DRN-3558092
The complaint
Mr T complains Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) unfairly registered a default on his 
credit file. 
What happened
 Mr T says due to personal issues in October 2019 he missed a payment to his loan account, 
and this was paid the following month which was allocated by Tesco for the previous 
months missed payment. Mr T says from December 2019 until February 2020 he met his 
monthly payments on time. Mr T says in mid-April 2020, following receipt of a letter from 
Tesco demanding the full repayment of his loan, he telephoned them, and a Covid payment 
holiday was agreed for three months. Mr T says he then noticed he had a default registered 
on his credit file and when he queried this, Tesco said it shouldnt have approved the 
payment holiday in April 2020 as it had already defaulted his loan account. 
Mr T says Tesco have refused to remove the default on his credit file, despite the fact he 
hadnt received any formal notifications or attempts to contact him, to advise him of the 
actions it intended taking. Mr T wants Tesco to remove the default notice from his credit file.
Tesco says it issued various notices to Mr T regarding the arrears on his loan account, and 
made many attempts to contact him by telephone, but understand Mr T had moved without 
telling them and placed a block on his phone preventing any calls going through. Tesco 
accept it shouldnt have told Mr T a Covid payment holiday would be agreed, and when he 
called it should have been clearer about the default status of his loan account. Tescos says 
it has paid Mr T £50 for the confusion it caused here but feel it has done nothing wrong and 
have correctly registered a default on Mr Ts credit file, in line with its obligations. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Tesco provided evidence to show it had attempted on numerous occasions 
to telephone Mr T and additionally it had issued various letters regarding the arrears on Mr 
Ts loan account. The investigator accepted Tesco should have explained to Mr T, that his 
account was in default and any payment holiday wouldnt alter that. The investigator says 
because the loan wasnt cleared in line with the termination notice, Tesco had acted fairly 
when it registered a default on Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand Mr T had gone through a difficult time during the Covid pandemic and that 
must have been upsetting for him. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tescos 
acted fairly when it registered a default against Mr Ts credit file in April 2020. 
The first thing to say here is I have to take into account this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both customers and businesses alike.
Mr Ts complaint centres around the fact Tesco registered a default on his credit file and he 
was unaware this was going to happen. Mr T says in fact Tesco, the very same month, 
agreed to a Covid payment holiday on his loan account and never mentioned the default to 
him when he telephoned them. 
Tesco have told this service while it accepts its agent incorrectly put forward a request for a 
Covid payment holiday, rather than informing Mr T he was in default, it had compensated 
him for that error, but that didnt alter the fact it had correctly defaulted him earlier in April 
2020. 
From the information I have seen its clear that leading up to the default notice being issued, 
Tesco had made attempts to contact Mr T by letter and telephone calls and I accept that 
even though Mr T says he never received the default or arrears letters, I cant hold Tesco 
responsible for that. I say this because even though delays in the postal system where 
common place at this time, it appears Mr T wasnt permanently residing at the address 
Tesco held on file for him, but it was for him to let Tesco know of any changes to that. Its 
also worth saying it remains Mr Ts responsibility to ensure his monthly loan payments are 
made on time.
Where I do have an issue is around the timing of the default being registered on Mr Ts credit 
file. From Mr Ts loan account bank statements provided to this service, it shows at the time 
the default notice was issued, in early March 2020, Mr T was two months in arrears. So even 
though its fair to say Mr T was in arrears, I have to consider whether Tesco acted fairly by 
registering a default on his credit file in April 2020, and Im not persuaded it did. 
I say this because the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who provide guidance to the 
financial service industry, suggest a default in normal circumstance wouldnt be expected to 
be registered with credit reference agencies, until after say three to six months payments 
had been missed by the borrower. But here, Mr T had missed two monthly loan payments at 
the time the default was registered. Its fair to say here, these werent normal circumstances 
and with that in mind, although accepting this was only guidance and further guidance wasnt 
expected by banks from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) until later that month, it does 
seem to me registering a default after only two missed payments (not concurrently) was a 
little hasty.  
Its worth mentioning that Tesco had previously been rather quick to take action, when it 
previously issued an arrears letter to Mr T on 2 December 2019, during the time it says it 
was chasing him, that letter was issued even though the direct debit was collected that very 
day, the only day it could have been collected here, as the due date was the day before on a 
Sunday. This letter suggested Mr T was two months in arrears, when in fact it was really only 
one month. So, its reasonable to say Tesco had been quick to issue arrears letters without 
fully considering the full situation here  I am satisfied that was also the case when it later 
issued the default letter, for the reasons I have already given. 
As far as the Covid payment holiday is concerned, I have listened to the telephone call in 
mid-April 2020 and its clear Mr T is being put forward for a Covid payment holiday by the 
agent, even though it may not have been appropriate. That said its reasonable to say Mr T 
left that call believing a three month Covid payment holiday had been put forward and importantly he was told by the agent his account had been put on hold, meaning he would 
get no phone calls or texts, so when no further communication was received from Tesco that 
wouldnt have been unexpected. Additionally, I cant see Tesco ever collected any direct 
debit loan payments between April and June 2020, so despite what it says here it looks as 
though a payment holiday had been agreed. 
Having said that, this is post the complaint point Mr T raises, as the default notice had 
already been issued by the time Mr T telephoned Tesco, in mid-April 2020, and Tesco had 
registered it with the credit reference agencies. What is worth saying is Mr T did offer during 
that phone call, to pay off the arrears, but it was suggested by the agent he was able to wait 
given the payment holiday was being put in place, which again wasnt the best advice to 
have given Mr T in the circumstances  which Tesco have accepted.  
Its reasonable to say this isnt a straightforward situation and while accepting Tesco had 
technically acted within its rights, I would like to think bearing in mind the Covid pandemic 
was unfolding and understanding the general guidance when registering defaults, given the 
impact it could have potentially, Tesco could have shown a little more forbearance here.
It follows, I propose the fair compromise would be for Tesco to remove the default marker on 
Mr Ts credit file and simply mark missed/late payments for October 2019 and March 2020 
and to accept it had agreed a payment holiday during April to June 2020, even if it had made 
an error in doing so. Its reasonable to assume if a Covid payment holiday hadnt been 
agreed, Tesco would have in all likelihood agreed some reduced payment plan for those 
three months in any event. 
With that in mind, I dont support Mr Ts argument the default was the sole reason why he 
wasnt able to obtain credit elsewhere, I say this as missed payments would have shown on 
his credit file leading up to the default in any event. Its also worth saying lenders look at a 
full range of criteria before deciding whether it can lend or not and wouldnt solely rely on 
credit file markers to make a lending decision.
That said, I dont propose any compensation payment here, taking into account Mr T also 
could have done more to have kept Tesco informed of his financial position, just simply his 
credit file is amended as proposed.
While Tesco will be disappointed with my provisional decision I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here. 
Both Tesco and Mr T responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. Tesco felt this service wasnt being consistent with its 
approach regarding the guidance provided by the ICO and a default against Mr T, was 
inevitable here and it is required to accurately report such defaults.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr T and Tesco until 22 June 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mr T has accepted my provisional decision, but Tesco didnt and have made additional 
comments for me to consider.
The first thing to say is, I do accept that it is only guidance provided by the ICO as to when 
its appropriate to register a default on a consumers credit file and not a rule. But here I have 
to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint, along with relevant guidance too. Tesco is free to exercise its discretion in these matters and 
sometimes doing so will help customers. But in the individual circumstances here, I dont 
think this led to a fair outcome for Mr T.
As I said in my provisional decision, while there were two missed payments recorded in 
October 2019 and March 2020, five months apart, its not clear, given the backdrop of the 
Covid pandemic, why Tesco felt it was the time to register the default and use its discretion 
on the guidance the ICO offered. Its reasonable to say if there was a time to consider some 
extra forbearance or flexibility it was then, especially given the impact such a default may 
have going forward. So, I remain of the opinion that Tesco could have exercised a little more 
forbearance, in the individual circumstances here. 
Tesco have suggested that Mr T would have always been defaulted at some point, as he 
was unable to pay the account for the following three months from the default notice it 
issued. I understand what Tesco are saying, but here I am satisfied the reason why Mr T 
didnt make those three payments from April 2020 to June 2020, was because he was told a 
Covid payment holiday had been agreed for that period, even if Tesco had made an error in 
telling Mr T that.  
To emphasise this point, at the time the payment holiday was confirmed to Mr T hed offered 
to pay the two months arrears, but was told not to, given what was being put in place. Had 
he have paid the arrears at this time, then this would have meant that the account was 
brought back in order. It was only Tescos advice which meant he didnt do that, rather than 
him not being able to pay. When looking at the loan account statements, these also show 
that in July 2020 Mr T made an additional payment and then met his monthly payments 
thereafter without issue. I can also see Mr T, in November 2020, went on to make up the 
sum of the Covid payment holiday, Tesco inadvertently agreed to. 
With that in mind Im not persuaded by Tescos argument the default was inevitable, nor do I 
think the outcome I have proposed is masking the true management of the account  after 
all I have agreed the missed payment markers should remain on Mr Ts credit file for 
October 2019 and March 2020, to reflect that.
While Tesco may not agree, and having considered its comments, I am satisfied my 
provisional decision was a fair outcome and I see no reason to change or add to it. 
Putting things right
I instruct Tesco Personal Finance plc to remove the default marker on Mr Ts credit file and 
simply mark missed/late payments for October 2019 and March 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Tesco Personal Finance plc to remove the default marker on Mr Ts credit file and 
simply mark missed/late payments for October 2019 and March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman