DRN-3522705
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible to have 
agreed to lend to her.
What happened
MML agreed five loans for Ms L between 2015 and 2018. Some of the information MML 
provided is shown in the table below (all figures rounded to the nearest pound). Some of 
the capital borrowed for the last four loans was used to repay the previous one.
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repayable
1 26/09/2015 05/08/2016 £2,000 £238 12 £2,852
2 05/08/2016 16/03/2017 £3,581 £284 24 £6,811
3 16/03/2017 27/09/2017 £5,000 £284 24 £10,211
4 27/09/2017 09/04/2018 £5,917 £336 36 £12,084
5 09/04/2018 01/10/2021 £6,522 £335 48 £16,065
These were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Ms L 
provided MML with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Ms L didnt make her loan 
repayments MML could potentially recoup any losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
When Ms L couldnt meet her repayments for her final loan, MML recovered her car, sold 
it, and offset the sale proceeds against the amount she owed.
Ms L says that MML didnt look into her finances properly before lending to her. She 
says the first loan was affordable but the rest werent. Ms L explained that she had 
personal and financial difficulties throughout the time she borrowed from MML and didnt 
have the capacity to make decisions on her finances. Ms L also told us that she has 
several children and was left without the means to transport them to school when her car 
was taken.
MML didnt agree that it had been irresponsible in lending to Ms L. It says that it carried 
out an affordability assessment for each loan and found them to be affordable for her. It 
says Ms L made her payments on time, apart from when she had a change in her 
circumstances after taking out her final loan. Due to a lack of payment and contact her 
car was repossessed and the proceeds applied to the loan. MML offered a payment of 
£675 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve her complaint.
Ms L declined this offer and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened when each of Ms Ls loans were agreed. They found that MML 
hadnt carried out proportionate affordability checks and, had it done so, would have 
learnt that Ms L would not be able to afford the repayments for her second and 
subsequent loans. Our investigator recommended that MML refund all payments Ms L 
made (including what MML received for her car) above the capital she borrowed on 
loans 2 to 5 inclusive, along with compensatory interest.
MML considered our investigators recommendations alongside Ms Ls bank statements 
from the time, which wed provided. It accepted that there was a need to carry out further 
checks on Ms Ls ability to sustain repayments towards her final loan (loan 5 in the 
above table) and so it said it would be willing to provide redress for this loan.
MML also said Whilst we appreciate the bank statements you have been provided show 
a poor financial situation, the information MML obtained at the time of the lending would 
not have led to MML asking the customer for further information, especially given the 
fact it appeared that Ms Ls position was improving when reviewing her credit file. We 
therefore dont believe that a further assessment of Ms Ls bank statements was 
necessary at the time of lending.
MML asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve and it 
came to me. As it seemed the first and last loans were no longer in dispute, I focused my 
decision on what happened when Ms L applied for loans 2, 3 and 4. I found that MML 
was irresponsible when it agreed these loans for her. I sent out a provisional decision on 
13 May 2022 explaining my findings and proposing that MML compensates Ms L for 
lending to her on these occasions. I included compensation for loan 5 in my proposals 
as MML had accepted that there was a need to carry out further checks when Ms L 
applied for her final loan. I also included an amount of £400 to compensate Ms L for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced when MML recovered and sold her car. 
I allowed both parties two weeks to respond to my provisional conclusions. Ms L has 
accepted these. MML acknowledged my decision and didnt provide any further 
comment or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter again and having received no further comments or new 
information to consider from either party, Ive found no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions. I will set out my reasons again in this final decision.
As Id said in my provisional decision, MML will be familiar with the regulations in place 
at the time so I will summarise its main obligations. MML needed to check that Ms L 
could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before agreeing each loan. It needed to 
check that she could meet her repayments out of her usual means without experiencing 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences, for example while meeting her existing 
commitments and without having to borrow or realise assets. The necessary checks 
needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (its type, amount, term etc.) and 
Ms Ls particular circumstances. 
The overarching requirement was that MML needed to pay due regard to Ms Ls 
interests and treat her fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G 
gave an example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with 
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did MML complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ls applications to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did MML 
make fair lending decisions? 
As shown in the above table, Ms L took out her first loan with MML in September 2015. I 
understand from its customer contact records that Ms L had enquired about borrowing 
again in January 2016 but was told it was too soon after her previous loan. Ms L was 
later declined for a loan in March. When Ms L applied again for a loan in August 2016, 
she gave her income as £1,866 and provided proof of this by way of benefit letters 
confirming her awards. Ms L said her monthly expenses came to £1,417 which included 
£426 of existing debt repayments (excluding her first MML loan).
MML says that it checked Ms Ls credit file and provided a copy. This shows several 
defaulted accounts, including a utility account, and three county court judgements. MML 
says that Ms Ls credit file showed that her finances had improved since it had last 
checked it (about a year prior when shed applied for her first loan). I can see that Ms L 
was making payments to some debts, but shed incurred one of her county court 
judgements in the intervening months. Ive also noted that she was up to the maximum 
of £850 on her main current account overdraft and had been at this level for about two 
years. So while MML might consider that Ms Ls credit file showed an improving picture, 
I think it shows that Ms L was having ongoing difficulties managing her money.
MML says it discussed Ms Ls debts with her in detail and understood that two of the 
defaulted accounts had been fully repaid. MML estimated that Ms L would still continue 
to spend £266 a month on meeting her existing credit obligations which, including the 
repayment for this loan would amount to about a third (30%) of her income. Ms L told 
MML that her husband paid the rent, council tax, insurance and telephone/internet costs 
and contributed to others. This isnt an implausible or unusual situation, but I note MML 
had no estimate of these costs which Ms L was relying on someone else to pay. The 
regulations stated that it wasnt generally sufficient for a lender to rely solely on what the 
customer said about their means in its assessment.
I appreciate that Ms L had met her repayments for her first loan. However, thinking about 
Ms Ls existing debts and how she was managing these, the contact MML had with Ms L 
regarding further borrowing and the additional cost of a new secured loan with a term of 
two years, Ive found that MML needed to do more here to reasonably check that Ms L 
would be able to meet her repayments over the loan term.
As mentioned, Ms L has provided her bank account statements and we have shared 
these with MML, whove acknowledge that they show a poor financial situation. It seems 
to me most of the household expenses were being paid from Ms Ls sole account 
(including rent, council tax and insurances) and, while there were transfers in from her 
joint account, as much was transferred out again. Ms L incurred bank charges each 
month for returned direct debits and unplanned overdraft usage. Examples of returned 
direct debits include those for insurance and car tax payments, tv licence and media 
bills. I dont think MML would have agreed another loan for Ms L under these 
circumstances and so I consider it was irresponsible to have done so.
MML agreed a third loan for Ms L some seven months later in March 2017, and a fourth 
about six months later that September. As the summary table shows, these were for 
£5,000 and £5,917 taken over two and three years respectively.
By March 2017 Ms L had been indebted to MML for almost 18 months. Agreeing another 
loan for her meant she would owe more than she did at the start and potentially be 
indebted for another two years. I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate 
for MML to have taken steps to ensure that it had a correct and complete picture about Ms Ls finances before continuing to lend to her. MMLs customer records note that 
Ms Ls income hadnt changed in that time, her bank statements confirm this and also 
confirm that her expenses continued to be more than MML had accounted for. As with 
the previous loan, I think a proportionate check would have revealed that Ms L was 
unlikely to be able to meet her repayments without difficulty, and so I think MML was 
irresponsible when it agreed to lend to her a third time.
In April 2017, Ms L told MML that she and her husband had split up. Shes explained to 
us that the relationship had a serious impact on her health and let me say at this point 
that Im sorry things have been so difficult for her. The customer notes record that Ms L 
struggled to make her repayments for her third loan and that she had told MML her 
benefits would increase following a reassessment. I can see from Ms Ls bank 
statements that this happened with a back payment in May 2017, which she used to pay 
her arrears with MML and make a large payment to a housing association and a credit 
card provider.
So, when Ms L applied for her fourth loan in September 2017, MML knew that her 
circumstances had changed. The bank statements show that Ms L had more income 
than shed had at the time of previous applications yet these payments still werent 
enough to take her out of her overdraft. Ms L had been in debt to MML for two years at 
that point and agreeing almost £6,000 for her potentially committed her to remaining 
indebted to it for a further three years. Given her circumstances and the circumstances 
of this loan, I think MML treated Ms L unfairly when it agreed to lend to her again. As it 
happened, Ms L once again refinanced her debt with MML after six months, eventually 
losing her car to clear the outstanding balance.
Ive also considered what happened when Ms L had problems meeting her repayments 
and MML collected her car. MML says that it did so because Ms L wasnt meeting her 
repayments and wasnt contactable. Ms L says that she had a 9-seater car to 
accommodate her large family and bring her children to school. She says she needed 
help from a neighbour to transport them and that this had a serious impact on her mental 
health.
Having considered this point carefully, I dont have enough information to find that MML 
treated Ms L unfairly after it agreed her fifth loan when she couldnt meet her 
repayments. However, MML has accepted that it shouldnt have agreed a fifth loan for 
Ms L and she lost her car as a consequence of this lending decision. I think that Ms L 
suffered distress and inconvenience when her car was recovered and she had to make 
alternative transport arrangements for her family. As set out on our website, an award of 
over £300 and up to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused 
considerable upset and worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to 
sort out, typically over weeks or months. I think that an award in this range would be 
appropriate here.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, MML shouldnt have agreed to loans 2, 3 or 4 for Ms L and it 
has agreed to provide redress for the fifth loan. I think its fair that Ms L repays the 
capital she borrowed for these loans as shes had the use of this. However, I dont think 
she should be liable for any more than the capital she borrowed, in other words she 
shouldnt be liable for interest payments or charges on the amounts she borrowed, for 
loans 2, 3, 4 or 5 or have her credit record adversely impacted.
MML needs to compensate Ms L for these overpayments, which in this case includes 
money that came from the sale of her car. This was an asset which Ms L likely needed to replace and our usual approach is that she should be compensated for this loss, 
which potentially could have been greater than the price MML obtained for it. An 
estimation of the market value of Ms Ls car at that time put it as less than the value 
MML obtained for it and so in this case I think the gross proceeds of the sale, which I 
understand to be £8,460, is the appropriate value to consider.
In order to put things right for Ms L, MML needs to:
a) Refund to Ms L all payments she made above the original capital 
amounts she borrowed for loans 2, 3, 4 and 5; and
b) Consider that the payments Ms L made include the gross proceeds from the 
sale of her car; and
c) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
d) Pay Ms L an amount of £400 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced when it recovered and sold her car; 
and
e) Remove any adverse information about these loans from Ms Ls credit file; and
f) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Ms Ls car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Ls complaint about Mobile Money Limited 
in part and require it to put things right for her as outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman