DRN-3797644
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the valuation she was provided with by her motor insurer, 
esure Insurance Limited (esure) after her car was declared a total loss.
 
All references to esure include its agents. 
What happened
Miss G was involved in an accident which rendered her car a total loss. She made a claim 
on her policy with esure.
Miss G said esure made her two offers for the total loss value of her car but she refused both 
as they were below what it would cost her to get a like for like replacement in the current 
market. 
Miss G complained to esure who said it had valued her car in line with the process used by 
our organisation and relied on motor trade guides in doing so. It said the guides provided 
valuations between £4,255 and £5,220 and that the average value was £4,663. It said that it 
felt its valuation of £4,773 was fair and reasonable. 
Miss G wasnt happy with esures response and complained to us. She said esure offered 
her £2,500 less than what it will cost her to replace what was a perfectly good car and said 
that an on paper valuation did not reflect the actual current purchase price of a like for like 
replacement. She said she would like a reasonable settlement figure for her car that will 
allow her to purchase a like for like replacement in the current market.
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but he didnt think esures valuation was 
unfair or unreasonable and that it was within the range of values provided by the trade 
guides. 
Miss G didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said it cost her £3,227 
more than what esure offered to buy a like for like replacement. She added that the 
replacement car is currently undergoing repairs due to it not being fit for purpose at that 
price. She said she didnt understand how the market value that esures policy terms refer 
to could be anything other than the true replacement cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the same reasons provided by 
our Investigator. I know Miss G will be disappointed with this. I can see that she has invested 
a lot of time and effort in bringing her complaint to esure and to us. Nevertheless, we do 
have an established approach when it comes to complaints similar to Miss Gs and, in this 
case I think that, on the whole, esure has acted in line with it. 
Miss Gs policy says that esure will pay the market value i.e. the value the insured could 
reasonably be expected to sell their car for on the open market immediately before their 
accident. It goes on to say that in doing so it will rely on valuations obtained in motor-trade 
guides and that its assessment of the value will be based on cars of the same make and 
model which are of similar age, condition and mileage.
Its not my role to decide what the value of the car is but to decide whether esure made an 
offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. Assessing the 
value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations given in 
motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. And I must emphasise that I will only direct a business to increase its 
valuation if I consider that it is unfair.
esure used the valuations it obtained from four guides. These were between £4,255 and 
£5,220. I wouldnt consider any of the valuations to be an outlier. esures offer of £4,773 is 
within the range provided by those valuations and as esure pointed out, it is above the 
average. Our service has access to the same and to some additional trade guides. Our 
Investigator has looked at the valuations provided by all the guides and the range he 
obtained was between £4,425 and £5,220. Again, I didnt consider any of the valuations to 
be an outlier. 
 
So, from what Ive seen, I consider esures offer of £4,773 to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances as it is within the range of values provided by the guides.
Miss G has provided copies of adverts for similar cars which I have looked at. The values for 
cars of the same make and model were higher than esures offer. So I can see why Miss G 
feels that esures offer is low. Nevertheless, we dont tend to find adverts as persuasive as 
the motor guides and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will 
actually sell for from the advert; and a vehicle may be sold for less than the advertised price 
especially with private sales. 
Miss G said that she has bought a replacement car and that it cost £3,227 more than what 
esure has offered her. Without knowing the exact specifications it is hard for me to make a 
comparison. In any event, as I said above the terms of the policy state that esure will pay the 
market value/the price the insured could reasonably be expected to sell their car for on the 
open market and most of the time we feel that a fair valuation can be obtained by relying on 
the trade guides. And though I appreciate the point Miss G is trying to make here, the policy 
doesnt say that the insurer will pay the cost of the insureds replacement car. 
Miss G has mentioned that her premium has increased and also said that she was not at 
fault for the accident and that esure isnt aware of this and hasnt yet made contact with the 
third-party insurer. These are issues she must raise with esure first, and if she is unhappy 
with its response she can complain to us. 
Given all of this, I am satisfied that esure has looked to value the car in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay the market value in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, 
although I know Miss G will be disappointed with my decision I am not upholding her 
complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman