DRN-3475534
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because Europ Assistance S.A hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
trip under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought flights in July 2020. Single trip travel insurance policies, provided by
Europ Assistance and covering Mr and Mrs R, were bought through the same website on the
same day. Europ Assistance told us, although Mr and Mrs R had separate insurance
certificates, if one party has to cancel a trip then it would consider the claim for everyone
who is included on the same booking. So, Ive therefore referred to Mr and Mrs Rs policies
as one policy throughout this decision.
When the flights and insurance were purchased, Mr and Mrs Rs intended destination was
on the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) list of countries which
were exempt from advice against all but essential travel due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19.
However, the FCDO subsequently removed Mr and Mrs Rs intended destination from the
list of exempted countries. This meant Mr and Mrs R would need to quarantine on their
return to the UK. Mr and Mrs R said theyd be unable to quarantine due to work
commitments. They therefore didnt travel as planned and they made a claim for the cost of
their flights under their policy with Europ Assistance.
Europ Assistance said Mr and Mrs Rs policy didnt cover claims arising from government
recommendations or orders. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to the attention
of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Mr and
Mrs Rs claim was covered under their policy because they hadnt cancelled their trip for one
of the listed, insured reasons set out in the terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree 
with our investigators opinion, so their complaint was referred to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in April 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I entirely understand Mr and Mrs Rs reason for cancelling their trip. I appreciate that, when
they booked their flights, they wouldnt have needed to quarantine on their return from their
intended destination to the UK under the FCDO travel advice in place at that time. FCDO
travel advice subsequently changed, which was outside of Mr and Mrs Rs control.
However, insurance policies dont cover every situation and an insurer is entitled to decide
what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a policy premium. At
the time this insurance policy was purchased, FCDO travel advice relating to the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 had been in place for more than four months in one
form or another, and it was up to Mr and Mrs R to make sure they had a policy in place
which met their needs.
Europ Assistances obligations to Mr and Mrs R under its contract with them are limited by
the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy terms and conditions.
These say, at page 11 under the heading Section A Cancellation and Curtailment, that
Europ Assistance will pay for certain costs of a trip is cancelled for one of the following listed,
insured reasons:
a. Death, serious injury or illness during the period of insurance of:
you, or
a person you are travelling with, or
a relative, or
a close business associate who lives
in your country of residence, or
a friend or relative who lives abroad, with whom you were staying.
b. You, or the person you are travelling with:
being required in your country of residence for jury service or as a witness in a 
court of law, or
being placed under compulsory quarantine, or
being required to be present by the police, as a result of your, or their home or
usual place of business in your country of residence suffering a burglary within 
seven days before the start of your trip
suffering accidental damage to your, or their home that renders the home
uninhabitable, within seven days before the start of your trip.
being made redundant, providing you qualify for redundancy payment under 
current redundancy legislation
being posted overseas or receiving emergency requirements of duty in the Armed
Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services.
For the avoidance of doubt, although Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides cancellation cover in
the event of being placed under compulsory quarantine, I dont think I can fairly say this
was the reason why they didnt go on their trip. Mr and Mrs R would need to have
quarantined on their return to the UK due to a change in FCDO travel advice and I think this
change in FCDO travel advice is the reason why Mr and Mrs Rs trip was cancelled. A
change in FCDO travel advice isnt a listed, insured reason for making a cancellation claim
under Mr and Mrs Rs policy. So, I dont think their claim is covered under the Cancellation
and Curtailment section of cover. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs
Rs insurance policy, but I dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the
circumstances they found themselves in.
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict interpretation of
the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me
to ask Europ Assistance to do so here.
This is because Mr and Mrs Rs policy also contain a number of different exclusions which I
think are relevant to their claim. The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Rs policy says
Europ Assistance will not pay for any claims arising directly or indirectly from the following:any order or recommendation issued by a government, public or local authority
In addition, the general exclusions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy say their insurance doesnt cover
the following:
k. prohibitive regulations by the government of any country 
n. epidemics or infectious diseases;
infectious diseases caused by a virus belonging to the coronavirus family such as
SARS and coronavirus 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided with this policy set outs a
summary of restrictions on the cover offered. These include infectious diseases, including
Covid-19.
Im satisfied that government restrictions in the UK due to Covid-19 led to the cancellation of
Mr and Mrs Rs trip. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of their trip not covered as
a listed, insured event under their policy, I think the exclusions quoted above apply to the
circumstances of their claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms
and conditions of their policy and I dont think Europ Assistance acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining their claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs R said they couldnt get through to Europ Assistance on the
telephone when FCDO advice changed, and that they received no response to an email they
sent querying their cover. But I think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy are
clear about what is and isnt covered. And, based on what Mr and Mrs R have told us
previously, I cant fairly say its likely theyd have acted any differently if theyd been able to
speak to Europ Assistance before cancelling their trip.
So, overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that Europ Assistance should do anything
more.
Europ Assistance accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr 
and Mrs R responded to my provisional decision and said, if theyd been able to get in 
contact with Europ Assistance or if Europ Assistance had replied to their email, theyd have 
changed their flights to a later date and therefore wouldnt have lost their money.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Rs comments, and I agree it might have been helpful if 
theyd been able to get in touch with and/or had received a response from Europ Assistance. 
But, in making an independent and impartial decision, I must be fair not only to Mr and Mrs 
R, but also to Europ Assistance. I cant fairly direct Europ Assistance to pay Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim based on any failings in this regard, in circumstances where I think Mr and Mrs Rs 
policy terms and conditions are clear about the cover which is and is not provided. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling about the matter, and I understand theyll 
likely be very disappointed, but this means I wont be changing my provisional decision.   My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman