DRN-1989985
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the service they experienced when using a roadside 
assistance policy they have with U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator for these reasons:
Its clear that Green Flag didnt provide the service they should have. The call out 
shouldve been marked as a priority due to the members of Mr and Mrs As family 
who were travelling with them. Green Flag have apologised for this and paid £100 in 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs A phoned Green Flag several times. Each time they were given an 
estimated time for a technician, but they didnt arrive at that time. This was upsetting 
as time went on especially as this was in the evening. Im glad to see that Green Flag 
arranged a taxi so that some of the people travelling didnt have to wait in the car.
Green Flag made Mr and Mrs A aware in the first telephone call that there would be 
delays due to a large arts festival taking place near where they broke down. Because 
of this there were always going to be delays. Green Flag also explained that they had 
to deal with some police incidents which caused further delays. These delays are out 
of their control.
Mr and Mrs A say that Green Flag lied to them about the waiting times when they 
called. But I dont think thats the case. Because of the delays outside their control 
Green Flag thought the technician would arrive sooner, but unfortunately that wasnt 
the case. Looking at what happened I think it was a changing situation. Green Flag 
didnt expect the waiting time to be so long, so each update was with an estimate 
using the best of their knowledge at the time.
Even if Green Flag marked the call out as a priority, as they should have, there still 
wouldve been delays. I cant say how long, but looking at the evidence it seems it 
would still have taken quite some time for the technician to arrive.
I understand why Mr and Mrs A feel let down with the service they received. Green 
Flag have apologised for what happened and paid £100 for the trouble. Looking at all 
the circumstances I think this is a fair and reasonable amount so wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, by decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman