DRN-3946054
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society allowed his grandfather to open a Junior
ISA (JISA) on his behalf.
Mr L, who is a child, is represented here by his mother, whom Ill refer to as Mrs R.
What happened
In January 2013, Mr Ls grandfather visited a Nationwide branch and opened a JISA in the
name of Mr L. In doing so, Mr Ls grandfather met the criteria to be able to open a JISA for
Mr L, including that he presented a copy of Mr Ls birth certificate to Nationwide and self-
declared that he held parental responsibility for Mr L.
In 2021, Mrs R noticed that the account Mr Ls grandfather had opened for her son was a
JISA, and not a standard savings account as should have been the case. Mrs R contacted
Nationwide about this as she was concerned that the terms of the JISA meant that money
couldnt be withdrawn from the account until Mr L reached the age of 18 and took
possession of the account himself, whereas it was intended that the money saved in the
account would be used for Mr Ls benefit before he reached the age of 18.
Nationwide confirmed that Mrs Rs concerns were accurate, and that no money could be
withdrawn from the JISA before Mr L was 18. Mrs R wasnt happy about this, and she felt
that Nationwide should never have allowed Mr Ls grandfather to open the JISA as hed
never held the parental responsibility for Mr L needed to do so. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at this complaint. But they felt that theyd opened the JISA in good faith
and reiterated that Mr Ls grandfather had self-declared to Nationwide that he did hold the
parental responsibility required. Nationwide also confirmed that the terms of the JISA meant
that no money could be withdrawn from the account until Mr L reached the age of 18, and
they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she
referred this complaint to this service on Mr Ls behalf.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2023 as follows:
I dont feel that Nationwide acted unfairly when opening the JISA at Mr Ls 
grandfathers request. This is because Im satisfied that Mr L presented himself to
Nationwide as being eligible to open the JISA on Mr Ls behalf, including that Mr Ls
grandfather provided a copy of Mr Ls birth certificate to Nationwide and also self-
declared to Nationwide that he held the parental responsibility to allow him to open 
the JISA for Mr L as he was requesting.
But Mr Ls grandfather didnt in fact hold the parental responsibility for Mr L that was 
required for him to be able to open the JISA. Instead, Mrs R held that requisite 
parental responsibility. This means that  while Im satisfied that Nationwide acted in 
good faith and didnt do anything wrong by allowing the JISA to be opened, on the 
basis of the information they were presented with  in real terms, the JISA should 
never have been opened.
As such, my provisional decision here is that Nationwide should void this account as 
if it were never opened and return the sum of all deposits made into the account to 
Mr L. Its my understanding that three deposits were made into the JISA since it was 
opened in 2013, to a total of £9,124.59  which is the amount Im provisionally 
instructing Nationwide to send to Mr L after voiding the JISA.
Ive considered whether Nationwide should also be instructed to send Mr L the 
interest thats accrued within the account since its inception, which presently totals 
£1,986.62. But because my instruction here is that Nationwide must void the account 
as if it had never been opened, I dont feel that Mr L should receive this interest 
amount. And this is because if the account had never been opened, the interest 
resultant from that account would never have accrued.
Mrs R feels that the JISA was only opened because of Nationwides mistake in 
allowing Mr Ls grandfather to open it. Consequently, Mrs R also feels that Mr L 
should receive either the interest thats accrued in the JISA or the amount of interest 
the deposits made to the JISA could have earned in a different savings account 
during the time that the JISA was open.
Im not convinced by Mrs Rs position here, and this is because, as explained, I dont 
feel that Nationwide did anything wrong in opening the JISA as they did  given the 
information and the declaration presented to them by Mr Ls grandfather.
I also feel that is should be noted that the status of the account as a JISA has been 
visible and apparent to Mr Ls grandfather since the account was opened in 2013, 
including when all three of the deposits into the account were made. And while Mrs R 
may argue that she didnt have visibility of the account, and so shouldnt herself be 
considered at fault for not recognising that the account was a JISA sooner, Im 
satisfied that it's similarly the case that Nationwide shouldnt be considered as being 
at fault here for opening the JISA as they did.
As such, if it is the case that Mrs R would like the JISA to be voided, which would 
allow Mr L access to the money deposited into it, then Im happy to instruct 
Nationwide to do this. But only on the proviso that it would be the sum of the deposit 
amounts only that would be sent to Mr L, and not the interest thats been earned 
within the JISA to date, as explained above.
If Mrs R understandably doesnt want Mr L to lose the interest amount thats accrued, 
then I feel the only fair option is for the JISA to remain in place, with the restrictions 
on withdrawals about which Mrs R now complains.
I dont feel it would be fair to instruct Nationwide to void the JISA and send money to 
Mr L inclusive of both the original deposits and the interest thats accrued over time.This is because Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt act unfairly by opening the JISA, 
and because given that no withdrawals are permitted from the JISA until Mr L 
reaches the age of 18, the only way to allow Mr L access to the deposited money 
before he reaches the age of 18 is to void the account as if it had never been opened 
 which would mean there would never have been an account within which interest 
could have accrued.
I accept that Mr L would lose the interest thats accrued within the JISA to date if the 
account is voided as provisionally instructed here, but I dont feel that Nationwide 
should fairly or reasonably be held accountable for this, as previously explained.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs R provided several comments for my 
consideration. Ive read and considered in full the further submissions provided by Mrs R, 
and I hope she wont find it discourteous that I wont be responding to every point shes 
raised in those submissions. Instead, Ill only be responding here to the points that I feel 
have a material bearing on my decision, which I feel is in keeping with the remit of this 
service as an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. 
I would also reiterate that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, and so it isnt 
within my remit here to declare whether Nationwide have or havent acted in a non-
regulatory or unlawful way. Instead, as alluded to above, the remit of this service is focussed 
on fairness of outcome from an impartial perspective. 
Mrs R began by agreeing with the position I reached in my provisional decision that the JISA 
should fairly be voided because the required conditions for its opening were not met, given 
that Mr Ls grandfather didnt have the requisite parental responsibility to open the JISA on 
Mr Ls behalf.
Mrs R then detailed the reasons why she continued to feel that Nationwide had acted 
negligently in allowing Mr Ls grandfather to open the account. These included that Mr Ls 
grandfather recalled being told by Nationwide branch staff at the point of opening the JISA 
that a JISA could be opened by a grandparent, as well as that Mr Ls grandfather highlighted 
to Nationwide shortly after the JISA was opened that he didnt in fact hold the requisite 
parental responsibility to have opened the account in the first instance  but that Nationwide 
then allowed the JISA to remain open and in place. 
In consideration of the first point described above  that Mr Ls grandfather was told by 
Nationwides staff when he opened the JISA that a grandparent could open that type of 
account  its notable and understandable that, in part because of the length of time thats 
elapsed since the JISA was opened in 2013, Nationwide havent been able to provide the 
recollections of their staff member who opened the JISA with Mr Ls grandfather. 
Ive taken Mr Ls grandfathers testimony into consideration. But I continue to feel that it is 
significant that the document signed by Mr Ls grandfather when the JISA was opened 
included that parental responsibility was required to open the JISA. And I find it difficult to 
reasonably hypothesise that the staff member that conducted the JISA opening wouldnt, in 
all likelihood, have known of this documented requirement, or that they would have 
specifically advised Mr Ls grandfather to the contrary.
It also remains that case that it was Mr Ls grandfathers responsibility to have read and 
understood the documents that he signed when opening the JISA - which included the 
statement that parental responsibility was required. Mrs R has explained that Mr Ls 
grandfather signed the account opening paperwork without reading and understanding it on 
the basis that he was incorrectly told by Nationwide that he was eligible to open the JISA. 
But if Mr Ls grandfather did sign the documents in such circumstances  which, as previously explained, is a hypothesis that I dont feel that I can reasonably and impartially 
agree with  I dont feel that this would have absolved Mr Ls grandfather of his responsibility 
to have read and understood the documents before he signed them.
Id like to reassure Mrs R that none of this is to say that I feel that the testimony provided by 
Mr Ls grandfather is incorrect here. But it is to say that I dont feel that I can reasonably and 
impartially instruct against Nationwide in the way that Mrs R would like, on the basis of Mr 
Ls grandfathers testimony, given the other points of consideration that I have to take into 
account here in my professional capacity as an ombudsman, as described above.
Mrs R has also explained how Mr Ls grandfather received a letter from Nationwide shortly 
after opening the JISA which asked Mr Ls grandfather to check the ISA declaration  which 
was repeated within the letter  at which time Mr Ls grandfather recognised that he didnt 
hold the requisite parental responsibility needed to open the JISA and following which Mr Ls 
grandfather went into Nationwide branch and informed Nationwide about this.
Mrs R has provided a photo of this letter, dated 15 January 2013, which shows a handwritten 
correction of the address that Nationwide should have held as residence for Mr L as well as 
an X and a No against the statement I have parental responsibility for the child.
From the impartial perspective as described previously, while I have no reason to doubt that 
Mr Ls grandfather did take this letter into branch as Mrs R has explained, I also have no 
reason to doubt the opposite position  that Nationwide werent appraised of the handwritten 
corrections on this letter  given that Nationwide didnt take the action that would be 
expected upon receipt of that letter and given that the presence of the handwritten 
comments on the letter at this time dont undisputedly confirm that these comments were 
provided to Nationwide in 2013.
However, Ive considered how I would feel about this aspect of this complaint if I were to 
accept that Mr Ls grandfather did make Nationwide aware that he didnt have the requisite 
parental responsibility to have opened the JISA during a visit to a Nationwide branch within 
the first few weeks of the account being opened. 
In this scenario, Mr Ls grandfather would have provided the information to Nationwide in 
branch, but for whatever reason Nationwide would then not have acted on this information 
so that the JISA remained open and so that Mr Ls residence address as held with 
Nationwide wasnt updated. 
I can appreciate how Mrs R might feel that the scenario described above should mean that 
Nationwide should be held responsible for the JISA remaining open on an invalid basis, and 
so should be asked to compensate Mr L accordingly for this. 
But I feel that if Mr Ls grandfather had recognised that he wasnt eligible to open the 
account, and if he had made Nationwide aware of this and hadnt had a response from 
Nationwide having done so, then I feel its reasonable to have expected Mr Ls grandfather 
to have followed up his initial recognition of this point and to have reconnected with 
Nationwide about it  especially given that the JISA then remained open and visible as a 
JISA for close to a decade before the present complaint about it was raised.  
This isnt to excuse the potential mistake that Nationwide may have made here. But it is to 
say that I feel that the non-correction of that mistake by Nationwide should reasonably have 
been recognised by Mr Ls grandfather in the many years that followed, and that therefore 
the responsibility for the continuing existence of the JISA should fairly be shared between 
Nationwide and Mr Ls grandfather  given that I feel that both parties may not have met 
responsibilities they should reasonably have been expected to meet in this scenario. Mrs R has also explained that Mr Ls grandfather had previously opened two other (non-
JISA) savings accounts for two other grandchildren. Given that these other accounts werent 
JISAs, he opening process and requirements for those other savings accounts would have 
been different, which I feel should have further confirmed to Mr Ls grandfather that this 
specific account may have been different to the other two accounts that hed previously 
opened, and so may have been subject to different account rules.
All of which means that I continue to feel that Nationwide shouldnt fairly or reasonably be 
held solely accountable for allowing Mr Ls grandfather to open the JISA or for it to have 
remained open. This is because, accepting the version of events put forwards by Mrs R, it 
remains the case that I feel that Mr Ls grandfather should have read and understood the 
nature of the account he was opening, and because if Nationwide then didnt act on Mr Ls 
grandfather telling them that he wasnt eligible to open the JISA that Mr Ls grandfather 
should bear some responsibility for the continuing existence of the JISA, given that he didnt 
follow up this point with Nationwide and given that the account subsequently remained open 
and visible to Mr Ls grandfather as a JISA for several years.
Ultimately, It also remains my position that this JISA should never have been opened, and 
so should fairly be voided as though it had never been opened  although as explained I 
dont feel that Nationwide should fairly be considered as being solely responsible for this.
As such, I feel that the sum of the deposits made into the JISA should be sent to Mr L, but 
without any of the interest that had accrued within the JISA during the time it has been open. 
As previously explained, this is because interest cant accrue on an account that doesnt 
exist, as would be the case if the JISA were to be voided as if it had never been opened. 
Mrs R has expressed her strong dissatisfaction at this point and is unhappy that Nationwide 
will potentially be allowed to keep the interest that has accrued within the JISA. Id like to 
confirm to Mrs R that in this scenario it wouldnt be the case that Nationwide would keep the 
interest as she believes, but rather that the interest will be voided out of existence at the time 
that the JISA itself is voided such that it was never opened. 
Mrs R is also unhappy with how Nationwide have handled this complaint and in how its 
taken so long to resolve. I can appreciate Mrs Rs frustration regarding this point. But its not 
within the remit of this service to consider a complaint point which is about how a business 
has handled a complaint  as this aspect of this complaint is  even where the overriding 
complaint is about a regulated financial matter.
Mrs R also feels that, in my provisional decision letter, my references to Mr Ls grandfather 
having self-declared that he had the requisite parental responsibility to open the JISA 
implied some deception on Mr Ls grandfathers part. I apologise if Mrs R felt this way and I 
can confirm that it wasnt my intent to make any such implication. Rather, I was simply 
referring to the fact that Mr Ls grandfather signed a declaration which included the 
statement that he did have the parental responsibility needed to open the JISA he was 
applying for on Mr Ls behalf.  
Finally, Mrs R has highlighted that its unusual for a person of Mr Ls grandfathers age to 
hold parental responsibility for a young child as Mr L was at that time. I can appreciate Mrs 
Rs position here. But while such a scenario may be unusual, it isnt impossible, and Im 
satisfied that Nationwide were presented with the documents and declarations required to 
allow Mr Ls grandfather to have opened the account. And I also feel that considerations of 
potential age discrimination may have arisen had Nationwide acted differently.  All of which means that my final decision here will be that I will be upholding this complaint 
on the limited basis explained above, whereby my instruction to Nationwide will be that they 
must void the JISA as if it had never been opened and send the sum-total of all deposits 
made into the account to Mr L, but that all interest accrued during the term of the JISA must 
be voided along with the JISA. This feels fair to me, for the reasons explained above.
 
If Mrs R, as Mr Ls representative, is unhappy with this outcome, Nationwide have indicated 
that they may be happy to allow the JISA to remain in place with parental responsibility being 
transferred to Mrs R. This would mean that the interest accrued on the JISA to date would 
be retained, but that the account would remain subject to the limitations about which Mrs R 
is presently unhappy. 
If Mrs R would prefer the JISA to remain in place moving forwards, she should formally not 
accept my final decision here  because if she does formally accept this decision then 
Nationwide will be formally bound by the instructions as stated below. 
I realise this may not be the outcome that Mrs R was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Nationwide must void the JISA as if it had never been opened and send the sum-total of all 
deposits made into the account to Mr L. 
All interest accrued during the term of the JISA must be voided along with the JISA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman