DRN-2486113
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs B complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a 
subsidence claim made under a buildings insurance policy. Any references to Ageas also 
include its agents. 
What happened
Miss T passed away in February 2017. Mr T and Mrs B are the executors of her estate. 
When her home was being valued for probate, it was identified the property was showing 
signs of subsidence. Mr T and Mrs B logged a claim with Ageas in June 2017. It arranged for 
its loss adjuster to inspect the property. 
After carrying out their inspection, the loss adjuster set out an initial timeline of expected 
events. They considered the most likely cause of the subsidence was a beech tree, but 
noted it was subject to a Tree Protection Order (TPO). They recommended a period of 
monitoring which continued over the next few months but expected to make an application to 
the Local Authority to remove the tree.
In January 2018, Mr T, who has been the lead executor in bringing the complaint, was 
starting to become concerned about the time taken to resolve the claim. He asked an 
engineer for their opinion, who suggested the property needed underpinning. This would 
mean the tree didnt need to be removed. Over the next few months, the loss adjuster and 
Mr Ts engineer continued to disagree about the best course of action. In May 2018, an 
independent arborists report reiterated the tree was the source of the subsidence. It 
recommended a root barrier as a solution.
In October 2018, Ageas said it was now suggesting a root barrier solution as a means to 
repair the damage, based on the advice of the arborist. It suggested this on the basis it didnt 
expect the application to the Local Authority to remove the tree to be successful. Mr Ts 
engineer disagreed and maintained their view underpinning the property was the best course 
of action.  
In early 2019, Mr T made a complaint, saying the claim was taking too long to resolve, and 
there was a lack of communication from both Ageas and the loss adjuster. Ageas 
acknowledged that in order to move things forward, it would be helpful to have a meeting at 
the property. This took place in early March. Mr T says in this meeting, the loss adjuster said 
one of the main reasons for pursuing the root barrier was because the removal of the tree 
may cause heave. Mr T remained unhappy, saying this was something his engineer had 
identified some time ago, and formed part of the reasoning for recommending underpinning. 
In April 2019, Ageas appeared to be considering three possible resolutions. The first was the 
root barrier, the second was underpinning the property and the third was considering a cash 
settlement for the diminution of market value. However, this changed in July 2019 when the 
arborist updated their advice, and recommended the tree be removed, saying the root barrier 
was not a viable option.  
In October 2019, Ageas applied for permission to remove the tree, as it thought this 
application was likely to be successful. In addition to this, Ageas arranged for an 
independent heave assessment to be carried out. The engineer concluded any heave the 
property might experience after the tree had been removed would likely only be apparent 
one to two years after the removal. However, the overall conclusion was that the engineer 
didnt consider the level of heave the property might experience would be significant. Mr Ts 
engineer disagreed with this and said heave would likely be experienced for several years. 
Mr T remained unhappy with how the claim had been handled and referred his complaint to 
this service. He said in order to put things right, he was looking for a financial settlement that 
covered any potential loss of rental income, the interest incurred on the equity release 
mortgage and compensation for the stress and inconvenience he and Mrs B had 
experienced. Mr T confirmed he and Mrs B had sold the property. But it had sold for 
somewhere between £75,000 to £100,000 less than it would have had been if the claim had 
been resolved, and he thought Ageas ought to cover this. 
Our investigator asked Ageas if it was prepared to make an offer to settle the claim. It said, 
as permission to remove the tree had subsequently been granted, it considered its liability 
was restricted to the cost it likely would have incurred in removing the tree, carrying out any 
damage to the property as a result and continued monitoring. Ageas said it was prepared to 
pay £21,161.89, less the policy excess of £1,000. This figure was calculated not knowing 
what the final repair costs would have been, so it took a midway point for the best- and 
worst-case scenario for the superstructure works required following the tree removal. 
Our investigator said this was a fair and reasonable offer but felt the insurer should waive the 
policy excess in recognition of the upset experienced, and interest accrued on the lifetime 
mortgage that could have been avoided. 
Ageas accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr T disagreed. He said the claim took too 
long to settle, and the payment offered didnt reflect the multiple changes of direction by 
Ageas, or the pressure he and Mrs B experienced from the equity release mortgage provider 
to settle the outstanding balance. As a result, this case has been passed to me. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T said he has two main areas of concern in respect of this complaint. He says Ageas 
delayed the resolution of the claim by completing two U-turns in respect of how to settle the 
claim. An in addition to this, he and Mrs B didnt have any choice but to sell the property in 
order to settle the outstanding balance owing on the equity release mortgage. 
Ill first consider what Mr T considers to be the U-turns. Mr T says the claim should have 
been resolved within six to nine months. He says he thought this timeframe reasonable, 
based on the guidance given to him by his engineer. Ive seen a letter sent by Ageas loss 
adjuster dated 23 July 2017, which indicated a much longer timeframe (potentially until 
March 2019) for the claim to be resolved than Mr T suggested. Mr T said he wasnt aware of 
this timeframe until July or August 2018. However, I dont see any reason to think this letter 
wasnt sent in July 2017. 
Subsidence claims, by their very nature, can take a long time to resolve because there is 
often a need for monitoring to be carried out. Its not unusual for this to be carried out over a 
12-month period to fully understand any pattern of movement. I understand why Mr T put 
weight on the advice given to him by his expert, I havent seen anything that suggests the timeframe indicated by the loss adjuster in 2017 was unreasonable in the circumstances. Im 
satisfied Ageas took reasonable steps early in the claim to give an indication as to how long 
it might take for the monitoring to be carried out and any works to be completed.   
In the first instance, Ageas considered the removal of the tree. This seems to me to be a 
reasonable starting point. However, the process of removing the tree was complicated by the 
TPO. The impact of the TPO was that any application to remove the tree was unlikely to be 
successful without a significant period of monitoring to support the application.
I dont think appointing the arborist was, in itself, the wrong course of action to take. Ageas 
was entitled to explore all options available to it in considering how best to carry out the 
necessary repairs to resolving the subsidence, especially against the background of the 
application to the Local Authority to remove the tree. However, the arborist later concluded 
the root barrier suggested wasnt ever a viable option, acknowledging this could have been 
identified sooner. So I think there was an unnecessary delay here. 
As part of exploring the options, a heave assessment was carried out. Again, I see no 
reason why this wasnt a reasonable step for Ageas to have taken when considering the 
options available to it. Mr Ts engineer has suggested that the property could have gone on 
to experience heave for a several years, but the independent report instructed by Ageas in 
October 2019 indicated up to two years. So theres quite a difference between the two 
reports. 
Like the investigator I think given the independent heave assessment was persuasive in 
supporting Ageas view that the first step to resolving the subsidence should have been 
removing the tree. But as the property was sold before this could happen, we cant know 
what impact heave might have had on the property. Mr T thinks company appointed to carry 
out heave report wasnt independent, but Ive not seen anything to support that allegation. 
Im satisfied Ageas was entitled to rely on the report. 
Ageas didnt automatically accept the recommendation of underpinning from Mr Ts expert. I 
wouldnt expect it to given the significant costs involved in this compared with the indicative 
costs of the root barrier or tree removal and superstructure works. Ageas also makes the 
argument that it is not unusual for cases involving subsidence to have anticipated resolutions 
be amended or changed completely. Im persuaded by this argument. I consider it was 
reasonable for Ageas to consider the less expensive options first  such as the root barrier 
and tree removal. I dont consider exploring these options so much as U-turns, rather than 
Ageas considering all the available options to it. 
Mr T has said that he thinks the delays benefited Ageas, but I havent seen any evidence to 
support this allegation. Ive considered Mr Ts engineers reasoning for recommending 
underpinning, I dont think they are, in themselves, sufficiently persuasive to have prevented 
Ageas from exercising its right to explore all options to resolve the subsidence.
Ill turn now to the sale of the property. Mr T says he and Mrs B had no choice but to accept 
a lower offer than they otherwise would have achieved due to the pressure to settle the 
equity release mortgage. I should be clear that my findings here only relate to Ageas 
handling of the claim. While Ive seen some correspondence from the mortgage provider, 
Ive not considered their conduct, but I have considered their messages to Mr T.
I can understand Mr T and Mrs B needed to decide whether to sell the property and 
understand they would have felt some pressure given the interest on the mortgage was 
continuing to accrue. So I need to decide if I think Ageas handling of the claim delayed 
matters or contributed to an already difficult situation for them. But having outlined Ageas 
handling of the claim above, while I agree the original findings of the arborist caused a delay, I dont think the remainder of Ageas handling of the claim took longer than I would have 
expected in the circumstances. 
Mr T and Mrs B made the decision to sell the property. Mr T said they had no choice but to 
make that sale, while the investigators conclusion was that they didnt need to, they could 
have waited to see whether how the claim progressed. Im mindful in October 2019 Mr T had 
been told the application to remove the tree was being submitted as Ageas considered there 
was a strong likelihood of success. 
Im sympathetic to the difficult situation Mr T and Mrs B were in. However, while it might not 
have been an easy decision to make, they chose to move forward and sell the property 
rather than giving it more time to see if the tree could be removed. Im not going to direct 
Ageas to pay the difference between the sale price and what Mr T considers might have 
been achieved otherwise
Mr T had earlier suggested they ought to be compensated for loss of rent as they werent 
able to rent the property out while the claim was ongoing. Ive reached the same finding as 
our investigator here, and for the same reasons. As the property wasnt already being rented 
out when the claim was logged, there isnt provision for the policy loss of rent under the 
policy, as no rent was being paid.
Ageas has offered to pay £21,161.89, the midway point between the cost of works to the 
property. It has agreed with the recommendation from our investigator not to deduct the 
excess of £1,000. Its important to clarify Ageas is entitled to deduct the excess from the 
offer it made. But it has agreed with investigators recommendation not to. I think this 
compensates for the additional interest incurred on the equity release mortgage as a result 
of the delay caused by the incorrect advice from the arborist. 
And while I realise that Mr T and Mrs B have found this matter difficult, and of course this 
claim was made from very sad circumstances, Im not intending to direct the payment to 
reflect the worry and stress Mr T and Mrs B experienced. This isnt to say I dont think 
theyve experienced this, its clear they have. But we would usually only make an award for 
trouble and upset to the consumer directly. Here, Mr T and Mrs B have brought this 
complaint in their capacity as the executors of Miss Ts estate. So Im not intending to make 
a separate award for this. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied the offer of £21,161.89 made by Ageas 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Its not possible to know how 
much the works would have cost in the circumstances. Im satisfied Ageas took reasonable 
steps to explore the options to resolve the subsidence. Im intending to direct Ageas to pay 
£21,161.89.
I realise my decision wont be the one Mr T and Mrs B are hoping for, and Im sorry about 
that. I hope Ive been able to reassure them Ive carefully considered all the circumstances in 
reaching my decision.  
My final decision  
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
£21,161.89.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr T 
and the estate of Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman