DRN-3030664
The complaint
Mr G has complained about CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NVs (CIGNA) decision 
to withdraw from the market.
What happened
Mr G had a personal accident insurance plan, underwritten by CIGNA. He first took this out 
in 1991 and renewed every year.
In 2019, CIGNA wrote to Mr G and explained it was withdrawing from the market and would 
no longer be offering insurance for the product Mr G had.
Mr G asked CIGNA if he would get compensation or a refund of premiums as he had been a 
customer since the 1990s.
CIGNA explained that it wouldnt be offering any compensation as it had given Mr G plenty 
of notice to find alternative cover and it wouldnt be offering any refunds as it had provided 
Mr G with cover for the time that he was insured.
Unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to our service and in summary, said he felt it was 
unfair for CIGNA to remove his cover and not offer any compensation or a refund as it wasnt 
his choice to cancel. Mr G said the policy he had was a unique one and allowed for 
automatic renewals. He also feels his age was a factor in CIGNAs decision. And as he has 
never put in a claim, some compensation or reward should be due.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator.
Firstly, Ill confirm that I have considered jurisdiction in this case. Mr G brought his complaint 
outside of the six-month time limit outlined in CIGNAs final response letter. But our 
investigator considered Mr G had exceptional circumstances which meant he delayed in 
bringing his complaint to this service. I agree that Mr Gs circumstances are exceptional and 
so I will go on to consider the merits of this complaint.
I will now set out why I dont think CIGNA has done anything wrong.
CIGNA made a commercial decision to withdraw the product from the market. This 
wasnt a decision solely affecting Mr G but everyone with the same policy, regardless 
of age or any other personal circumstances. 
CIGNA is under no obligation to continue offering any insurance products on an 
indefinite basis.
CIGNA provided Mr G with six months notice to find alternative cover with the option 
to cancel his policy with CIGNA if he wished to do so.
Although Mr G asked for compensation as it was CIGNA, and not Mr G who couldnt 
continue, I dont think its fair or reasonable for CIGNA to pay any compensation. It 
isnt obliged to offer insurance for another year and Mr G was given plenty of notice 
of its decision. 
Mr G renewed his policy on an annual basis. There was no guarantee that his policy 
would continue on a long-term basis indefinitely. Either party would be free to 
discontinue at the end of each policy year.
I appreciate Mr G is a loyal customer and he has never made a claim. But I dont 
think its fair to ask for compensation as a result of not claiming on an insurance 
policy. The insurer was on risk and would have paid any valid claims, had they been 
made. 
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with my findings. But I cant fairly ask CIGNA to pay 
any compensation as I dont think it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman