DRN-3029494
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wont pay for a particular medical 
professional to carry out surgery.
What happened
Mr S has held a personal private medical insurance policy for many years. In November 
2020, he called AXA to ask whether it would pay for a particular eye surgeon, who Ill call Mr 
E, to carry out vitrectomy and cataract surgery. He also planned to claim for the hospital and 
anaesthetist fees which would be incurred because of the surgery.
AXA told Mr S that Mr E wasnt on its approved specialist list. It told Mr S that it wouldnt 
cover his surgery if it wasnt carried out by one of its approved specialists. It told Mr S that it 
didnt recognise Mr E for confidential reasons. And it also told Mr S that it wouldnt cover any 
fees associated with treatment which was under the direction of an unapproved specialist.
Mr S felt AXAs decision was unfair and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our senior investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy 
terms made it clear that AXA would only pay for treatment provided by one of its approved 
specialists. And that it wouldnt pay for treatment which was overseen by a non-approved 
specialist. She considered it was for AXA to decide which specialists it would and wouldnt 
recognise. So overall, she was satisfied it was fair for AXA to refuse to pay for Mr S 
treatment under Mr E and to decline the associated hospital fees and anaesthetist costs. 
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he stated he was aware that the policy didnt cover Mr Es 
costs. But he felt our investigator hadnt considered what was fair and reasonable. He 
considered AXA had excluded Mr E for financial reasons rather than medical ones. He 
stated that given his age and health considerations, it would be difficult to get alternative 
insurance elsewhere. He queried why AXA wouldnt pay a contribution towards Mr Es fees. 
He also didnt think it was fair to exclude the separate costs of the anaesthetists and 
hospital fees.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mr S position, I find it was fair and reasonable for 
AXA to turn down his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether AXA treated him 
fairly.
Mr S says he is aware that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Es fees simply 
arent covered. For completeness though, Ive set out the relevant terms from Mr S contract 
with AXA relating to specialists and treatment.
The policy says that if a policyholder wishes to use a particular specialist, they should call 
AXA and check whether it covers that specialists fees. The policy goes on to say:
Does my plan cover the full fees charged by specialists?
If your treatment is covered, we will pay different amounts depending on what kind of
arrangement we have with your specialist
Specialists we do not pay for. We do not pay any of their costs.
The policy further says:
Specialists we do not pay for
We will not pay any of their costs, so you will need to pay all their costs yourself. There are 
some specialists that are not on either our fee-approved or fee-limited lists. This means 
that we will not pay any of their fees, or any fees for treatment under their direction. If 
you do not want to pay for treatment, call us before you start treatment. We will be happy to
find a specialist whose fees we will cover. (Bold is my emphasis).
AXA has also defined what it means by a specialist. The policy states:
specialist  a medical practitioner who meets all of the following conditions:
-has specialist training in an area of medicine, such as training as a consultant 
surgeon, consultant anaesthetist, consultant physician or consultant psychiatrist
-is fully registered under the Medical Acts
-is recognised by us as a specialist.
I think the terms of Mr S contract with AXA make it clear that it wont pay for the costs of any 
medical practitioner whom it doesnt recognise as a specialist. And Im satisfied the terms 
also make clear that it wont pay for any fees associated with treatment a policyholder 
receives under that practitioners direction.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr E isnt a specialist whom AXA recognises. I dont 
doubt that Mr E may be on other insurers approved lists and that he is highly respected in 
his field. But AXA has made a commercial decision not to include Mr E on its approved 
specialist list. Thats a commercial judgement its entitled to make. And so I find that any cost 
Mr S incurs as a result of undergoing surgery under Dr Es care simply isnt covered by the 
terms of the policy. 
I appreciate Mr S feels the anaesthetists costs and hospital fees are separate and therefore, 
ought to be paid. But as Im satisfied that the contract makes it sufficiently clear that AXA 
wont pay fees for treatment which is received under a non-approved practitioners direction, 
I find it was fair for AXA to conclude that the hospital and anaesthetists fees were also 
excluded from cover. I say that because the evidence suggests that both of these costs 
would be incurred as a result of Mr S undergoing surgery under the direction of Mr E.Mr S feels strongly that its not fair or reasonable for AXA to refuse to pay some or all of Mr 
Es costs. As Ive set out above, Im persuaded that these costs simply arent covered by the 
terms of the contract. I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if Im 
satisfied their application produces an unfair result. Thats not the case here though. I think 
AXA made Mr S sufficiently aware that it would pay for neither Mr Es fees nor the 
associated anaesthetist and hospital fees. I also think AXA would likely have agreed to 
further consider a claim for Mr S surgery if it was being carried out by an approved 
specialist. Once Mr S was aware AXA wouldnt cover Mr Es costs, it was open to him to 
choose one of AXAs approved specialists to carry out any necessary treatment. However, 
hes chosen not to do so. And as Ive set out above, its for AXA to choose which specialists 
it wishes to enter into commercial agreements with. Ive also borne in mind that Mr S is 
unlikely to be able to find alternative healthcare provision which would now cover his 
surgery. But I dont think thats enough for me to say that AXA must pay a claim outside of 
the policy terms. 
So overall, while I sympathise with Mr S position, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for 
AXA to decline to pay Mr Es nor the associated costs of the hospital or anaesthetist.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman