DRN-2576749
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) has unfairly declined a
claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 February 2021, an extract of which is 
below:
Mrs L is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to Mrs 
Ls actions include those of her representative. References I make to LBGIs actions include 
those of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive only provided a 
summary of what happened.
Mrs L purchased a property in 2000. It was built in 1975 and includes an integral garage. 
The garage was converted into a reception room some time between 1995 and 2000, before 
Mrs L purchased it. The property is insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
LBGI.
Mrs L noticed damage to a number of areas of her property in 2018 and reported this to 
LBGI. It appointed a specialist agent to investigate and deal with her claim. An engineer 
undertook an inspection and concluded the cause of the problem was subsidence caused by 
an oak tree owned by the local authority
Following the inspection, LBGI said the foundations of both the garage conversion and the 
main part of the house werent deep enough and didnt meet the standards set by NHBC. 
Because of this, it said the claim was declined under an exclusion in the policy relating to 
poor design.
Mrs L complained to LBGI in August 2019 but it didnt change its position so Mrs L brought 
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators started to consider the evidence but during her investigation, LBGI 
changed its stance. It said that, as it had taken a long time for any defects to arise and due 
to the limits of the information available to it, it had decided to accept the building was 
compliant with building regulations. It therefore agreed to reconsider the claim against the 
remaining terms of the policy but didnt propose to pay any compensation.
Mrs L wasnt happy with this offer, saying it was vague and uncertain. She explained in detail 
what she wanted to happen to address the problem. She also explained the impact of the 
delays in LBGI changing its stance and said LBGI should pay her £1,500 in compensation.
Because of this, our investigator continued with her investigation but did explain that she 
would likely reach the outcome LBGI had already offered, given that it had agreed to honour 
the claim. Mrs L reiterated she wanted LBGI to confirm it would deal with the subsidence 
damage to her house and pay her compensation.
Our investigator said she wasnt satisfied LBGI had done enough to show that NHBC 
guidelines applied to the garage conversion or that the foundations were defective. So, she 
thought it was fair LBGI had agreed to pay the claim but she didnt think compensation was 
warranted.
Mrs L disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has raised a significant number of points and has posed various questions of both 
LBGI and this service. My role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be 
resolved, quickly and informally. That means I will focus my investigation and decision on 
what I consider the crux of the issue to be. I may not comment on everything Mrs L has said 
or asked, unless I consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I 
have thoroughly read and considered all the evidence presented by both parties.
As Ive explained above, LBGI decided it should look at the claim again having apparently 
accepted the property did comply with building regulations. It did still however say it didnt 
think the claim was strictly speaking covered and the offer it made was outside the terms of 
the policy and so it didnt think compensation was appropriate.
So, while I acknowledge this change in stance, for me to decide on what level of impact and 
inconvenience this late decision has caused Mrs L, I need to first consider whether LBGI 
should have reached this decision sooner.
When declining a claim, the onus is on the insurer to demonstrate that its more likely than 
not the exclusion its relied on, applies. So, in this decision, Ill be considering whether LBGI 
has reached a fair outcome and whether it should have done this sooner than it did.
The term LBGI relied on
My starting point for this is the term that LBGI relied on to decline the claim. In its final 
response to Mrs Ls complaint it said the foundations of the property werent deep enough 
and didnt meet the standards set by NHBC for new houses. Because of this, it said the 
following exclusion applied:
General exclusions
These exclusions apply to all sections of the policy.
The policy does not cover:
Uninsurable causes
Any loss or damage caused by:
Faulty workmanship, poor design, or defective or inherently unsuitable materials
Ive then gone on to consider the evidence it relied on to reach this conclusion. 
The evidence it relied on
The investigation LBGIs agents undertook shows the foundations of the main part of the 
property were 750mm and the garage, 250mm. LBGI said this was less than the minimum 
required depth of 1,700mm detailed in the relevant NHBC guidelines from the time the property was built. LBGI hasnt provided a copy of the guidelines its relied on but even if it 
had, and what it says was correct, there are other things I would have expected it to take into 
consideration before declining the claim.
In this case, the property  including the integral garage  had been constructed in 1975 and 
the conversation was undertaken sometime between 1995 and 2000. The damage didnt 
occur until 2018 and thats some forty three years after the original construction and more 
than eighteen years after the garage was converted. So the property had stood without issue 
for a significant amount of time before the problems occurred.
Ultimately, this fact caused LBGI to reconsider its stance on the claim and it explained:
Having reviewed everything again I consider this to be something we should be 
accepting
The main reason for overturning this one is because the house and converted garage 
has never experienced problems until now. The garage was built in 2000 which is 
10yrs ago so quite a long time before any defects have arisen
Whilst the time period quoted may not be correct, Im satisfied LBGI has reached the right 
conclusion here and thats that the property and garage have stood the test of time, only 
experiencing problems many years later. And so, its right it should accept the claim as it has 
now agreed to do. 
Delays
Mrs L says LBGI has caused delays of two years and, while she accepts that it wasnt the 
most serious of claims, she has explained the impact of things taking longer than they 
should have. She says shes experienced stress, inconvenience, distress, uncertainty and 
fear as to her future. She also says shes been concerned about the stigma of having a claim 
declined. Because of this, she says LBGI should pay her £1,500 in compensation.
I have to keep in mind here that subsidence by its very nature is often stressful for the home 
owner and claims relating to it necessarily take time to investigate and resolve. I cant hold 
an insurer responsible for that but I will look at whether it was responsible for unnecessary 
delays which caused things to be more stressful or inconvenient. 
In this case, LBGI declined the claim, for the reasons Ive explained above, in June 2019 and 
it only changed its stance in September 2020 when it could have done this much sooner, at 
the time of the original declinature. I understand why this period of delay would have been 
stressful for Mrs L and I think LBGI should take action to acknowledge this.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am currently minded to tell LBGI to accept Mrs Ls 
claim. Additionally, I plan to tell it to pay her £500 in recognition of the impact of the delays it 
caused and while I acknowledge this is less than Mrs L believes she deserves and more 
than LBGI thinks is right, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
When LBGI responded to Mrs Ls complaint, it didnt go into detail about how it would 
resolve the subsidence problem if it were to deal with Mrs Ls claim. For that reason, I dont 
think it would be appropriate for me to make a finding on how LBGI should deal with the 
claim.
However, I will explain that as a guiding principle, we generally expect insurers to provide a 
lasting and effective repair. In a subsidence claim, that means stabilising the building. There are different ways of achieving that, including removing trees and/or underpinning. Whats 
most appropriate depends on the particular circumstances of the claim. We also expect 
insurers to handle claims promptly and to take into account the timescale of any possible 
actions when deciding how to handle a claim fairly.
To move the claim forward LBGI should reassess the information it has about the claim. It 
should set out clearly to Mrs L how it intends to handle the claim in order to provide a lasting 
and effective repair  and the likely timeframe involved
LBGI confirmed its acceptance of my provisional decision. Mrs Ls responded in detail. Ive 
summarised her comments below:
The foundations werent of poor design and theres no evidence from a properly 
qualified person to confirm the foundations are the cause of the damage
Despite what LBGI says, the foundations were built to NHBC standards 
If NHBC guidelines were the required standards, this should have been detailed in 
the policy conditions
LBGI has still not agreed to cover the claim under the policy and says the claim is not 
strictly speaking covered by the policy and has questioned what this means
LBGI didnt take into consideration the stress and inconvenience she experienced
The delays warrant more than the £500 recommended and LBGI should also waive 
the policy excess
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mrs Ls response its clear to me she would like my decision to detail everything thats 
happened in more depth  as well as note all the mistakes she believes LBGI has made 
across the life of the claim. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the issue to be and that may mean I dont 
comment on everything, particularly where I dont consider it affects the outcome. And my 
decision is not intended to be a forensic review. The purpose of my decision is to suggest a 
way to resolve the issue quickly and with minimal formality rather than to provide a detailed 
account for other consumers. 
While I acknowledge Mrs Ls view and all of her comments, they havent changed my mind. I 
say this as LBGI has now agreed to accept her claim. So, for example Mrs Ls concerns 
about LBGIs comments about the foundation design or whether the claim was strictly 
covered are now academic as this is no longer LBGIs position on the matter. But I do 
acknowledge these issues will have meant the claim has taken longer than it should have 
so, I have taken account of them when assessing what I consider to be fair compensation. 
For these reasons I still think LBGI should accept Mrs Ls claim and I think it should have 
done so sooner than it did.
Putting things rightFor the reasons Ive explained I will be directing LBGI to accept Mrs Ls claim in line with 
what I said in my provisional decision. 
I know Mrs L thinks LBGI should wave the excess fee detailed in the policy. But this fee 
would have always been payable on this subsidence claim and Mrs Ls further comments 
havent persuaded me that LBGI should waive it. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that the £500 trouble and upset I recommended in my provisional 
decision is a fair way for LBGI to recognise the impact of the delays it caused Mrs L, taking 
into account everything she and LBGI have said.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
Accept Mrs Ls claim
Pay Mrs L £500 for the trouble and upset its caused as a consequence of its 
delays
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman