DRN-4075368
The complaint
Mr C complains about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement he had with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
In October 2022 Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS concerning a 
new car. About three weeks later he asked to reject the car. The car has a feature called 
lane departure warning, which causes the steering wheel to vibrate as a warning whenever 
the car detects that it is leaving the road or its driving lane, unless the indicator is used. This 
feature can be turned off, but the default setting is that it is on, and so each time the engine 
is started it automatically activates; it cant be permanently switched off. And when it is 
turned off, this also disables other useful features which Mr C would prefer to keep. He said 
this was not an issue with other BMW models sold in the UK. He found this to be totally 
unacceptable. He also complained that another feature, steering intervention, was not 
available on his model.
BMWFS did not agree to let Mr C reject the car. It said that he would only be entitled to do 
this if the car had a fault, and this was not a fault but a deliberate design feature. It said that 
this was explained in the owners manual, which was published and available in the public 
domain. It told him that it was the responsibility of customers to research a car before they 
choose it. He had also had the opportunity to test drive the car. It added that it has never 
promised that all of its models will have identical features.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr C referred this complaint to our service. He insisted 
that the owners manual had not been available to him until he acquired the car. He argued 
that a characteristic of a car can still amount to a fault  specifically, the fact that turning off 
the lane departure warning also deactivates other features such as the forward collision 
warning.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He quoted some passages from the owners 
manual which explained that the lane departure warning feature is automatically activated at 
the start of every journey, that it cant be turned off permanently, and that no warning occurs 
if the indicator is used before manoeuvring.
Mr C did not accept the investigators opinion. He maintained that the car still had a fault. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons the investigator gave.
Mr C is only entitled to reject the car if the car was faulty when he acquired it. I accept Mr Cs 
argument that a fault does not have to be mechanical in nature, and that faulty software is 
enough. But I do not agree that the matters he is complaining about amount to faults, 
because the software is functioning as intended. And just because other models of BMW are 
different, that does not mean that this model is faulty.
The steering intervention feature is not available on all BMW models. The fact that it is not 
available on Mr Cs model is not a fault. And while Mr C finds the lane departure warning 
feature objectionable, that does not mean that it is faulty. Nor does the fact that it can only 
be switched off by turning off other features as well.
I understand that the lane departure warning feature serves as a driver safety alert and is 
only triggered when, for example, the indicator is not used. And if it is triggered, it stops if the 
indicator is then used.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that BMWFS did nothing wrong when it declined to let Mr C 
reject the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman