DRN-3085624
The complaint
 Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly 
by accepting him for an overdraft and increasing the limit.
   
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that there were any signs of 
financial difficulty that shouldve prompted NatWest to treat Mr W any differently based on 
his financial circumstances when he applied for the initial overdraft of £250 and the following 
increase in limit to £600. 
But the adjudicate or was of the view that NatWest shouldnt have approved the increase in 
limit to £2000 - a day after the previous increase - and thought that NatWest acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft fees from 26 July 2016. 
NatWest didnt agree but accepted the adjudicators view as a gesture of goodwill and 
agreed to refund the fees from 26 July 2016 to settle Mr Ws complaint. NatWest has 
advised the refund due is not enough to repay the debt so the refund will be used to reduce 
Mr Ws excess balance. 
Mr W disagreed, he says he should never have been given an overdraft and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I think that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr W is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im in agreement with our adjudicator in that when 
Mr W applied for his overdraft of £250 and the first increase in limit to £600 a month later, 
there wasnt any information that NatWest had to suggest Mr W was in financial difficulty and 
wouldnt be able to pay back his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. Indeed, his 
statements show a salary and other regular deposits being paid in which were enough to 
clear his overdraft balance.
But again, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that the final increase to £2,000 of the 
overdraft limit on 26 July 2016 wasnt affordable and NatWest should rework Mr Ws account 
to remove all interest and charges added to his account from this point onwards. This means 
that from 26 July 2016 onwards interest can only be charged on the first £600 of any 
overdrawn balance. 
It might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something 
wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in 
the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they 
shouldnt have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this 
case 26 July 2016. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest 
per year.
NatWest has told us that Mr W is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his 
increased overdraft limit from 26 July 2016. So while Mr W has been left with a balance and 
he might be unhappy with this, NatWest has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
So Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr W is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr W to decide whether he wishes to accept 
NatWests offer.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman