DRN-3564268
The complaint
Mr C complains that Jade Stanley Ltd (JS) mis-sold him a travel insurance policy.
Mr Cs represented by Mrs C.
What happened
On 28 October 2019, Mr C took out a Silver Backpackers travel insurance policy through JS 
to cover a forthcoming trip to a country Ill call N. The policy provided cover between 29 
October 2019 and 2 May 2020 and was underwritten by an insurer Ill call U. Mrs C says that 
Mr C took out the policy by phone, but JS says the policy was taken out online. The policy 
cost Mr C £235.26.
Mr C travelled to N as planned. However, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, his trip had to 
be cut short and Mr C initially incurred some costs as a result. So he made a claim for those 
costs to U. But U turned down Mr Cs claim. Mrs C says that Mr C was told that the policy 
hed taken out didnt cover him for things like lost baggage, delay, and flight cancellations. 
She said hed been told he was only covered for emergency medical care and emergency 
travel for medical reasons etc.
Mr C was unhappy with the policy hed taken out and felt it had been mis-sold to him. Mrs C 
asked us to look into the complaint on his behalf. She told us that Mr C had only been sent a 
brief confirmation email and hadnt been sent a copy of the policy terms. So he hadnt been 
able to check if the policy was right for him.
Our investigator asked Mr C if he could provide his own recollections of the sale, but Mr C 
didnt reply to our investigator. So the investigator assessed the complaint based on the 
information he already had. Hed been able to look at JS website from around the time of 
the sale and noted that the policy did provide cover for baggage, personal money and 
cancellation. And he noted that the policy certificate JS had sent Mr C stated that a copy of 
the policy terms had been attached as a PDF for personal printing. So he thought that if the 
PDF hadnt been attached, Mr C wouldve likely raised it at the time. Overall, he didnt think 
the evidence suggested that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr C.
Mrs C disagreed. She said that Mr C has a medical condition and that JS had taken 
advantage of him. And she said that someone at JS had told her that the policy covered 
nothing at all and that Mr C therefore deserved a refund.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint 
and Ill explain why.
First, theres very little available evidence to show what happened at the time of policy sale. 
Mrs C told us that Mr C took out the policy by phone and JS says it was sold online. Our 
investigator tried to get in touch with Mr C to discuss his recollections, but Mr C didnt 
respond. With little information available to me and without the benefit of any detailed 
recollections from Mr C, Ive had to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened when Mr C took out the policy.
On balance, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest JS advised Mr C to take out 
the policy. This means it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for him. It did need to give 
him enough clear, fair and misleading information though so that he could decide if the policy 
was right for him.
Mrs C says Mr C was told by JS that the policy provided no cover at all and that he deserved 
a refund. She said hed been told that the policy only provided things like emergency medical 
cover. Like the investigator, Ive looked at JS website from around the time of the sale to 
check what cover the Silver Backpacker Policy included. Given the proximity to the date of 
sale and the fact that U is listed as the insurer, I think its most likely that the cover at the 
point Mr C bought the policy wouldve been the same, regardless of whether it was taken out 
by phone or online.
I can see that along with medical and repatriation cover, the Silver Backpacker policy also 
covered cancellation; personal baggage; personal money; personal liability; missed 
departure and legal expenses. So I hope it reassures Mr C and Mrs C to know that the policy 
Mr C was sold did cover a range of risks and events. I appreciate that the policy might not 
have covered Mr Cs exact reason for cutting short his trip, but at the time he bought the 
policy, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been 
foreseen. So I wouldnt have expected JS to highlight that the policy didnt cover claims 
caused by Covid-19.
Mrs C has also told us that JS didnt send Mr C a copy of the policy terms. JS needed to 
make sure it made a copy of the policy information available to Mr C after the sale so he 
could check if it met his needs. Theres no dispute that JS didnt send Mr C a paper version 
of the policy terms and conditions  but I dont think this means it follows it did anything 
wrong.
I say that because Ive seen a copy of the insurance certificate JS sent Mr C following the 
policy sale, which set out the main details of his cover. This certificate includes the following:
For full policy details, please view the attached PDF containing the Policy Wording
We recommend that you print this Certificate and the Policy details as stated above and take 
them with you on your trip.
JS says that the policy terms were attached as a PDF to the certificate. Ive thought above 
this. Its possible that the terms werent attached as a PDF and that JS didnt meet its 
information obligations. But I think the certificate makes it clear that a PDF setting out the 
policy terms shouldve been attached. And if it wasnt, I think Mr C (or Mrs C) ought to have 
realised within the 14-day cooling-off period that JS hadnt provided the information it said it 
had and been prompted to get back in touch with it to query this. On this basis then, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that the PDF was attached to the certificate and that 
accordingly, JS did provide Mr C with information in line with the regulators rules.
Overall, based on the available information, I simply havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that JS mis-sold this policy to Mr C. So it follows that Im not directing it to 
refund the premium he paid.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman