DRN-3592980
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In April 2020, Miss Js account received a payment of £2,500.00 The funds were 
immediately transferred on to a third-party account. Metro subsequently received a 
notification from the bank responsible for sending the payment to Miss Js account stating 
the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Metro reviewed Miss Js account 
and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Miss Js account and record a fraud 
prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss J complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Metro looked at Miss Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss J remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Js concerns. She didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss J is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Js account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss J was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss J allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Js complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account and that her actions suggest 
she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Metro did have 
enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Js 
account in April 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss J was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss J says the fraudulent funds entered her account without her knowledge. She said she 
wasnt aware of the money coming in, wasnt expecting it and didnt give anyone access to 
her banking details. The first she knew about the matter was when she was unable to move 
funds from her savings account to her current account. Miss J said that she moved during 
lockdown and lost her card and this is the only way she could think her account might have 
been compromised.
Ive thought about what Miss J has said. But Miss J hasnt provided a plausible explanation 
as to how any fraudster would have been able to obtain her details to login to her internet 
banking and set up the payee the funds were transferred to  especially as a code similar to 
the one she was provided with to speak to Metro was also needed. Its unlikely that an 
opportunistic fraudster who simply found Miss Js card would have been able to obtain all of 
this. So, in circumstances where Miss J is insistent her account details werent 
compromised, its difficult for me to see how a third party would have been able to receive 
the payments and make the transfers in question without Miss Js cooperation.
Im afraid the implausibility of Miss Js version of events coupled with Miss J being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate what she says means that I cant reasonably conclude 
she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not she was 
complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Metro did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss J was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Metro to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss J. But even taking into account the impact 
Miss J says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available evidence  
appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent activity. So I 
hope that Miss J will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss J might find that shes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a 
full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman