DRN-3982778
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) handled 
her request for help to recover money following a holiday. Shes also unhappy as she feels 
that Virgin Moneys poor communication and timeliness has caused her to incur interest and 
charges on her account. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs L paid for a holiday abroad for herself, her husband and two friends. She 
paid for the flights and accommodation separately using her Virgin Money credit card. Ill 
refer to the flight provider as V and the hotel as C. The holiday was scheduled for ten days, 
departing on 25 August 2021.
Prior to departure Mrs L and the travelling party remained aware of the Covid-19 restrictions 
and requirements for testing. They were required to provide evidence of a negative test that 
had been taken 72 hours prior to departure and undertake a further test on arrival at their 
destination airport. While they were awaiting the results of the airport test, all guests of the 
hotel were allowed to use the pools and facilities but werent allowed to access the beach or 
to leave the hotel. 
Upon arrival at the hotel, the travelling party made use of one of the available pools while 
waiting for the results of the Covid-19 tests undertaken at the airport. However, shortly after 
arrival Mrs L received an email from the destinations Ministry of Health and Wellness 
department explaining that Mrs L and her fellow travellers had been in close contact with 
someone on the flight who had tested positive for Covid-19 upon arrival. The travelling party 
were asked to go into quarantine in their hotel rooms until they could be retested in a few 
days time. 
The retests took place a couple of days later, but Mrs L and the rest of the travelling party 
didnt receive the results for three days. All test results were returned negative, and the party 
were allowed to enjoy all the facilities at the hotel for the final three days of their stay.
Once she was back in the UK, Mrs L asked V to refund her. She said the information 
provided on their website when booking the trip was misleading, as it didnt explain the full 
details of the Covid-19 restrictions should they be asked to quarantine. In addition, she also 
explained to C that the conditions experienced whilst in quarantine were unacceptable. She 
said food orders took a long time to arrive and the food wasnt to a decent standard. She 
also said her, and her husband couldnt isolate with their travelling guests, and the guests 
room made quarantine uncomfortable for them. 
V responded to Mrs Ls request for a refund. They said their website confirmed Mrs Ls 
chosen destination operated a track and trace system and it was possible all travellers might 
be required to isolate for a longer period. They said that, as Mrs L had paid them for flights 
and she had used those flights, they wouldnt be providing her with a refund. 
Mrs L asked Virgin Money to help. She spoke to one of their advisors in September 2021 
and asked him to set up a claim for her. At this time, she also asked if the payments shed 
made to C could be marked as in dispute, so they wouldnt accrue any charges or interest 
while her claim was being looked at. This was agreed by Virgin Money, and Mrs L provided 
them with the relevant dispute form and all the evidence she had that she felt supported her 
claim. 
Having considered everything Virgin Money wrote to Mrs L towards the end of October 2021 
explaining that they were unable to take her claim any further. They explained that the hotel 
was following guidelines issued by the destinations government concerning quarantine 
requirements for those that had been in close contact with someone who had tested positive. 
Because of that, Virgin Money said they couldnt say there had been a breach of contract of 
misrepresentation and werent able to give Mrs L a refund. Within this letter Virgin Money 
also explained that the amount in dispute would now form part of Mrs Ls normal credit card 
balance and would be subject to interest charges again. 
Mrs L asked Virgin Money to reconsider their decision. They did and explained to Mrs L in 
December 2021 that their decision was unchanged. Within their decision they explained 
again that the transactions would now be part of her normal credit card balance and would 
be subject to interest charges again. 
Mrs L complained to Virgin Money about the decision. She also maintained that she wanted 
the transactions she wasnt happy with to continue to be set aside from her normal balance 
and all charges and interest to be waived. Virgin Money confirmed that the transactions 
wouldnt be frozen and normal interest charges would apply. 
As Mrs L wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response and their lack of communication, she 
brought her complaint to our service. While it was being looked into, Virgin Money refunded 
two late payment charges that had been applied to Mrs Ls outstanding balance and 
awarded her £50 compensation for some delays shed experienced. But they continued to 
apply the standard interest charges to the remaining balance. As Mrs L hadnt made any 
payments by May 2022, Virgin Money issued her with a default notice. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that he thought Virgin Money had acted reasonably by not 
raising a chargeback for Mrs L. He said he didnt think there was a reasonable chance of 
success in the circumstances. He also said he didnt think Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 could be considered as there hadnt been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation from V or C. Following a conversation with our investigator, Virgin Money 
did agree to put Mrs Ls account back into the position it was in, in April 2022. Our 
investigator put this offer to Mrs L. 
Mrs L didnt accept. She said she had started to make payments now towards the 
outstanding balance but felt the whole situation could have been avoided if Virgin Money had 
communicated better with her and provided a more detailed explanation of why her claim 
wouldnt be considered. She said she wanted her credit card account put back into the 
position it was in when she first contacted Virgin Money in September 2021. She wanted all 
interest charges refunded to her account, and the default notice retracted. 
As Mrs L didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why. There are different ways that a bank can assists customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Virgin Money to ask for a payment Mrs L 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representation by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
Chargeback
Virgin Money didnt raise a chargeback for Mrs L when she asked for their help. As Ive 
explained above, they didnt have an obligation to do so. And having looked at the 
information here, Im satisfied they acted fairly by not doing so. 
Mrs L has argued that she feels she had valid reasons for a chargeback to be raised on her 
behalf. She has said that the services she received werent as described, therefore she 
should be entitled to her money back. However, V have already explained that they were 
asked to provide flights for Mrs L and her fellow travellers to and from their destination  
which they have done. So, it follows that I think a chargeback would more likely than not 
have been unsuccessful had Virgin Money raised it. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded that C hasnt provided the services either. It was made clear to 
Mrs L that the quarantine requirements would be different if, because of track and trace, she 
was notified that shed been in close contact with someone who had since tested positive for 
Covid-19. And this did happen when another passenger on the flight tested positive on 
arrival at the destination airport. Whilst I completely understand why Mrs L feels her holiday 
was ruined and she would have liked more information from C while in quarantine, I dont 
think a chargeback would have been successful against them. C were following the 
guidelines set out for them by the government and didnt have a choice other than to 
implement quarantine measures for a period of time. 
The chargeback scheme is a relatively simple scheme and, in this case, isnt suitable for a 
subjective complaint about Covid-19 regulations, laws or guidance. For Virgin Money to raise a chargeback on Mrs Ls behalf, they have to be satisfied there is 
a suitable chargeback code that applies. I dont think there is in this case, so Im satisfied 
theyve acted fairly by not raising a chargeback when Mrs L made her request to them. 
Section 75
Mrs L feels that V and C breached their contracts with her, or at the least misrepresented 
them, as they didnt explain the exact implications of any quarantine requirements at her 
chosen destination. She thinks they should have specified the precise details of any potential 
quarantine requirements, including any updates as they occurred. However, I dont think 
thats a reasonable thing for either to do. The restrictions and requirements for quarantine 
and isolation during the Covid-19 pandemic were rapidly changing, with updates at many 
destinations changing on a very regular basis. In Vs case, they correctly mentioned during 
the flight booking process that Mrs Ls chosen destination was operating a track and trace 
system, and it was possible she could be contacted any time between 24 hours and six days 
of arrival and asked to quarantine. They also included information that asked all their 
passengers to make sure they were aware of any restrictions or potential implications for the 
country they were visiting. Im satisfied that information was reasonable, and enabled Mrs L 
to make an informed decision to proceed with her booking.
The information from C and from the destination website also confirmed that any person 
arriving that had been in close contact with someone who had since tested positive for 
Covid-19 would be asked to quarantine at a specifically approved location. Mrs L had 
chosen the hotel because it was an approved location  I understand shes unhappy that the 
quarantine and re-testing period impacted on the number of days her, and the rest of the 
travelling party had to enjoy all the facilities, but I cant say C breached or misrepresented 
the contract because of this. There wasnt any information contained in the terms and 
conditions that confirmed how long any period of quarantine should or would be for  it 
merely stated that this would be a requirement should close contact with a positive person 
occur. C were following their government guidelines at the time, and this doesnt amount to a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So, based on the information Ive reviewed, Im 
satisfied Virgin Money acted fairly when they declined Mrs Ls s75 claim. 
What Im considering here is Virgin Moneys liability for a like claim and for me to say its 
reasonable for them to reimburse Mrs L for the total amount, Id have to believe a court 
would tell the supplier to reimburse her. Im not persuaded in this case that would happen  
its certainly by no means clear-cut. So, it follows that I dont think its fair to ask Virgin 
Money to give Mrs L a full refund in the circumstances. 
Payments
Mrs L has said that she wants her account put back into the position it was in, in September 
2021, as the payments have been in dispute since then and shouldnt have been incurring 
any interest charges. She has said this was confirmed to her during a phone call with Virgin 
Money when she raised her concerns.
Having listened to that call, I agree that Virgin Money did explain that the payments would be 
marked as in dispute while Mrs Ls claim for a refund was considered. Virgin Money then 
wrote to Mrs L in October 2021, and again in December 2021 when she appealed their 
decision not to refund her and explained that the payments would now form part of her 
normal balance and any in dispute markers would be removed. At that point, they also 
explained that the outstanding credit card balance would accrue interest again. While I 
appreciate that Mrs L wasnt happy about this, and raised a complaint to Virgin Money, I 
dont agree that the payments remained in dispute while the complaint was investigated. Im 
satisfied Virgin Money had provided Mrs L with an answer to her request for a refund on two occasions and had confirmed on both occasions that the payments would now form part of 
her outstanding balance and accrue interest again. So, it follows that Im satisfied Virgin 
Money acted fairly by applying interest charges for the following months when sending Mrs L 
her statements. 
I accept that Mrs L wasnt happy about what was happening in relation to her refund, but at 
the same time she had a contractual commitment to make the payments under her credit 
agreement. This was irrespective of any dispute she felt she had on the account, and Virgin 
Money did explain that the payments were again part of her normal outstanding balance. 
Mrs L is unhappy as she has said that her credit file has been impacted and a default has 
been added. She would like this amended back to how it looked in September 2021. I dont 
agree that the information on Mrs Ls credit file should be amended. As above, Mrs L had an 
obligation under the terms and conditions of her credit card account to make a minimum 
payment towards her outstanding balance each month. She made a conscious decision not 
to make her contractual payments to Virgin Money while she continued to pursue her right to 
claim the money back  while that is her choice to make, that decision has in part led to any 
adverse information being recorded on her credit report. Mrs L could have avoided that and 
mitigated it by continuing to make her required contractual payments. Virgin Money are 
obliged to report how Mrs L has managed her account to the credit reference agencies and 
theyre required to report this accurately. Im satisfied theyve done this here, and I wont be 
asking them to remove any late payment markers. 
In relation to the default notice that was issued to Mrs L, Virgin Money have confirmed that it 
wasnt applied to her account as a complaint marker had been applied, and they hadnt sold 
the outstanding debt on. They told our investigator that the default notice would be removed 
provided Mrs L paid the arrears on her account, and its my understanding that she has now 
done this since receiving our investigators opinion in December 2022. So, I would expect 
Virgin Money to have removed any mention of a default from Mrs Ls account. 
During the complaint, Virgin Money have also removed a couple of late payment charges 
applied. Theyve also suspended any interest charges on a couple of occasions while the 
complaint was being investigated by them, and by our service. In addition to this, theyve 
compensated Mrs L £50 for some delays and miscommunication she experienced. Mrs L did 
ask Virgin Money to communicate with her by email rather than post, as her work 
commitments meant shed be away from home for a while. It seems that Virgin Money didnt 
always do this, but Im satisfied the compensation theyve already paid reflects this. Im not 
persuaded this had an adverse effect on the overall situation in the circumstances.
Virgin Money also offered to return Mrs Ls account to the status it held in April 2022, 
however she declined this offer when our investigator made her aware. As my decision is 
that Virgin Money have acted reasonably while dealing with Mrs Ls concerns I wont be 
asking them to go ahead with that. However, if Mrs L now wants Virgin Money to consider 
their offer she will need to approach them to discuss it. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs L. And its clear her expectations of 
her trip werent met. She has also mentioned that other guests at the hotel didnt face the 
same restrictions as were imposed on her and her party. But I cant hold Virgin Money 
responsible for that based on the information Ive seen and considered. Im only deciding 
how they have dealt with Mrs Ls initial request for help, and the decision they made based 
on what they were provided with. Because of that I wont be asking them to do anything 
more. My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman