DRN-2343592
The complaint
Miss E complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) in November 2009.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for these reasons.
Miss E had used a fee free account with Halifax before she took out the URCA. And fee free 
accounts were widely advertised and available from other banks and financial institutions. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Miss E knew she couldve got a fee free account at 
any time, and if Halifax had said she had to have a fee-paying account and she didnt want 
one, I think she wouldve declined it and looked for and found a suitable fee free account 
elsewhere.
So, I think Miss E knew she had a choice and chose to take out the URCA in November 
2009. 
Halifax says this was sold on an information only basis, by which it means that it didnt offer 
any advice or make a recommendation. Ive not seen any evidence that Halifax assessed 
Miss Es circumstances, and in this services experience Halifaxs sales at this time were non 
advised. So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt recommend the URCA to Miss 
E or advise her to take it. So, Halifax was only required to provide Miss E with enough 
information about the URCA to make an informed decision whether to buy it.
The URCA cost £12.50 a month from December 2009. The URCA benefits included world 
wide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency 
cover, card protection, discounts on a range of products, and a £300 fee free overdraft.
I think its more likely than not that Halifax provided enough information to Miss E as it was 
trying to sell the URCA to her; she enquired about and used some of the benefits; and there 
was nothing Halifax didnt tell her that in her circumstances would have put her off the 
account.
And I think it wouldve been of interest to her. She says that at the time of the sale, she 
travelled regularly; Halifax has provided evidence that she had a mobile phone; the car 
breakdown service covered her whether she was the owner or driver of the vehicle or not; 
and she had used her overdraft in the months prior to taking it out and continued to do so 
after. I also note that Halifax had recently introduced a £1 a day charge for being in 
overdraft, and the URCA effectively paid for itself if she was in overdraft for half the month.
Miss E says that she had pre-existing medical conditions that meant she couldnt use the 
travel insurance. But the travel insurance didnt exclude pre-existing conditions, it only 
required them to be disclosed. And I think Miss E was still interested in and probably used 
the travel cover as Halifax has a record of her making multiple enquiries about it over the 
years.
Miss E couldve closed the URCA at any time but didnt for many years. She says she tried 
to close the URCA on occasions, but Halifax has no record of this, and she did appear to 
benefit from the account, so I think its more likely than not that she didnt.
So, although I know Miss E will be disappointed with this and I dont doubt her honest 
recollections, I think its more likely than not she chose to take out the URCA based on the 
information Halifax gave her at the time and I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in the 
sale, so I cant uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman