DRN-3762224
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service provided by West Bay Insurance Plc (WBI) when he 
called to enquire about his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr D and WBI. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with WBI. He says on 15 February 2022 he called to 
enquire about what financial implications there would be if he cancelled his insurance policy. 
Mr D says he was told hed be charged £50 as a cancellation fee and that he wouldnt need 
to pay his remaining balance of premiums owed. Mr D went ahead and cancelled the policy.
Shortly after, he received notification that he owed the remaining outstanding balance. Mr D 
complained to WBI as he was unhappy. He says hed been misinformed and he wouldnt 
have cancelled the policy if hed been given correct information. 
WBI partially upheld this complaint. They said that an error had been made by their adviser 
during the phone call in question and Mr D had been given incorrect information. However, 
as a fault claim had been reported, the remaining outstanding premiums were due. In 
acknowledgment of their error, WBI reduced the balance outstanding by £50. Mr D referred 
his complaint to our Service for an independent review 
Out investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and as Mr D didnt accept 
the outcome, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
Its important to state that its not in dispute that WBI made an error. My decision will focus 
on:
What should have happened?,
Would Mr D have made a different decision (about the cancellation) - but for the 
error?,
The impact of the error on Mr D, and 
If WBI need to do anything further to put things right.
What should have happened?
WBI should have let Mr D know that because there was an open fault claim reported 
against this policy, hed have to pay the remaining outstanding premium if he wanted to 
cancel.
This is set out in the relevant policy terms. As our investigator has explained, the insurer are 
entitled to do so in this scenario - as Mr D had the benefit of the cover the policy provided 
and WBI have (as of that point) been unable to recoup their claim outlay from another party.
Would Mr D have made a different decision (about the cancellation) - but for the error?
Mr D says but for the error occurring - hed have not cancelled the policy. Hes suggested 
that he would have kept the car insured and possibly repaired it or considered other options 
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr D and the adviser. Mr D told the adviser that the 
car was dead - as the head gasket had gone. The adviser asked Mr D when he was 
looking to cancel the policy from and he said as soon as possible. Mr D asked if hed be 
charged anything for cancellation and made a comment about hoping he wouldnt have to 
pay the remainder of his policy. 
The alternative here for Mr D wouldve been to not cancel the policy, continue to pay for it 
monthly and arrange repairs. 
In a scenario where Mr D had been given the correct information about the cancellation I find 
it more likely than not that he would have either cancelled the policy as he did here, or kept 
the cover in place and arranged a repair. But whether Mr D cancelled the cover or let it run 
to the end of the policy term - overall hed still have paid the same amount in premiums. 
On balance, I find it more likely than not that Mr D would have still cancelled the policy had 
he been given correct information. In this complaint, a front line adviser making a human 
error and seemingly not fully checking the details of the policy doesnt override the policy 
terms which Mr D accepted when he took out this policy. 
The impact of the error on Mr D 
Mr D has described the impact this situation has had on him, particularly as a new home 
owner. Ive weighed this up against what WBI have already offered in recognition of their 
error.
Ive kept in mind that in a scenario where Mr D wouldnt have cancelled the policy, hed have 
not incurred the £50 cancellation fee. By offering £50, theyve refunded the additional cost to 
Mr D. Returning to my above point, regardless of whether Mr D chose to cancel the policy 
earlier than the term end or let the policy run its course  he wouldve still owed WBI the 
outstanding premiums. 
Ive then considered what Mr D has told us about the impact of having to pay the outstanding 
balance at a time when hed become a new home owner. Mr D should speak to WBI about 
an affordable repayment arrangement or other options. WBI should positively and 
sympathetically consider any such request from Mr D.  
My decision will disappoint Mr D, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with WBI. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman