DRN-2966756
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was charged account fees and default fees by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mr T had a credit card with Santander since 2014. This paid cashback rewards. Up to 
February 2020, he received total cashback of £120.43, but paid monthly or annual card fees 
of £153. In September 2019, Santander agreed that he could pay £30 by 30 September 
2019  instead of the minimum payment for that month of £43.66. In September 2109, the 
limit was £500. 
Mr T complains that he paid more fees to Santander than he received in cashback. He also 
paid over limit and late fees, and these were unfair. He said Santander agreed he could go 
onto a payment plan of £30 a month and this would be free of interest and fees.
Santander said that Mr T had paid card fees of £153 (not including late payment fees, over 
limit fees and interest), and received cash back fees of £120.43. These were accurate and 
were correct. But they paid Mr T the difference of £32.57 as a gesture of goodwill. The late 
fees and over limit fees were fair and didnt breach the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations (UTCCR). They couldnt find any record of a payment arrangement being 
agreed with Mr T.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander had refunded the 
difference between the cashback income and annual/monthly fees of £32.57  so that was 
fair. He agreed with Santander that the over limit and late fees didnt breach the UTCCR. 
Hed discussed with Santander whether there was a payment plan agreed with Mr T. Hed 
found out that theyd agreed that Mr T paid £30 per month starting on 30 September 2019  
but because Mr T hadnt made the first payment, the arrangement was broken and no longer 
in place.
Mr T asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ts credit card account with Santander and can see that indeed, he 
received cashback income of £120.43 but paid monthly, or annual card fees of £153. Mr T 
should note that the point of cashback wasnt that it would cancel out any card fees  it was 
an incentive plan to encourage him to use his card. But - Santander paid to him the 
difference of £32.57 as a gesture of goodwill  they didnt have to do that, and so acted 
fairly. 
Looking at the fees charged for late payments and over limit situations  I can see that 
Santander charged £12 for each occurrence. I can see these happened frequently and were 
advised on Mr Ts statements each time. I agree that Santander were entitled to charge 
these and that they are in fact legal  and dont breach the UTCCR legislation. So  they are 
fair and reasonable. I would also note that the fee of £12 for these occurrences are fairly 
standard for all card issuers in the UK.
Looking at what happened in September 2019. I can see that Mr T called Santander and 
said he couldnt afford to make that months payment of £43.66. It was agreed that in that 
month, he could pay £30  and this was to be paid by 30 September 2019. But - there wasnt 
an agreement that he could pay £30 a month thereafter  there wasnt an ongoing payment 
plan agreed, nor was there any an agreement not to charge interest or fees. This was an 
agreement just for that month. Santander set this out in their letter dated 12 September 
2019. I can then see that Mr T didnt pay the £30 by 30 September 2019  he paid in £70 on 
17 October 2019. But by that time, the agreement hed made had been broken, and he was 
in arrears. Santander then suspended his card on 12 October 2019. Normally, if a payment 
plan was agreed, this would be interest and fee  free. But - because there wasnt a 
payment plan agreed, Santander were entitled to continue to charge interest and fees for 
late payments and over limit situations.
And so  my decision is that Santander acted fairly and reasonably, and I wont be asking 
them to do anymore here.
If Mr T is now struggling to make payments to his credit card, he should contact Santander 
who will look at his circumstances and see if a payment plan can be agreed  but that is 
something for Santander to consider and agree to.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman