DRN-2428320
The complaint
Mr B complains about the time it took Revolut Ltd to carry out a review on his account before 
they decided to close it. Mr B also complains about the service he received from Revolut Ltd 
and would like compensation.
What happened
In early November 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Bs account to carry out a review. As part of 
their review they asked Mr B questions relating to the management of his account, and 
about certain transactions.
Mr B answered Revoluts queries and during the review, Mr Bs account was blocked. Mr B 
said he found this difficult as he was abroad at the time and couldnt access his money 
despite it being his main account.
Around three weeks after the account was blocked, Revolut had completed their review. 
They decided to close Mr Bs account and returned the money to source.
Mr B complained to Revolut but didnt get a response from them. So he brought the 
complaint to our service.
In Mr Bs submission to our service, he had three main complaint points:
Mr B didnt think the time Revolut took to review the evidence he sent was 
acceptable.
Mr B didnt think the money had been returned to him in full  he felt that €12.60 was 
missing. Mr B was also unhappy that Revolut returned the money to source.
Mr B was unhappy with the overall service he received from Revolut as he didnt feel 
he could communicate with them in the way hed have expected to in regard to his 
complaint.
The investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
explained that Revolut are entitled to carry out reviews and she didnt think theyd caused 
any undue delays while reviewing Mr Bs account or in their communication with him. The 
investigator also recognised the €12.60 which Mr B thought was missing had actually been 
paid to an external party prior to the review taking place.
Mr B remained unhappy. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
I recognise Mr B says he is satisfied that Revolut are entitled to review his account and 
choose to close his account. Mr B is also satisfied that Revolut arent obliged to tell him the 
reasons for closing his account. Mr B is correct in what he says here and as this point isnt in 
dispute I wont comment on it.
I have considered the review Revolut carried out, and Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs 
comments regarding the time it took. From the evidence Ive seen, I can see Mr Bs account 
was first blocked on 5 November 2019. Revolut had completed their review and decided to 
close Mr Bs account by 27 November 2019. Therefore, the review took around 22 days in 
total. I appreciate Mr B thinks this is a long time for Revolut to carry out their review, but I 
cant agree. We dont normally set a timeframe as to how long banks have to carry out 
review. And thats because it depends on the circumstances of each case.
Mr B says he was abroad at the time and not being able to access his money caused him 
difficulty. I dont doubt this would have been really difficult for Mr B but a bank cant always 
guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
Ive reviewed the actions Revolut took when reviewing Mr Bs account, and I cant see that 
they caused any unnecessary delays. While I cant share the details of the review with Mr B, 
Id like to reassure him that Im satisfied the time Revolut took wasnt unreasonable.
The investigator helpfully explained to Mr B the whereabouts of the money which he thought 
was missing. Mr B said he reviewed his statement on or around 1 November 2019 and saw 
a total balance of €617.44. However, he said only €604.84 was returned to the original 
sources  both alternative accounts for Mr B. The investigator found that the missing €12.60 
was paid to an external third party and showed on Mr Bs statement late on 1 November 
2019. Ive reviewed the statements, including the transactions, and Im satisfied that the 
correct and full balance has been rightfully returned to Mr B.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about Revolut returning the money to source without 
checking with him first. Revolut were entitled to return the money to source and as the 
source accounts belonged to Mr B anyway, I dont think this caused any distress or 
inconvenience to him. Therefore, I dont conclude Revolut should have done anything 
differently. 
Mr B is unhappy about the service he received from Revolut. He explained it was difficult at 
times to get hold of somebody to speak to and Ive seen a copy of the chat transcripts which 
confirms this. Revolut have also admitted that they didnt respond to Mr Bs complaint initially 
due to human error. Mr B submitted two complaints concerning this issue within a few days 
of each other and Revolut marked them both as duplicate complaints which resulted in Mr B 
not receiving a response. I dont doubt this would have been frustrating for Mr B and I would 
expect Revolut to provide a response, especially when a complaint is being made. Ive 
thought about the impact this would have had on Mr B overall and whether Revolut need to 
do anything to put things right. While I recognise the service Mr B received fell short here, I 
cant fairly uphold his complaint on this point alone. I say that because I dont think Revolut 
responding to Mr Bs complaint when he raised it in November would have made an overall 
difference to the circumstances here. 
Ultimately Mr B complained because he was unhappy at how long Revolut took to review 
things  and even when they did answer his complaint, that feeling didnt change. Revolut 
say they didnt do anything wrong and Mr B didnt agree so he brought the complaint to our 
service as he was entitled to do. Therefore, while I agree it would have been better service 
for Mr B to receive a timely response to his complaint, I dont think this changes the outcome 
of whats happened. And therefore, I dont consider Revolut should pay Mr B any 
compensation.I know this decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B and Im sorry I cant uphold 
it in the way hed like me to. But overall, Im satisfied that Revolut carried out a review, as 
they were entitled to do, didnt cause any delays and returned the full money to Mr B. And 
while I recognise there were times where Revoluts service fell short, I dont think this has 
had an overall impact on the circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman