DRN-3975673
The complaint
A limited company I will call M, complains about the decision of Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited to decline its claim for business interruption losses caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of relevant events. Additionally, whilst 
various parties have communicated on behalf of M and Hiscox, for the sake of simplicity I will 
just refer to these two. 
M operates as an estate agent and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten, as far 
as is relevant, by Hiscox. In March 2020, M made a claim on the policy, saying that its 
business had been interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic and associated government-
imposed restrictions. Hiscox initially declined the claim in April 2020, and M complained 
about this. As a result of the test case1 brought through the courts by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, Hiscox delayed responding to this in full. 
In February 2021, Hiscox confirmed its position that the claim was declined, explaining that it 
did not consider Ms business was one which would have been required to close as a result 
of the Governments rules. Hiscox invited M to respond to this, and further correspondence 
was exchanged. Ultimately though, Hiscox did not change its stance and did not uphold Ms 
complaint about this outcome. 
M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, our Investigator did 
not recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the most relevant part of the policy 
covered losses caused by:
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during 
the period of insurance following:

b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease;
But that the government-imposed restrictions had not led to M experiencing an inability to 
use its office. 
M disagreed, saying that it was unable to open its doors to the public, was unable to seek or 
accept new business, and that the Government had announced that estate agents could 
re-open in May 2020  indicating that they couldnt before this date. 
As M remains unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
1 The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the 
related judgment in the court at first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on M, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy M took out.
I have considered the entire policy, but have focussed the content of this decision on the 
Public Authority subclause set out in part above. A number of words within this subclause 
are defined within the policy, but the application of these definitions is not disputed; for 
example, it is accepted that COVID-19 is a notifiable human disease for the purposes of 
the policy. 
The key issue is whether M suffered an inability to use its office. Inability to use is not 
defined within the policy. However, its meaning in the context of Hiscox policies similar to 
Ms was considered by the Supreme Court in the test case referred to above. As our 
Investigator has previously set out, the Court said at paragraph 136 of its judgment:
We agree with the [High] court and Hiscox that an inability of use has to be 
established; not an impairment or hindrance in use.
The Investigator also clarified that an inability to use the office for a discrete part of Ms 
business activities or an inability to use a discrete part of the office would satisfy the 
requirement of the policy.
M has said it was required to close its premises by the government-imposed restrictions. For 
businesses in England, which M is, these were largely contained within the Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. These regulations set out that 
certain types of business had close during the lockdown period. However, estate agents 
were not one of the types of business listed. So, I dont consider M had to close its premises. 
These regulations did impose other restrictions. For example, they banned gatherings and 
stated that people could not leave home without a reasonable excuse. However, one of the 
examples of a reasonable excuse listed in the regulations was for people to leave home to 
attend work if they were unable to work from home. So, I consider that Ms employees could 
have attended the office. And I think this meant M didnt experience an inability to use its 
office on this basis. 
I do appreciate that Ms customers may not have been able to attend its office. But I think 
this would have caused a hindrance to the use of the office rather than an inability to use it. 
Ms employees could have used the office and communicated via telephone or email, etc.
I note that the regulations originally limited the ability of people to move home, and said that 
this could only be done where reasonably necessary. This may have limited the business 
M was able to generate, but this was not due to an inability to use its office as such. So does 
not fall within the cover provided by the policy.
M has referred to a change in the rules in May 2020. This was introduced by the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2020. 
This change though was to the people who could move and what activities they could 
undertake. The change specifically allowed for members of the public to visit estate agents. 
However, as I have set out above, the prior inability of members of the public generally to 
physically attend Ms office would only have led to a potential hindrance of use of these 
premises rather than an inability to use them.
Ultimately, having considered the circumstance of the claim, I am not satisfied that M 
suffered an inability to use its office. It follows that I consider Hiscoxs decision to decline Ms 
claim under this subclause was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this 
case fair and reasonable.
I have considered the rest of Ms policy, but I dont consider there to be any other section 
under which Hiscox ought to have met Ms claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for M and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman