DRN-2665771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that TSB Bank plc didnt treat them fairly when they asked to extend 
the term of their interest only mortgage. They ask for compensation. 
What happened
The term of Mr and Mrs Cs interest only mortgage expired in mid-2018. TSB said it would 
extend the term for five years. However, the extension wasnt finalised. TSB sent field 
agents to Mr and Mrs Cs home and threatened legal action in early 2019.
TSB sent a final response letter in March 2019 in which it accepted it made errors. It 
refunded costs related to the field agents and paid £800 compensation. It told Mr and Mrs C 
what it needed to complete the term extension. 
There were further communication problems and the term extension didnt progress. Mr and 
Mrs C brought their complaint to us. TSB sent a second final response letter in which it said 
it should have put recovery action on hold and paid £50 compensation. Mr and Mrs C 
decided to sell the property and the sale completed in mid 2020.
Our investigator said TSB had responded fairly when Mr and Mrs C raised their first 
complaint, in 2019. He said both parties could have done more to progress matters after 
that, and it was Mr and Mrs Cs decision to sell the property rather than contact TSB by 
phone. The investigator said TSB should pay anther £200 for the upset caused by it not 
responding to Mr and Mrs Cs letters at what was a stressful time for them. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, saying it was difficult to get through to TSB by phone. Mr C said 
TSB didnt reply to their letters and when TSB contacted him this was only to book an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. He considered this unnecessary as theyd already had 
an appointment with a mortgage adviser. He said TSB had agreed a term extension and 
shouldnt have threatened legal action when theyd complied with its requests. Mr C said 
they didnt want to sell their house, and they only accepted the outcome in the first final 
response letter because they expected a term extension to be agreed. Mr C says the £800 
paid by TSB and additional £200 recommended by the investigator wasnt enough 
compensation in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
What happened?
The term of Mr and Mrs Cs interest only mortgage was due to expire in mid-2018 and they 
asked TSB for an extension. They had an investment property which they intended to sell to 
repay the mortgage. They wanted to extend the term so that they could keep the income 
from their investment property until they reached state pension age. TSB asked for 
information about the investment property. After TSB received the information its mortgage 
adviser met with Mr and Mrs C. A five-year term extension was recommended, subject to a 
query about the amount of a loan secured by a charge on the investment property.   
Mr and Mrs C provided a statement related to the loan secured on the investment property in 
December 2018. However, the statement didnt contain all the information TSB needed. TSB 
didnt explain this to Mr and Mrs C until March 2019. At that time it did explain what it needed 
and asked Mr and Mrs C to provide this so we can complete the mortgage review. Mr and 
Mrs C provided the document requested by TSB. 
Mr and Mrs C wrote to TSB in May 2019. They said theyd sold another property and paid off 
the loan secured on the investment property. Their letter also said As it happens we have 
now decided to sell [the security property] sooner rather than later so the full term of the 5 
year extension will not be required. They asked TSB to confirm there wouldnt be an early 
repayment charge if they paid off the mortgage early. 
Mr C sent a copy of the title for the investment property to TSB in July 2019  probably to 
show the charge was removed. This suggests to me Mr and Mrs C wanted the term 
extension, or at least to keep their options open. And I think their question about whether 
theyd be an early repayment charge suggests they thought the extension was in place.
Mr and Mrs C exchanged contracts in October 2019 and the sale of their property completed 
in mid-2020. TSBs notes say that in late 2019 and early 2020 it asked for evidence from Mr 
and Mrs C or their solicitors that contracts had been exchanged so that it could put recovery 
action on hold, but didnt receive this. 
Did TSB make errors or treat Mr and Mrs C unfairly?
TSB accepts it made errors which caused delays with Mr and Mrs Cs application for a term 
extension. At the same time, it sent field agents to their house and threatened recovery 
action. TSB also says it should have put recovery action on hold when the complaint was 
brought to this service in late 2019. 
Mr C says TSB acted as if the mortgage term had expired. He says it only contacted them to 
supplement the end of term letters, try to make them an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser and threaten legal action. Mr C says theres no evidence the calls were in response 
to his letters. I understand that Mr and Mrs C found this contact upsetting, but I dont think 
this means TSB acted unfairly when it tried to contact them. Despite what Mr and Mrs C 
believed the term hadnt formally been extended. TSB wanted Mr and Mrs C to speak to a 
mortgage adviser to complete this process or otherwise discuss how the mortgage would be 
repaid.
Mr and Mrs C found contacting TSB by phone frustrating and difficult. However, I think theyd 
have avoided some of the upset here if theyd discussed the situation with TSB by phone. 
And I also think if theyd provided evidence theyd exchanged contracts in late 2019 TSB 
would most likely have put recovery action on hold at that point. Nonetheless, Mr and Mrs C 
had attended an appointment with a mortgage adviser and provided the information 
requested by TSB. It might have helped matters and avoided some unnecessary confusion if 
TSB had responded to their letters.
Putting things rightI think TSB would likely have agreed a term extension if it hadnt made errors in processing 
Mr and Mrs Cs request in 2019. Equally, I see no reason why it wouldnt have agreed a term 
extension if Mr and Mrs C had attended an appointment with TSBs mortgage adviser in 
2020. 
I dont think I can fairly find that Mr and Mrs C decided to sell their property only because of 
TSBs errors. Theyd made this decision by May 2019, not long after the first final response 
letter, and didnt say at the time theyd made this decision due to TSBs errors. I dont think 
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require TSB to pay compensation for this.
Ive no doubt the delays caused by TSB in processing Mr and Mrs Cs application for a term 
extension caused them trouble and upset. This process went on for more than a year, during 
which time TSB sent letters about recovery action. I think its right that it pays compensation 
for the upset this caused. 
I think Mr and Mrs C did think the term extension was agreed, and that theyd provided all 
the information TSB required. Some of the confusion and upset here could have been 
avoided if TSB had responded to Mr and Mrs Cs letters. 
Overall, I think compensation of £1,000 (£800 already paid by TSB and another £200) is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances for the trouble and upset this caused Mr and Mrs C. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay £200 to Mr and 
Mrs C (in addition to the £800 it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman