DRN-1584523
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in December 1999. Miss B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in April 2001. The policy was 
added to Miss Bs credit card account when she applied for the card. The policy cost around 
73p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Miss B in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Miss B initially told us that to the best of my knowledge, I applied for the card by post. And 
she says she wasnt aware that the PPI had been added to her account. But she also said 
she didnt know the PPI was optional and that she couldve refused to have PPI on her 
account
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. Miss B says she wouldve applied for the credit 
card in a bank branch and HSBC must have advised her to take out the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs complaint.
This is not an easy complaint to decide; there is very little documentary evidence available 
from the time of the sale, more than 20 ago and Miss Bs testimony isnt consistent  so 
I must carefully weigh up the evidence available to me when reaching my decision. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of any application form that Miss B may have 
completed at the time and it hasnt been able to confirm where the sale took place. Miss B 
now says it wouldve happened in her local branch.. So its very difficult for me to know what 
happened when Miss B took out the credit card and PPI policy. I accept it is possible HSBC 
didnt give Miss B a choice about taking PPI. I also accept its possible HSBC gave her the 
impression she had to take it out. But it seems equally likely the bank gave Miss B the 
opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of her credit card application, and that 
she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the 20 years that have now elapsed.
This means Im not persuaded (as I must be to uphold Miss Bs complaint) its more likely 
than not HSBC presented the policy to Miss B as compulsory, or that it didnt tell her about 
the policy at all, or that it indicated that it would assist her overall credit card application.Moreover, if the PPI had been added to her account without either her knowledge or her 
consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge this shortly after the account opened 
as the PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card statements.
Its unclear whether HSBC gave Miss B advice; did it recommend the PPI to her? Miss B 
initially told us shed applied for the card by post, in which case no advice wouldve been 
given. She then told us she wouldve applied for her credit card in her local HSBC bank 
branch and that she was advised to take the policy. And HSBS simply doesnt know how it 
sold the policy to Miss B.
However, I dont think I need to make a finding on this because I think the PPI was suitable 
for Miss B for the following reasons:
 
At the time of Miss Bs application, she met the eligibility criteria and she told us that 
she was employed and that she was in good health. She, therefore, wouldnt have 
been caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions contained within 
these types of policy, such as those relating to health or employment that could limit 
the value of the policy in the event of a claim.
 
Miss B has told us that she would have received some sick pay from her employer in 
the event that she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. However, this 
policy paid out a benefit of 10% of her monthly outstanding balance for 12 months in 
the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and was therefore at a higher level 
and for longer than her existing occupational provision. In the unfortunate event of 
Miss Bs death it wouldve paid off her credit card balance in full.
 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. And as it was a regular premium policy, if 
Miss B decided she no longer wanted the PPI, or could no longer afford it, she 
couldve cancelled it at any point without penalty.
 
Ive thought about everything else Miss B has said about the sale of the PPI itself  but these 
points dont change my decision.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman