DRN-3301711
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved their 
application for a re-mortgage in error.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs L applied for a re-mortgage with NatWest on their unencumbered 
prefabricated reinforced concrete (PRC) property. They did this to raise funds of around 
£200,000 to purchase another property, which Mr and Mrs L say was of poor repair, so 
they were unable to get a mortgage on it. Mr and Mrs L explained that they planned on 
selling their existing property once they were in a position to move into their new home 
following completed works. The re-mortgage application was approved and subsequently 
completed in February 2020.
Towards the end of 2020, Mr and Mrs L were in a position to move into their new home and 
they put their existing home on the market. However, their most recent potential buyer was 
unable to secure a mortgage through another lender because the property was attached to 
an unrepaired PRC property. Mr and Mrs L suggested that the potential buyer approach 
NatWest, as it had approved their re-mortgage application earlier in the year. However, 
NatWest also declined the application.
Mr and Mrs L couldnt understand why NatWest had declined the potential buyers 
application, when it had approved their application some months earlier. They say they 
reviewed matters further and learned that NatWest hadnt lent on properties attached to 
unrepaired PRC properties for some time. So, Mr and Mrs L concluded that NatWest must 
have approved their application in error. They explained that they were left paying for an 
extra mortgage they didnt account for as they couldnt sell their property and wouldnt have 
purchased their second property if theyd known this earlier. And whilst they were able to 
generate some income from renting the property out, the rental income only covered half of 
the mortgage costs. Unhappy with matters, Mr and Mrs L complained to NatWest.
NatWest reviewed matters but didnt think it had made a mistake when approving 
Mr and Mrs Ls re-mortgage application. It explained that the surveyor it appointed had 
asked for an appropriate certificate and guarantee to confirm the property had been repaired 
accordingly. It also said the surveyor confirmed that the property was suitable security for it 
to lend on.
NatWest went on to explain that lending on a property in the past was no guarantee that it 
would lend on it again in the future. However, it did acknowledge that it took longer than 
hoped to review the complaint. As a gesture of goodwill, and in light of the circumstances, it 
agreed to cover the difference between Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage payments and the rental 
income they received for three months  a figure rounded up to £2,500. It also agreed to 
waive any early repayment charge (ERC) if Mr and Mrs L sold the property or chose to move 
to another lender before the fixed rate ended. It also offered to cover the consent to let fees 
until the end of the current rate on the mortgage. And, it agreed to cover the cost associated 
with extending the term on the mortgage, should Mr and Mrs L wish to do this to reduce the 
payments.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy with NatWests response, so they brought their complaint 
to this service. As part of its submissions to this service, NatWest provided a copy of its 
lending criteria. One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. In summary, he thought NatWest had appointed a suitably qualified 
surveyor to carry out the valuation at the time of the re-mortgage application, which it was 
entitled to rely on. 
NatWest didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs L did and mostly repeated 
their earlier points. I issued a provisional decision where I said that I thought NatWest had 
caused Mr and Mrs L some inconvenience. However, I thought its offer to put matters right 
was fair. 
NatWest didnt provide any further comments or information in response to my provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the decision. In summary, they reiterated their 
previous points and also explained that they werent asking for the debt to be written off, but 
they were hoping to alter the mortgage, so they didnt pay any interest. Mr and Mrs L also 
pointed out that they were relying on a stamp duty refund which, as I understand it, wouldve 
been due if they sold their existing property within three years of buying their new one  and 
now they feel they wont be able to benefit from that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments Mr and Mrs L raised in response to the provisional decision.
Ive looked carefully at the information Ive been given, which includes the valuation report 
and NatWests lending criteria, to decide if its more likely NatWest lent on Mr and Mrs Ls 
property against its own criteria. The lending criteria states that it will only lend on PRC 
properties where the property in question has been suitably repaired and has had a 
guarantee issued. The lending criteria also requires all houses in the structural block to have 
been repaired to this standard too.
The surveyor appointed by NatWest highlighted that the property had some PRC 
construction and recommended that NatWest obtain the necessary guarantees and 
certificates to show it had been suitably repaired. The report also highlighted to NatWest that 
Mr and Mrs Ls property was a semi-detached house. But it didnt comment on whether the 
adjoining property had been repaired to the required standard in line with NatWests lending 
criteria. 
With this in mind, and considering that NatWest would have been aware of its own lending 
policy in relation to adjoining properties, I think it ought to have realised that it needed to find 
out some more information about Mr and Mrs Ls property and the adjoining properties 
before it agreed to lend. Had NatWest done so, I think its more likely than not that it wouldnt 
have lent to Mr and Mrs L as it would have realised their property didnt meet their lending 
criteria. I note NatWest has indicated it thinks the fault lies with the surveyor, but I dont 
agree. I say this because the surveyor supplied the information requested on the report. And 
I think there was enough information there for NatWest to realise there might be a problem 
with lending on this property. Matters have since moved forward as Mr and Mrs L had the benefit of the funds, which 
theyve used to buy another property. So, it follows that I cant reasonably ask NatWest to 
unwind matters as though the lending didnt take place. Ive also considered that whilst there 
may be some restrictions on Mr and Mrs Ls ability to sell the property, I dont think from the 
information theyve given us that it will prove impossible to sell. As I understand it, 
Mr and Mrs L initially had a potential buyer who had secured a mortgage offer from 
elsewhere that fell through for unrelated reasons, suggesting that other lenders may be open 
to lending on the property. And they may be able to sell to a cash buyer. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were due a stamp duty refund which they were relying on. As I 
understand it, a refund wouldve been due in the event that they sold their existing property 
within three years of buying their new one. However, Ive kept in mind that if they ever 
wanted to buy a new property, they would most likely need to pay stamp duty on it  whether 
they planned to keep their existing property or not. And their existing property wouldve 
always had the same construction. So, Mr and Mrs L may have always faced the same 
issues with selling the property, irrespective of NatWests decision to lend. It follows that I 
cant conclude that Mr and Mrs L wouldve received the stamp duty refund, but for NatWests 
actions. And, in any event, I still think they have some options available to them when selling 
the property, as Ive outlined above.
Mr and Mrs L have explained that they would accept the interest on the mortgage being 
removed in the circumstances. However, our service looks to put people back in the position 
they would have otherwise been in had nothing gone wrong  as far as is reasonably 
possible. Whilst I appreciate why Mr and Mrs L would prefer the interest to be removed, I 
think doing so would likely to put them in a much better position than they otherwise would 
have been in. Theyve since used the funds to buy another property and removing the 
interest would mean this would have effectively been bought without any lending costs. It 
therefore wouldnt be fair to recommend that all the interest on the mortgage is removed.
Having said this, I do recognise that NatWests actions have caused Mr and Mrs L some 
distress and inconvenience. When reviewing Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, NatWest agreed to 
cover the difference between the mortgage payments and the rental income received for a 
period of three months  a figure rounded up to £2,500. It also agreed to waive the ERC if 
Mr and Mrs L sold the property or chose to move to another lender before the fixed rate 
period ended. It also offered to cover the consent to let fees until the end of the current rate 
on the mortgage. And, it agreed to cover the cost associated with extending the term on the 
mortgage, should Mr and Mrs L wish to do this to reduce the payments.
The offer NatWest has already made goes further than what I would have recommended to 
put matters right, and Im satisfied it already recognises any extra difficulty Mr and Mrs L 
may find in selling the property. It follows that I dont require NatWest to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman