DRN-2739262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down part of
their claim for storm damage under their Property Owners policy.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs broker raised a claim to Aviva for damage to their property. They said the
damage was caused by a storm in February 2020 and consisted of gable end cladding that
had blown away, and damage to a chimney flue.
Aviva said it couldnt be shown that the storm was the primary or effective cause of the
damage to the render. But it said the damage to the chimney flue fell under the Accidental
Damage section of the policy and accepted that part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Avivas decision and complained. Aviva responded and
maintained its position to turn down part of the claim. It said there wasnt any evidence to
show the render or cladding had been damaged due to a one-off storm event. Aviva added
that if Mr and Mrs H wanted to dispute the findings, they needed to provide their own report
of the damage.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Avivas response and referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They
found there were storm conditions around the time Mr and Mrs H reported the damage and
said that Aviva hadnt explained why a loss adjuster didnt attend the property to verify the
cause of the damage. So they didnt think it could rely solely on the pictures provided by Mr
and Mrs H to turn down the claim.
Aviva disagreed with our investigator. It provided further evidence and photos from its loss
adjusters which it said had assessed the damage remotely and showed the render had
suffered from long-term dampness. Aviva said this meant the render had become
delaminated and come away from the wall so didnt agree that this had all happened in one
storm event.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter and recommended the complaint not be upheld.
They found that the storm conditions had highlighted a pre-existing issue and said that Mr
and Mrs Hs policy didnt cover for issues that happened over time. So they didnt
recommend Aviva needed to pay for the remainder of the claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators findings. They said if Aviva had concerns
over the condition of the property, it should have appointed a loss adjuster to visit the
property and determine the cause of loss. They said it was unreasonable that the onus had
now been placed on them to prove the cause of loss. And they questioned how the surveyor
had concluded there was ongoing water penetration to the render from a visual inspection of
photographs only.
The complaint was passed to me and on 3 June 2021 I set out in my provisional decision my 
reasons for not upholding this complaint. Ive included an extract below:
Mr and Mrs Hs policy covers them for damage so long as it falls under one of the listed
events within the policy terms and isnt specifically excluded for another reason. In this case,
the event which is being claimed under is Storm. Our investigator said that damage that
happens over time is excluded under the policy, but Ive checked the terms and can see this
only applies to the Accidental Damage section of the policy, so this isnt relevant here.
I need to consider whether Aviva has assessed Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly under the terms
and conditions of the policy. Avivas position is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off storm
caused the damage being claimed for, so there isnt an insured event for it to cover.
In order for me to determine if Avivas position is fair and reasonable, I need to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
This part of the complaint is no longer in dispute. Both parties accept there were high winds
around the time set out in the claim. Storm isnt specifically defined in Mr and Mrs Hs policy,
but I consider the recorded wind speed of 53mph from local weather records as sufficient to
be classed as a storm. In addition, the damage happened during a named storm (Ciara)
which affected most of the UK, so on balance there is clear evidence of a storm around the
time of the claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
The photographs provided by Mr and Mrs H show the entire gable end cladding removed
from the side of the property, with some underlying damage to the render underneath. There
doesnt appear to be a great deal of shearing damage  for example where the cladding has
been ripped from the render  which one might expect to see from high windspeeds. But
overall, I can see evidence in the photographs which would be typical of damage that
would be caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Aviva has relied on its loss adjusters remote report to turn down the claim. Avivas report
says the main cause of damage was due to the long-term deterioration of the render from
water ingress. It says that the entire render wouldnt fail suddenly as a result of one bout of
water ingress and the high winds wouldnt have been the defining factor in either the render
delaminating or the cladding coming away from the wall. Rather, it has concluded the water
ingress over time has made the render blown and caused a loss of grip between the render
and the cladding.Mr and Mrs H provided the photographs of the damage. Theyve said the storm blew off the
cladding and the rainwater has then got underneath the render and made it blown. They
added that the photos provided show the render is still fully intact and say that it isnt
possible to make an argument for prolonged water ingress without visiting the site and taking
damp meter readings.
Ive also taken into account the comments from Mr and Mrs Hs contractor who attended the
property. The contractor said that upon attending all the cladding had been removed from
that side of the property, and the render had blown beneath the cladding around the gable.
They also stated there was no evidence of the wood having been ripped off the gable end by
the wind.
Having carefully considered everything provided by both parties, I am more persuaded by
the evidence provided by Aviva. I say this because I dont think that a single storm would
have suddenly caused the render to fail, and I am persuaded by the loss adjusters
conclusion that render would need to be exposed to a sustained period of water ingress
before it did fail.
There is some ambiguity in the claim about when exactly the cladding was removed from the
property, and the photographs show that underneath there doesnt appear to be any
evidence of fixings being ripped from the side of the property  which is supported by the
contractors comments. So taking into account that the render was blown when the
contractor visited, this suggests it is more likely the storm highlighted an existing problem as
opposed to being the main cause of the damage.
Therefore I intend to find Aviva has assessed the claim fairly on the available evidence and
has determined there isnt an insurable event. So I dont find it unreasonable for Aviva to
request a further independent report if Mr and Mrs H wish to dispute this further.
I do acknowledge Mr and Mrs Hs comments about a loss adjuster not attending the
property, and had one done so they would have most likely provided more definitive
evidence to support the outcome for the claim. But I find the evidence presented is on the
balance of probabilities sufficient to show the damage cannot be reasonably attributed to a
single one-off storm event.
For these reasons, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Developments
Aviva responded to my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs H 
also responded and said:
They were claiming for the cladding and not the plaster.
They disputed the condition of the plaster and said if it was as bad as Aviva made 
out, they would have removed it.
There were no water ingress or damp issues in the property.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the points raised by Mr and Mrs H change the outcome of this complaint and Ill 
explain why below:
I am aware that Mr and Mrs Hs claim concerned the gable-end cladding as Ive previously 
set out. But my provisional decision explained why I was persuaded by Avivas position that 
the blown render underneath had caused a loss of grip which ultimately led to the cladding 
coming away from the wall. So as I was persuaded the storm highlighted this problem as 
opposed to being the dominant cause of the cladding coming away, I didnt agree the claim 
should succeed. Ive not seen anything further which changes my opinion here.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs H dispute the condition of the render, I am more persuaded 
by the evidence of the contractor who attended the site and who mentioned the render had 
become blown beneath the cladding around the gable. Ive not seen any contrary reports to 
dispute their findings. And I dont think this necessarily links to any potential ingress of damp 
issues inside the property either; external render issues of this nature usually manifest over 
a period of time and not as a result of a one-off period of rainfall. So it would be impossible 
to say if or when this would lead to a potential damp issue further inside the property.
Having reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman