DRN-4416691
The complaint
Ms B complains esure Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim shes made on her 
motor insurance policy following an accident. Shes also unhappy her car has been 
categorised as a write off and shes received no settlement following this. 
What happened
Ms B is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to Ms Bs 
actions include those of her representative made on her behalf. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Ms B alleged she was involved in a collision with a third party car and her car was 
damaged as a result. She claimed on her motor insurance policy.
esure undertook an inspection of the cars and investigated the circumstances of the 
claim. Initially Ms B says esures agent made two offers on her car, the first of which 
she rejected and the second of which she accepted.
Having completed its investigations, esure let Ms B know it had concluded that there 
hadnt been a genuine accident. It said it didnt accept the accident had occurred in 
the way she claimed or if it had even happened at all. esure declined the claim, 
cancelled the policy and said it would return the vehicle to Ms B. 
Ms B was unhappy with this and complained to esure. It maintained its position and 
so Ms B raised a complaint with this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and having done so didnt uphold it. She 
said the expert evidence showed the damage between the two cars was inconsistent 
and so she thought esure had acted fairly in declining the claim. Ms B remained 
unhappy and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my experience, its common for insurers to appoint engineers to assess car 
damage and investigate the circumstances of an insurance claim. esures engineer 
considered the damage to the two cars involved in the collision. He concluded the 
height of the damage to the two cars was inconsistent and that some of the damage 
to the third partys car was too high to have been caused by Ms Bs car. 
Following this report, esure concluded that there hadnt been a genuine road traffic 
accident and said it couldnt accept the accident had happened in the way Ms B had 
described, or if it had happened at all. It declined to deal with the claim and said Ms 
Bs policy would be cancelled.
The onus is on Ms B to demonstrate that, on balance, she has a valid claim under 
the policy. She presented a claim for damage as a result of an accident with another 
vehicle. But based on the expert evidence available to esure, Im satisfied the 
inconsistencies in the height of the damage to the vehicles shows its more likely than 
not the damage to Ms Bs car didnt happen in the way she alleged. As such, Ms B 
hasnt shown she has a valid claim and so Im satisfied esure acted fairly when it 
reached the conclusion it did and declined the claim.
The policy states that esure has the right to cancel the policy where it has reasonable 
grounds to believe Ms B has deliberately or recklessly provided inaccurate 
information. The persuasiveness of the inconsistent evidence about the height of the 
damage gives those grounds in my view so Im not satisfied esure unfairly cancelled 
the policy.
The engineer also concluded Ms Bs car was beyond economic repair, and so 
categorised it as a Category N, write off, although this didnt become apparent to Ms 
B until sometime later. Ive not seen anything which persuades me this categorisation 
was inappropriate. 
esure says its obliged to report the write off categorisation (Cat N) of Ms Bs car to 
appropriate authorities irrespective of whether it agrees to settle the claim. I dont 
think this was an unreasonable course of action in the circumstances and is in line 
with industry good practice.
Ms B says an agent acting for esure made a number of offers for her car, the second 
of which she accepted. She says its unfair that esure hasnt paid her anything under 
the claim after it made these offers.
Ive not seen any evidence these offers were made, but even if they were, I dont 
think its unreasonable that following esures investigation and the conclusions it 
reached, esure didnt make any payment to Ms B as it declined to settle the claim. 
I wont be asking esure to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman