DRN-4019415
The complaint
The estate of Mrs M has complained about a claim declined by National Deposit Friendly 
Society Limited (National Friendly). 
All references to Mrs M include any submissions made on her behalf.
What happened
The late Mrs M bought a private medical insurance policy with National Friendly in 2020 
through a broker. In November 2020, Mrs M was diagnosed with cancer and admitted to 
hospital.
Mrs M needed intensive chemotherapy and contacted National Friendly about making a 
claim on the policy. She wanted to be moved into private care but National Friendly 
explained there was no cover for emergency admissions. However, once Mrs M had been 
discharged, cover would then become available. 
Mrs M asked about cash benefits whilst under NHS care. National Friendly explained this 
was only for planned admissions. But it did pay a total of £3,000 whilst Mrs M was having 
treatment on the NHS, as a gesture of goodwill. It also said it would cover the second wave 
of chemotherapy in private care once it received further details of the medication needed. 
Mrs M told National Friendly in December 2020 that she would need a bone marrow 
transplant, planned for February or March 2021. 
In March 2021, National Friendly told Mrs M bone marrow treatment was excluded under the 
terms of the policy. Mrs M complained to National Friendly but it explained why there wasnt 
any cover under the policy for the planned treatment. 
Sadly, Mrs M passed away and the estate referred the complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think National Friendly had unfairly 
declined the claim as the exclusion was clear.
The estate disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
National Friendlys literature is misleading, as it refers to extensive cancer cover.
The exclusion is significant but wasnt highlighted.
Expectations were raised for a number of months and Mrs M expected to receive 
treatment privately.
As a result of NHS delays, treatment was delayed and then no longer suitable as the 
illness became terminal. Had National Friendly covered the treatment, Mrs M would 
have had the treatment earlier. This could have saved her life.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. And largely for the same reasons as already 
explained by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Whilst I wont comment on everything that has been submitted, I would like to reassure the 
estate that I have carefully considered the detailed representations made. And my decision 
will focus on the issues which I consider to be key.
But firstly, I would like to say I am very sorry to hear of Mr Ms loss. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms include a section for cancer treatment. This says:
We do not pay forstem cell or bone marrow treatment or research.
An insurer can decide the level of risk it is willing to take. And can exclude anything it doesnt 
wish to cover. That isnt something I can comment on, even if other insurers are offering 
different levels of cover. What I can consider is whether any exclusions are clear.  
The estate says the exclusion isnt prominent in the literature. Its the terms and conditions 
which make up the contract of insurance between National Friendly and Mrs M. The cancer 
section, which sets out what is covered, and the exclusions, are all together on the same 
page, and next to each other. And so, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing, I dont 
think this information is unclear. 
The estate has also raised customer service issues relating to a mistake made when 
responding to the complaint and the time taken to confirm the proposed treatment wasnt 
covered. National Friendly has apologised for the mistake which I think is reasonable and it 
accepted that it could have managed expectations better. I agree it could have confirmed the 
exclusion earlier when Mrs M first told it in December 2020 that she would need a bone 
marrow transplant. 
Had National Friendly confirmed Mrs Ms proposed treatment was excluded under the terms 
of the policy at an earlier stage, her NHS treatment would still have continued as it did. And 
so I cant say National Friendlys delay caused any material difference to Mrs Ms treatment. 
I also cant hold it responsible for the NHS delays. 
The estate has said National Friendlys literature is misleading as it says it offers extensive 
cancer cover. But extensive cover doesnt necessarily mean every type of treatment will be 
covered. 
The estate has raised a separate complaint about the seller of the policy. This decision 
relates solely to National Friendly and not the sale of the policy so I wont comment on how 
the policy was sold. 
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think National 
Friendly unfairly declined the claim. National Friendly did pay a total of £3,000 as a goodwill gesture when Mrs M was in hospital under NHS care. It did this outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. I think the payments made as a goodwill gesture adequately compensate for 
the error made when responding to the complaint and the delay, between December 2020 
and March 2021, in confirming Mrs Ms proposed treatment was excluded under the terms of 
the policy. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman