DRN-4088439
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt done enough to protect him against the loss of 
money to a scam.
What happened
Mr L is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, for simplicity I will refer to Mr L throughout 
this decision, even when referencing what his representatives have said on his behalf.
Mr L says that he had been looking for an investment opportunity, and in July 2021 he was 
called by someone claiming to be from an investment firm. Ultimately, they persuaded him to 
invest £,8000, in four payments made between 14 and 19 July 2021. But when Mr L was told 
he would then need to pay a further £12,000 in order to withdraw his existing investment, he 
became suspicious and realised that he had fallen victim to a scam.
In early August 2022 Mr L reported to Lloyds that hed been scammed. Ultimately, Lloyds did 
not think it was obliged to refund any of the money lost to Mr L. Mr L remained unhappy, and 
referred his complaint about Lloyds to us. As our investigator (who didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr L authorised the payments himself as he thought he was dealing 
with legitimate companies. Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that Lloyds is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that Mr L authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And Mr L will then be responsible 
for the transactions that he has authorised. 
Because of this, Mr L is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr L when he made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In my opinion, the first three payments  for £500, £600 and £2,000  just werent sufficiently 
unusual to reasonably say Lloyds shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through 
without first getting in touch with Mr L to check everything was in order. In the wider context 
of how Mr L used his account, I cant say that any of these payments were high enough to 
have seemed suspicious or to have stood out to Lloyds. And I cant see there were any 
warnings about the business Mr L paid that ought to have concerned Lloyds. I understand 
the recipient business was involved in cryptocurrency, but not all payments made for 
cryptocurrency are a result of a scam. And in this case I dont think where the payment was 
headed ought to have automatically triggered Lloyds attention.
So as Lloyds didnt interact with Mr L at the time of these payments, Im satisfied it didnt 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent these payments before they were sent.
But the fourth  and last  payment that Mr L made was significantly higher, at £4,900. And 
given the size of this payment and that by this stage a pattern of increasing payments had 
been established, I think Lloyds should have stepped in to query what the payment was for. 
Had it done so there is a possibility that the scam could have been uncovered and this 
payment prevented.
However, just prior to this payment Mr L received several credits into his account from a third 
party. We asked him about these payments as the funds he received on 19 July 2021 added 
up to £4,900, the same amount as the payment he then sent out to his cryptocurrency 
account. Mr L has told us that he was contacted by another individual involved in the scam 
who made these payments to him as proof that he would ultimately be able to withdraw his 
investment. So given that Mr L received payments in that covered his payment of £4,900 
out, I cant agree that he has experienced any financial loss from this last payment. It follows 
that even though I consider this last payment should potentially have been flagged by 
Lloyds, I wont be asking Lloyds to refund it to Mr L. 
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything
further until Mr L notified it hed been scammed. And Mr L has told us this was in early 
August 2022, so likely at least a couple of weeks after the last payment. But Ive nonetheless 
thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds after Mr L reported 
the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank raising an 
indemnity with the receiving bank. 
However, in these circumstances, Mr L transferred money to his own cryptocurrency account 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So while Lloyds had an 
obligation to notify the recipient account provider of what had happened, it wouldnt have the 
same obligations as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the scammers 
account. I also know, from experience of these kinds of cases, that scammers invariably will 
move the proceeds of their scams on very quickly, to avoid them being recalled. So any 
delay in a scam being reported, as there was here, means that the prospect of recovery is 
very slim. With all of this in mind, I dont consider that Lloyds could have done more to 
recover the money that Mr L has lost. 
Lloyds is also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr L under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments which 
the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given 
the payments were made to Mr Ls account before being moved on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr L, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman