DRN-3005167
The complaint
Mrs A complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.  
What happened
Mrs As hire agreement with MBFs was due to end in September 2020. She extended the 
agreement by 3 months to give herself time to choose a new car. The delivery of the new car 
was delayed until 2021, so Mrs A asked MBFS if she could extend the agreement again to 
bridge the gap. This was declined so Mrs A said she would return the car at the end of the 
formal extension (27 December 2020). 
On 21 December 2020 Mrs A called to arrange collection of the car and was advised that 
this couldnt be arranged until January 2021 due to Christmas closures. Mrs A booked 
collection for 5 January 2021 and asked whether she would incur additional charges and 
was told that she wouldnt, because it wasnt her fault that the offices were closed over the 
Christmas period.
The car wasnt collected on 5 January 2021. Mrs As husband called and was told that no 
collection had been booked. He was given the next available collection date of 8 January 
2021.
At collection the car was inspected, and the inspector pointed out damage to the wheels and 
front offside wing.
Mrs A was then charged an incorrect amount for 3 months additional usage. She complained 
and this was amended to an additional 11 days usage, plus damage charges.
Mrs A disputed the charges. In response, MBFS said that Mrs A didnt book a collection until 
5 January 2021 and that she was therefore responsible for the additional usage charges. It 
said the damage charges had ben raised correctly but offered a 10% reduction as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
Mrs A was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He did t think it was fair that MBFS had charged Mrs 
A for additional usage, because the call recordings showed that Mrs A had booked a 
collection for 5 January 2021 and had been advised during this call that she wouldnt be 
charged for usage beyond the end of her contract. The investigator also said that MBFS 
should refund the insurance costs that Mrs A had paid to cover the car from the end of the 
contract up to the time of collection and pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset. In 
relation to the disputed damage charge, the investigator said he didnt think the damage fell 
outside of vehicle returns standards and said the charges should be removed.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that Mrs A had the car in her possession between the end of her 
contract and 8 January 2021 and should be held liable for usage costs. It also said it was 
clear from the inspection report that the dent in the wing fell outside vehicle returns 
standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recordings dated 21 December 2020. In the call with BCA, it was 
confirmed to Mrs A that she had made a booking to have the car collected on 5 January 
2021. Its also clear from the call that Mrs A was advised that she wouldnt incur any charges 
beyond the end of her contract.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. These say that if a car isnt 
returned by the maturity date, extra rental charges will apply.
Based on what Ive seen, Mrs A tried to return the car by the maturity date. It wasnt her fault 
that BCA wasnt open over the Christmas period. Nor was it Mrs As fault that BCA failed to 
collect the car on 5 January 2021. BCA was acting as agent for MBFS, and as such, MBFS 
can be held responsible for things said by BCA. In the call with Mrs A, BCA said she 
wouldnt be charged for usage beyond her contract end date. Im of the view that MBFS is 
estopped from relying on the terms and conditions regarding extra rental charges in the light 
of what BCA said.
In relation to the disputed damage, Ive looked at the inspection report and the photos. Ive 
also had regard to the vehicle returns standards. Whilst I agree that the inspection report 
refers to a  dent with paint damage, I dont think the photos show this clearly. Further , and 
even if there is a dent (which isnt clear), its not possible to  say that the dent exceeds 
13mm, which is the size beyond which dents are deemed unacceptable. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im unable to say that the damage is beyond acceptable wear and tear. Im of the view 
that this element of the damage charges should be refunded. For the avoidance  of doubt, 
theres no dispute about the damage to the wheels and these charges are payable.
Putting things right
On balance, I dont think MBFS has acted fairly by charging extra rental charges. These 
should be refunded. Further, and because Mrs A was inconvenienced when the car wasnt 
collected on 5 January 2021 as arranged, I think MBFS should pay compensation for trouble 
and upset. In addition, because Mrs A had to pay to insure the car for longer whilst she was 
waiting for it to be collected, I think MBFS should refund the insurance costs. 
MBFS should also refund the charges for damage to the bodywork. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must: 
Remove the charge for extra rental
Remove the charge for dent in the wing
Refund £65.53 insurance costs
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman