DRN-4095042
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK Plc gave her unsuitable advice in 2009, when it advised 
her to invest in a fixed term, structured product. In particular, Mrs L says:
-  that the investment was too high risk for her stated attitude to investment risk
- the guaranteed return was only payable if she held the product to maturity
- the products return was linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 and wasnt 
adequately diversified.
Mrs L is represented in this matter by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In August 2009, Santander advised Mrs L to invest £13,975 in a Guaranteed Growth Plan 
with a five and a half year term.
Fact find information recorded in August 2009, set out that Mrs K was 67 years old, retired 
and did not have any financial dependents. Her monthly pension income was around £900. 
She owned her home jointly with her husband and also owned a second property worth 
around £120,000.
The records set out that Mrs L had a total of over £283,000 in deposit based savings, over 
£30,000 of which was held in cash ISAs. Mrs L also had a surplus of income over 
expenditure of around £100 per month. 
Mrs Ls attitude to investment risk was recorded as risk averse.
The adviser noted that Mrs L wasnt happy with the interest rate she was receiving on the 
£27,950 she held in an ISA with Santander. To address this concern the adviser 
recommended that Mrs L should transfer half of the money in her Santander cash ISA 
(£13,975) to its Super cash ISA and invest the other half of the money in her cash ISA in a 
structured product, called a Guaranteed Growth Plan (GGP), held within an ISA wrapper. 
The GGP had a fixed term of five and a half years and offered a guaranteed minimum return 
if the product was held to maturity of 13%.
On maturity of the GGP Mrs L received her original investment, plus 14.2%.  
In May 2022, Mrs Ls CMC complained to Santander on her behalf. It said the advice to 
invest in the GGP had been unsuitable and it wanted Santander to compensate Mrs L.
Santander did not uphold the complaint. It said that as the GGP provided a capital guarantee 
and guaranteed returns, it felt it was suitable for customers with a risk averse risk profile. In 
particular, it noted that Mrs L had over £265,000 in deposit based savings after the GGP 
investment had been made. It also noted that Mrs L had held the investment for the full term 
and had received a return of 14.2% when it matured in March 2015. 
It accepted that the guarantee only applied at maturity. It explained that its adviser had 
checked that Mrs L would be able to hold the plan for the full term, by ensuring that Mrs L 
had suitable cash reserves. 
Mrs Ls representative was not satisfied with Santanders response and referred the 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied that the advice Mrs L had received in 2009 was not unsuitable, based on the 
information that had been recorded about her personal and financial circumstances at that 
time.
Santander responded to say it accepted our investigators view. 
Mrs Ls representative also responded and said it did not accept our investigators view. It 
said: 
I agree with most of your argument and also agree to the reply to the original complaint 
points raised by [name of CMC].
However the crux of the matter is that Mrs L was identified to be a risk averse client. There 
is no ambiguity in this definition, a risk averse client cannot be recommended to take any 
level of risk whatsoever. Im aware that Mrs L had the means to replace any losses and she 
wanted to achieve better returns over the longer term but the recommended product was not 
suitable for someone deemed to be risk averse
Mrs L was classed as a risk averse investor and not someone with a cautious attitude to 
risk. A Capital Protected Product contains some level of risk, however small that might be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the CMC representing Mrs L has said it accepts our investigators view in relation 
to the original complaint points it raised. As this is the case, I have not considered these 
aspects of Mrs Ls complaint any further in this decision, except to say that I agree with our 
investigators view on these points.
What remains in dispute is whether Santander acted incorrectly when it advised Mrs L to 
invest in a GGP, when her stated attitude to investment risk was risk averse. Mrs Ls 
representative says that it is of the view that a risk averse client cannot be recommended 
to take any level of risk whatsoever.
 I have carefully considered the points Mrs Ls CMC has made on this aspect of her 
complaint. Having done so I dont think the advice Mrs L received from Santander was 
unsuitable, nor do I agree that a risk averse investor cannot be recommended to take any 
level of risk whatsoever. Ill explain why.
Mrs L had around £283,000 in deposit based savings at the time the advice was given. She 
invested £13,975 of her deposit based savings in the GGP. So, in total, she invested less 
than 5% of her deposit based savings and had over £269,000 left on deposit after investing 
in the GGP. I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to advise Mrs L, a risk averse 
investor, to tie up less than 5% of her deposit based savings, for a five and a half year term, in a product that guaranteed to return a minimum of the capital invested, plus 13% if held to 
maturity.
The suitability letter Santander sent to Mrs L in August 2009, set out under the heading 
Structured Investment Products:
 
Money is invested for a fixed period (usually 5 years or more) after which time these 
products normally offer the potential for higher returns than those provided from deposit 
based savings accounts. Structured products can give capital security as long as the 
investment is held for the full term. However, if the products are surrendered before maturity, 
there is a risk of receiving back less than the original investment. An example of this type of 
investment is the Guaranteed Growth Plan. 
  
The adviser also set out, in some detail, in the suitability report why he was satisfied that Mrs 
L would  have sufficient cash available to cover any potential needs you have in the short 
term, for example emergency funds, debt repayments and expenditure plans within the next 
five years. This minimises the risk of having to cash in your investments at an inappropriate 
time.
As Mrs L held the GGP to maturity in 2015, and her representative has not made this service 
aware of any difficulties Mrs L experienced in doing so, I cannot reasonably find that the 
advisers view, that Mrs L would be able to leave the £13,975 invested in the GGP to 
maturity, was incorrect. 
Likewise, it is not clear to me why the CMC believes that as Mrs Ls stated attitude to 
investment risk was risk averse she  cannot be recommended to take any level of risk 
whatsoever. I accept that it would not usually be suitable for a consumer with a risk averse 
attitude to risk to invest in structured products, without any guarantees attached. Nor is it 
likely to be suitable for a risk averse consumer to invest a large proportion of their savings 
in equity backed products. But I cannot reasonably agree that advice to invest less than 5% 
of a risk averse consumers savings in a structured product that provided guarantees to 
return the capital invested (plus a minimum of 13%), if the product was held to maturity, was 
unsuitable.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman