DRN-3894862
The complaint
Mr E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include other 
companies and individuals insofar as I hold RSA responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr E is registered disabled. He had a vehicle on contract hire from a company that provides 
vehicles for drivers with disabilities. I will call that company the operations company.
Between them, RSA and the operations company covered the vehicle under arrangements 
set out in a Cover Booklet.
Unfortunately, In January 2022, the passenger doors of Mr Es vehicle were damaged in an 
accident.
RSA appointed a repairer. But Between March 2022 and June 2022, the repairer didnt offer 
a courtesy car, so Mr E didnt send his vehicle to the repairer.
Mr E continued to use the damaged car. Unfortunately, on 20 May 2022, it was in another 
accident and suffered further damage. After that, Mr E couldnt drive the vehicle.
The repairer fixed the vehicle and returned it to Mr E in July 2022.
Mr E had made a number of complaints to RSA.
By a final response dated 13 July 2022, RSA said it would ask the operations company to 
make a Loss of Use payment to Mr E from 20 May 2022. RSA apologised for delays in 
getting the car booked in for repair and offered compensation of £250.00.
Mr E brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that the £250.00 went far enough to address the frustration Mr E felt. She recommended that 
RSA should - on top of the loss of use payment from 20 May 2022 until the car was repaired 
-  increase the compensation by a further £100.00, to total £350.00.
RSA agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr E disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, 
that hes not happy with the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From my reading of the Cover Booklet, it was the operations company rather than RSA that
was responsible for paying for the repair of Mr Es vehicle. The Cover Booklet 
contemplated that the operations company might provide an Alternative Vehicle. 
That booklet also provided that, where Mr Es vehicle could not be used or safely driven as a 
result of loss or damage, the operations company would refund to him that part of his hirers 
allowance (as defined in the contract hire agreement), that is payable as rental for the period 
he was without a vehicle, excluding the first week.
I accept that Mr E had significant difficulty in getting his car booked in for repair because he 
wanted a courtesy car.
Also, on 19 April 2022, Mr E told RSA that he couldnt open his passenger doors, so the car 
wasnt safe to drive. Yet  for about a week - RSA told the repairer that the car was 
driveable. So the repairer still didnt prioritise the repair. And Mr E continued to drive the car 
with its damaged doors. 
In mid-May RSA gave Mr E conflicting information about whether he would receive a hire 
car. After the second accident and the second claim, RSA again gave conflicting information.
From some of the call recordings, I accept that Mr E suffered frustration for a number of 
months.
From about 9 June 2022, Mr Es vehicle was at a repairer.
Mr E has told us that, while he was without the use of a car, he couldnt get to hospital to 
collect his medicine. But Ive seen that, after the second accident and claim, RSA did offer  
some options for Mr E that Ive found reasonable, and he didnt accept any of them. 
I havent found that RSA  as distinct from the operations company - had any obligations in 
relation to repairs and courtesy cars. But Ive weighed up the shortcomings in RSAs service 
and their impact on Mr E. RSA offered Mr E £250.00 compensation and it accepted the 
investigators recommendation to increase that by £100.00 to £350.00. 
Putting things right
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to pay Mr E  in addition to the £250.00 
already offered  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr E  in addition to the £250.00 
already offered  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman