DRN-3497398
The complaint
Mr A says the advice given and the arrangements made by Independent Financial Services 
4 You Ltd (IFS4Y), trading as Expat IFA Ltd, resulting in the transfer of his defined benefit 
(DB) pension to an alternative provider was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr A says that while working in Dubai in 2016 he was approached by a local financial 
adviser, Prestige Wealth Services (PWS) about his pension arrangements. He says that the 
adviser was a persuasive and charismatic individual who quickly gained his trust. He says 
the adviser addressed all his questions optimistically. Mr A says the adviser guided him in 
terms of what to say in completing certain documents.
IFS4Y points to a member information form issued by his DB pension provider, which Mr A 
signed on 6 September 2016. This recorded that he started planning for his retirement and 
taking advice, he reviewed the market and contacted a number of potential advisers. PWS 
was recommended, hed engaged it and it was responsible for progressing matters for him.
At the time of the events complained about PWS wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). IFS4Y notes that it was covered by the Dubai financial regulator.
PWS gathered information from Mr A about his circumstances and objectives. These were 
summarised in the following terms:
- Mr A was British and married. He had three non-dependent children. He was 49, 
currently working in Dubai, had been overseas since 2014 and intended to remain so 
for the foreseeable future. When he retired this was likely to be in the UK.
- Mr A was said to feel that the most important aspect of his pensions were the 
benefits for his spouse and children and the level of income on an annual basis.
Mr As main pension was an OPS. Hed accrued benefits over 24 years of service with the 
same employer. This comprised two elements. A defined benefit (DB) scheme which had a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £291,042. When this scheme had been 
closed he joined his companys money purchase scheme to which both he and his employer 
contributed. According to PWSs report, at the time the defined contribution (DC) element of 
his main pension was worth around £213,742.
Mr A also had personal pensions with Standard Life, Friends Life and Legal & General. 
Together these were said by PWS to have a transfer value at the time of around £95,000.
On 12 June 2016 PWS recommended that Mr A transfer all his pension funds to a Self- 
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Momentum. It advised an underlying Old Mutual 
International Executive Redemption Bond as the vehicle for holding and investing his 
monies. It said the main benefits of the SIPP would be his ability to pass 100% of the fund 
value to his beneficiaries and increased flexibility when drawing income.
Mr A appears to have accepted PWSs recommendations.
On 28 June 2016 Mercer, Mr As main pension scheme administrator, wrote to PWS 
providing a transfer value for the DB element of that scheme. This had been calculated on 
25 April 2016.
On 14 July 2016 Mr A signed an application to his then OPS provider to proceed with the 
transfer of all his benefits into the Momentum SIPP. This incorporated various statements 
about what he understood to be requirements of progressing. This included a statement that 
if the safeguarded benefits under his scheme was over £30,000 hed need a written 
statement from an authorised independent adviser confirming it had provided him with 
specific advice on the matter and that it was a regulated firm for this purpose.
On 16 August 2016 Mercer sent queries to PWS concerning the transfer of Mr As OPS, 
stating that matters couldnt proceed until these had been addressed. This included gaining 
assurance that hed received appropriate independent advice about his safeguarded pension 
benefits. It was a requirement of the FCA that such advice was provided by a regulated firm.
On 17 August 2017 IFS4Y says it was engaged by PWS via its portal for third parties to 
procure its advice on the viability of transferring defined pension benefits to non- 
safeguarded arrangements, for the benefit of international clients. IFS4Y was a firm 
regulated by the FCA with permissions to advise on the transfer of pensions.
On the same day Mr A signed forms headed with IFS4Ys branding, presumably downloaded 
from its portal by PWS, which were to record his attitude to risk and his reasons for 
considering the transfer of his DB scheme funds.
Mr A says he wasnt aware of IFS4Y. And he says he never had any contact with it at any 
stage throughout the advice and transfer process.
On 2 Sept 2016 Mercer confirmed for PWS the transfer value for Mr As (DB) scheme was 
secured, however it referred to its communication of 16 August 2016 stating that it couldnt 
proceed until all the matters it had raised previously had been dealt with.
A separate company was commissioned by IFS4Y to produce a pension transfer value 
analysis. This was delivered to it on 5 September 2016.
On 8 September 2016 PWS wrote to Mercer enclosing a Member information form, which 
had been completed by Mr A two days earlier. The purpose of the form was to provide some 
assurance to it about the circumstances surrounding his wish to transfer from his OPS 
scheme.
On 13 October 2016 IFS4Y says it sent a letter to Mr A at the address it had been given by 
PWS. This didnt provide any recommendations, but it concluded in terms that the transfer 
was moderately unlikely to increase the value of his pension in retirement. But that he might 
feel the advantages of a personal pension were sufficient to justify the transfer.
Mr A says he never received IFS4Ys letter.
On 18 October 2016 IFS4Y provided Mercer with confirmation that Mr A had been given 
advice about his deferred DB rights and the transfer of his funds to an alternative pension 
arrangement. Appended to this letter was an Appropriate Independent Advice Statement, 
this was dated 13 October 2016.
I understand that Mr As Standard Life and Legal & General pension funds worth about £ 
68,000 were switched to his Momentum SIPP during August 2016. And that his OPS benefits (both the DB and DC elements), were transferred in March 2017 with a combined 
value of around £588,128.
Mr A complained to IFS4Y in March 2020 about what had happened to his pension 
arrangements in 2016. He said hed never received advice about his DB pension. That the 
report it had produced had gone to the wrong address. If hed received the report hed have 
queried the proposed transfer. And that because of moving his funds hed suffered financial 
detriment. IFS4Y rejected Mr As complaint and so he brought his case to this Service. He 
said:
I was a member of a company pension scheme for a significant time. The scheme was 
administered by Mercer. In 2012 I left the company after 24 years of service. I got a job in 
the Middle East and in 2015/2016 I was approached by Prestige Wealth Services who gave 
me advice that the only way to ensure my family got 100% of the pension fund when I 
passed away I needed to move my pension to a SIPP and convinced me (I am still very 
nave around pensions/finance) that I should move it.
They did not inform me that Mercer where not keen to transfer the funds and needed proof 
from a UK based independent adviser that I had been given appropriate advice. They also 
did not tell me that the scheme that I was transferring to had much higher charges with it.
PWS engaged IFS 4 You LTD who confirmed with Mercer that they had given me advice, 
advice that I never received. On the basis of IFS 4 You LTD's declaration Mercer proceeded 
to transfer the pension funds. The pension was a defined benefits scheme with significant 
funds and well managed by Mercer. The funds were transferred to an overseas SIPP with a 
company in Malta.
An Investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He didnt think Mr A had received IFS4Ys report. 
And he didnt think it had any direct communications with him, despite what was provided for 
in the contract it had with PWS. Overall, he didnt think Mr A wouldve proceeded with the 
transfer of his main OPS benefits had he received its advice.
IFS4Y rejected the Investigators findings and provided a detailed response. Amongst other 
matters, its argued:
- Its contract (and therefore obligation), was to PWS not Mr A.
- It had reasonably relied on information provided to it by PWS regarding the correct 
postal address for Mr A.
- There was serious doubt that Mr A hadnt received its advice because the address it 
used was sufficiently accurate to be delivered and that he was on notice such advice 
would be provided because of the IFS4Y forms hed completed, so hed be expecting 
it and likely enquire if it hadnt been received.
- Any obligations arising from Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 to ensure 
Mr A received appropriate advice fell to the trustees of his main OPS via Mercer.
- And because Mr As main priority for his pensions had been the distribution of his 
benefits in the event of his death, hed have gone ahead with the transfer in any 
event.
Because both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr As 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. This is the final stage of our process. I issued 
provisional decisions in March and May. Im grateful for the detailed responses provided by 
IFS4Y, which Ive considered carefully. Ill deal with any new material arguments its raised in 
its latest submission in this final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
IFS4Y has made arguments about the culpability of PWS and Mercer. What it says about 
these and any other relevant parties may or may not be accurate. But this Service cant join 
third parties to a complaint to help shed light on whats happened. Whilst we do have powers 
to require parties to a complaint to provide information to us, we cant compel anyone who 
isnt a party to the complaint to provide evidence.
IFS4Y will be aware, a court does have powers to compel third parties to give evidence and 
to be cross examined. Its free to pursue other parties it feels may have been responsible to 
whatever degree for whats happened to Mr A and for exposing it to any part of the claims 
and costs that it now faces. But thats not something this Service can help with.
Im upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr As case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by IFS4Y for Mr A. The FCA Handbook contains 11 Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like IFS4Y. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr As complaint.
At the time of the advice IFS4Y gave Mr A, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a (DB)s occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, IFS4Y was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr A to be able to 
make an informed decision.
- Give Mr A a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr A understood its comparison and its 
advice.
In simple terms, IFS4Y had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr A on what to do.
COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a 
retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging (bringing 
about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In its last submission IFS4Y noted what Id said about this being an informal Service for 
resolving disputes between businesses and their customers. That we determine complaints 
by what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. It says that by citing FCA 
rules to support my argument Ive overstepped the legislative framework I must operate 
within. It says the Service has no legal power to cite FCA rules in any of its determinations. 
And that by doing so we open up our decisions to judicial review.
Taking action to judicially review this Services well established approach to decision making 
is a matter for IFS4Y. I thought it might be helpful to set out what the FCA Handbook says 
about this matter (DISP 3.6.4):
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1.) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2.) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
So, as well as considering the facts, evidence and circumstances of every case. Its clear the 
regulatory framework will always be something we must take into account in our decision 
making.Did IFS4Y meet the regulatory obligations placed on it in its dealings with Mr A?
I dont think IFS4Y met its regulatory obligations  Ill explain why.
I start by making some observations about PWSs involvement. At the time it gave advice to 
Mr A it wasnt regulated in the UK. Ive not seen evidence that it was aware of the 
requirements of the FCA regime. I say this because its approach to IFS4Y to carry out work 
in relation to his DB scheme was only initiated after being prompted by the scheme 
administrator.
Mercer was correctly insistent Mr A should receive independent regulated advice.
PWSs report with recommendations to Mr A about what he should do with his pension 
provisions was dated 12 June 2016. It said he should transfer all his pensions into a SIPP. 
He appears to have accepted the recommendations shortly afterwards. I say this because 
funds from his personal pension plans started to be received into his SIPP as early as 2 
August 2016.
PWSs process was flawed in several respects. For example it had recommended the 
transfer of Mr As DB provision before regulated advice had been delivered.
Further, based on the evidence Ive seen PWS failed to gather the necessary information 
from Mr A about his circumstances, objectives or attitude to risk (ATR) to enable it to provide 
effective advice. I cant see that it properly assessed his knowledge and experience of 
pension and investment matters. And I cant see that it sought meaningful information from 
him about his retirement plans and requirements.
In its most recent submission, IFS4Y says that in setting out these matters Ive accepted that 
it was PWS that provided Mr A with advice and recommendations in relation to the transfer 
of his DB benefits. And therefore that IFS4Y wasnt responsible. That is a mis-reading of my 
decision. 
While its clear PWS did initially provide advice to him about what he should do with his 
safeguarded benefits, matters couldnt proceed on that basis because it wasnt regulated to 
provide such advice. IFS4Y was engaged to provide him with regulated advice. And thats 
where its duty of care to Mr A was initiated in relation to that transaction.
Obviously Im not required to make any findings in respect of PWS. The reason I make these 
observations about what appear to be fundamental weaknesses in its approach, is because 
IFS4Y chose to contract with it.
IFS4Y knew, or shouldve known, that PWS wasnt a UK regulated company. And while 
businesses that wanted to use its services had to accept a limited set of terms and 
conditions, its not clear what due diligence it undertook on PWS.
At a basic level, IFS4Y was reliant on information PWS had gathered. Despite obvious 
weaknesses in this, its not clear it sought to clarify or augment what was available. Its not 
clear what it knew about how far down the advisory process PWS was with Mr A. Its not 
clear if IFS4Y received a copy of its financial planning report for Mr A of 12 June 2016.
Of course the business model, processes and governance arrangements put in place by a 
firm are matters for it to decide. Nevertheless, whether it chooses a light-touch arrangement 
or something more comprehensive will necessarily determine the risks it then takes into its 
own organisation.Thats especially the case here because IFS4Y was a regulated firm with specific 
permissions to undertake the work commissioned by PWS. It knew, or shouldve known, the 
regulatory framework it had to work within.
IFS4Ys relationship with Mr A
IFS4Y has made several arguments which seek to place Mr A at arms-length. It says its 
relationship was with PWS. It refers to the following COBS provisions in the FCA handbook 
to make its case (square brackets indicate IFS4Ys view of the status of the parties in this 
complaint as related to the clause).
COBS 2.4.3 R
1 .If a firm (F)[IFY4S] is aware that a person (C1) [PWS] with or for whom it is providing 
services is acting as agent for another person (C2) [Mr A] in relation to those 
services, C1, and not C2, is the client of F in respect of that business.
IFS4Y didnt reference the next clause:
2 . Paragraph (1) does not apply if:
a. F has agreed with C1 in writing to treat C2 as its client; or
b. C1 is neith er a firm nor an overseas financial services institution and the 
main purpose of the arrangements between the parties is the avoidance of 
duties that F would otherwise owe to C2.
If this is the case, C2 is the client of F in respect of that business and C1 is not.
Im not persuaded by IFS4Ys arguments in this regard.
Firstly, I dont think clause 1 applied because of the exceptions at clause 2 (a) and (b).
Its necessary to consider the meaning given to certain words in COBS. For example, a 
client is a person to whom a firm provides, intends to provide or has provided a service in the 
course of carrying on a regulated activity. And we should be mindful that PWS wasnt FCA 
regulated. So, no status can be assigned to it under COBS 2.4.3 R as IFS4Y has sought to 
do.
With these thoughts in mind, lets consider key extracts from the terms and conditions that 
PWS had to sign-up to with IFS4Y:
Under UK legislation, where a member of a UK pension scheme is considering transferring 
certain Safeguarded Benefits' out of that scheme (or converting those safeguarded benefits 
to other benefits under the same scheme), that person is required to take 'Appropriate 
Independent Advice' from a UK-regulated financial adviser.
Your client will receive overall advice on the possibility of transferring their benefits from 
their UK pension scheme [from IFS4Y], it is then down to you as their financial adviser to 
make a recommendation.
This 'Appropriate Independent Advice' is limited to advising your client on (i) the level of 
investment return required in any new pension into which your client transfers their existing 
benefits, in order to provide pension benefits that approximately equal those provided by the 
UK pension scheme, and (ii) in our opinion whether or not your client is likely, following a 
transfer of benefits from the UK pension scheme to a new scheme, to match or increase the 
level of their pension benefits in retirement compared to those that would be provided by the 
UK pension scheme.All the information within the AIA report is based on the online fact find, attitude to risk and 
reasons for considering the transfer documents completed by you as the client's financial 
adviser, which provides details of your client's circumstances, together with information 
obtained from the UK pension scheme. Expat IFA Ltd is not providing your client with any 
financial advice other than that described in (i) and (ii) above, as required by UK legislation. 
Expat IFA Ltd will not make a recommendation to your client about whether or not they 
should transfer their benefits out of the UK pension scheme.
That recommendation will be made by you as the client's financial adviser. We are unable to 
take responsibility if any of the information provided by you as the client's financial adviser is 
incorrect.
To advise your client properly we'll need you to provide information about their personal and 
financial circumstances 
Expat IFA Ltd will only contact your client for confirmation that they have requested to 
receive advice regarding their UK pension Scheme and to deliver a copy of the AIA report.
As the terms and conditions make clear. Mr A had to seek advice from a regulated firm 
before transferring from his DB scheme. IFS4Y was the regulated firm which provided that 
advice. It had to make contact with him at the outset to confirm he had requested the advice, 
and then to deliver that advice. I think Mr A was a client for the work it did  so 2.4.3 (2)(a) 
applies.
I note that IFS4Y has had several opportunities to confirm that it was in touch with Mr A at 
the outset to ask if hed requested advice. He says he never had any contact with it. So, I 
must conclude it didnt. Had IFS4Y contacted Mr A, it mayve started to uncover some of the 
serious issues Ive already set out with PWSs approach and processes. And I think its more 
likely than not hed have wanted to explore matters with it in some detail, given the 
importance of the matters in hand.
I note that the terms and conditions PWS signed are carefully constructed. Its arguable this 
is because they seek to avoid duties IFS4Y had to Mr A, in the way envisaged in 2.4.3 (2b). 
The terms and conditions it wanted to apply to agreements with other business entities is a 
matter for it. But it cant use these as a device to abdicate responsibilities it had under FCA 
regulation, as an authorised firm with permissions to provide regulated advice about pension 
transfers.
IFS4Y are the regulated business in the transaction with Mr A. PWS was not. IFS4Y had 
permissions to advise on pension transfers. PWS did not. Referring to the principles which 
governed this work  IFS4Y had to provide its service with skill, care and diligence. It had to 
act in Mr As best interests. It had to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. As I will go on to demonstrate  it didnt do these things.
The requirements placed on the DB scheme trustees to ensure proper advice was received
IFS4Y have said that any obligations arising from Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015 to ensure Mr A received appropriate advice fell to the trustees of his main pension 
scheme via the administrator Mercer. The following clauses (Regulations 2015) are relevant:
3. For the purposes of the definition of appropriate independent advice in section 
48(8) of the Act, the advice must be specific to the type of relevant transaction 
proposed by the member or survivor.
4. For the purposes of the definition of authorised independent adviser in section 
48(8) of the Act, the specified regulated activity is the activity described in article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order(d) (advising on conversion or transfer of 
pension benefits).
7. Confirmation from the member or survivor that appropriate independent advice has 
been received must be in the form of a statement in writing from the authorised 
independent adviser providing the advice confirming (a) that advice has been 
provided which is specific to the type of transaction proposed by the member or 
survivor; (b) that the adviser has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000(c), or resulting from any other provision of that Act, to carry 
on the regulated activity in article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order; (c) the firm 
reference number of the company or business in which the adviser works for the 
purposes of authorisation from the FCA to carry on the regulated activity in article 
53E of the Regulated Activities Order; and (d) the members or survivors name, 
and the name of the scheme in which the member or survivor has subsisting rights 
in respect of safeguarded benefits to which the advice given applies.
11. When the trustees or managers have received the confirmation that appropriate 
independent advice has been received, they must check that the company or 
business providing that advice has permission to carry on the regulated activity 
under article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order by checking the Financial 
Services Register maintained by the FCA
As established, IFS4Y completed an Appropriate Independent Advice Statement on 13 
October 2016, the same day it issued its advice letter to Mr A. It then sent this along with a 
covering statement to the trustees of his DB scheme on 18 October 2016. In doing so it led 
Mercer to believe it had fulfilled its obligations in providing proper regulated advice to him.
Like the Investigator, from the evidence available I cant see that Mercer failed in its 
regulatory duties in relation to Section 48 of the Pensions Act. It seems to me it refused to 
allow the transfer of Mr As DB funds until certain conditions had been met, including the 
provision to him of independent, regulated and qualified advice. IFS4Y informed them the 
requirements set out in regulation had been met. Without IFS4Ys confirmation this was so, 
the transaction wouldnt have proceeded.
Did Mr A receive IFS4Ys advice report?
IFS4Ys response to my first provisional decision considered in some detail the question of 
whether Mr A had received its suitability report.
Mr A has said that he never had any contact with IFS4Y. And its case file appears to indicate 
it never spoke to him.
Mr A also says he never received the advice letter from it dated 13 October 2016. Hes told 
this Service had he done so hed have investigated further and wouldve taken a different 
course of action.
We know the transfer of Mr As DB pension went ahead. So, there are two possibilities here 
 either Mr A didnt receive the suitability report and proceeded with the transfer based on 
whatever PWS was advising him; or he has mis-remembered, he did receive the report and 
proceeded with the transfer and now regrets his decision.
I can see the address on the suitability letter IFS4Y produced for Mr A dated 13 October 
2016 was:
[A redacted for data protection purposes]Mr A said the address IFS4Y used wasnt one he recognised. He sent a copy of a utility bill 
which showed his address as:
[B redacted for data protection purposes]
Mr A has shared an instruction form filled out for a discretionary portfolio service run by 
Quilter Cheviot. The form appears to have been completed by PWS but was signed by him 
on 6 September 2016. It recorded his address as:
[C redacted for data protection purposes]
And Mr A has said his correct physical address for his residence in Dubai was:
[D redacted for data protection purposes]
Its clearly odd to see so many different versions of Mr As address. Id simply observe that 
the address IFS4Y used was most at odds with the others.
IFS4Y said it sent the suitability report to the address it had been provided by PWS. And 
presumably it had taken the details from Mr A. It went on to say:
The address is not for a totally different building. In that regard, we would re-emphasise that 
[Mr A] initially recognised this address as his old flat and only asserted that it was not his 
residence in his formal complaint. It seems to us, therefore, that it is safe to assume that at 
the very least, the report [IFS4Y] sent to [Mr A] reached the building in which his flat was 
situated. We cannot speculate on what happened next, but we understand that this building 
operated a 24-hour concierge service who, presumably, would have either recognised [Mr 
As] name on the letter and taken it to his flat or taken some steps to enquire with the 
residents if this letter was meant for them. Either way, such problems cannot be fairly 
attributed to [IFS4Y] when it has used the address it was given in good faith.
IFS4Y responded to my first provisional decision by saying I had concluded as a matter of 
fact that Mr A hadnt received its advice. Thats not quite right.
I acknowledged IFS4Ys position wasnt without merit. I note the terms and conditions it 
agreed with PWS said it would make contact with him to deliver a copy of the suitability 
report. And having looked at the address of the letter it prepared and the address for Mr As 
apartment, I agree that there were similarities. I can also see it used the address recorded 
by PWS on its fact-find.
But there is also a significant possibility Mr A didnt receive IFS4Ys letter because:
- There were variations between the address IFS4Y says it sent the suitability letter to 
and the address hes confirmed.
- Mr A says PWS knew his address for correspondence was his office. This is the 
route it had used. He says it was normal for people in Dubai to have post delivered to 
their place of work. Ive checked and there is evidence of this as established practice 
in the Emirate.
- Theres an argument that given IFS4Ys client base, it shouldve been aware of 
varying postal arrangements in different jurisdictions.
In its latest submission IFS4Y says that I was suggesting it shouldve sent sensitive client 
information to a business address because it was customary. In its view it thought that would 
be a breach of GDPR regulations. It says its written to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) to seek clarification. Its asked me to delay my final determination until its had a response. Ive thought carefully about what its said, but I dont see any reason to delay my 
decision. 
The point Ive been making is that IFS4Y shouldve researched the postal arrangements in 
Dubai. And it shouldve adjusted its approach to communicating with Mr A accordingly, doing 
so within the applicable rules and regulations. There were several alternatives that couldve 
been explored with him by phone to make suitable arrangements for his receipt of its report 
including using his UK address or email. It hasnt met its obligation of a duty of care to Mr A 
in this matter.
I note the nature of the Service IFS4Y thought it was providing and its focus on the contract 
it had with PWS and keeping Mr A at arms-length. For example following him raising 
concerns with it about what had happened in 2016, IFS4Y outlined the process that was 
followed (bolding is my emphasis):
I have spoken to [the IFS4Y adviser who conducted the pension transfer advice] and 
he has no record of speaking to you, on occasion some individuals would contact [him] if 
they had a question about the analysis letter provided but this was not a common 
occurrence as most questions were answered by their adviserIt may help if I outline the 
process which took place:
Expat IFA provided a service to your adviser at Prestige Wealth Solutions to review, 
analyse and advise on the viability of transferring your pension from your existing scheme. In 
order to do this Expat IFA were provided with your personal information, reason for transfer, 
risk appetite and pension data that had been collated by your adviser.
Once the transfer analysis was completed the letter was then sent to you and your 
adviser at Prestige Wealth Solutions for him to go through with you and allow you to 
make an informed decision as to whether to proceed with the transfer and sign the 
application or maintain your membership to the existing scheme.
I cant be certain if Mr A received IFS4Ys advice letter or not. But given the information 
available to me Ive concluded its more likely than not he didnt.
There is then the supplementary consideration about why that was the case. Was Mr A 
culpable for not relaying his correct address to PWS. Or was PWS responsible for recording 
things incorrectly? The fact-find produced by it and relied on by IFS4Y is basic and 
unsigned.
Ultimately, I find the matter of Mr As address details in the circumstances of the case 
somewhat less significant than IFS4Ys relevant failings. It had an obligation to treat its 
customers fairly (that means Mr A and not PWS) and use due care, skill and diligence. It 
failed to do these things.
IFS4Ys own terms and conditions said:
Expat IFA Ltd will only contact your client for confirmation that they have requested to 
receive advice regarding their UK pension Scheme and to deliver a copy of the AIA 
report.
Leaving aside the inadequacies of these terms given its regulatory obligations to Mr A, Ive 
not seen evidence that it even fulfilled its own requirements.
I note IFS4Y contacted PWS several times in May 2020 to seek information about how it had 
relayed the advice it had prepared to Mr A. For example, early that month it asked PWS the 
following (bolding is my emphasis):Please confirm the date that the suitability letter we provided via our online portal was 
presented and discussed with the client.
PWS failed to respond satisfactorily. So IFS4Y pressed it again:
We have a record of PWS agreeing to the Expat IFA terms and conditions for the online 
portal, commissioning and paying for the service used to contract Expat IFA to conduct 
research into the suitability of a UK defined benefit pension transfer for [Mr A].
By agreeing to the terms and conditions of the online portal, PWS contracted Expat IFA to 
research and provide advice in respect of [Mr As] Pension. The terms and conditions of 
use of the portal Include, confirmation of the date that the PWS representative gave 
to, and discussed with, [Mr A] suitability letter provided by ExpatIFA.
PWS didnt respond and so IFS4Y wrote again saying:
I repeat the question, please could you check the records and provide the date the letter was 
passed to, and discussed with, [Mr A]. Without an adequate response, might I only be 
able to draw a conclusion that the letter was not discussed with [Mr A] by the PWS 
adviser, prior to PWS advising him to transfer his DB Pension Scheme.
No response was forthcoming.
Wanting to check to make sure PWS had fulfilled its obligations under the terms and 
conditions it had with it was a reasonable thing for IFS4Y to have done. Unfortunately its 
efforts came rather late in the day. Why werent these checks built into its compliance regime 
so that they could bite at the relevant time  prior to the transfer of Mr As DB pension? This 
was a failing.
By its own admission, IFS4Y considered its contractual responsibility was to PWS  that was 
its focus. It placed Mr A at arms-length. It never spoke to Mr A. Relying on sending a copy of 
its suitability letter via PWS wasnt enough. It had a regulatory obligation to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that Mr A understood its pension transfer analysis and advice. Given the 
importance of the matters at hand, it hasnt satisfied me that it did this.
IFS4Y did have contact with the trustees of Mr As OPS. It assured them that their member 
had received advice. The only reasons Mr As former provider agreed to the transfer was 
because of the assurance IFS4Y had given it. So the onus was on it to know that Mr A had 
received such advice. And its failed to demonstrate how it secured such.
IFS4Y says Mr A wouldve been on notice that hed be receiving its advice letter of 13 
October 2016. This was because hed signed forms (related to his risk appetite and reasons 
for transferring), that were on IFS4Y headed paper.
IFS4Y says Mr A also completed an application in July 2016 to proceed with the transfer of 
his safeguarded benefits, which he signed to say hed received advice from a regulated 
adviser. It says, as these were completed before hed even received such advice, this 
caused a delay to proceedings so that PWS could source appropriate advice.
Further, IFS4Y notes Mr A signed a Member Information Form on 6 September 2016 for his 
Mercer pension provider. This was to acknowledge hed read and understood the Pension 
Regulators scam-proof your savings, which included guidance about checking which 
advisors were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
IFS4Y says Mr A was a highly educated man with extensive business experience. It says he 
initiated contact with an adviser and appears to have had access to a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for his DB scheme prior to PWSs involvement. It questioned his 
description of himself as being financially nave. It says he wouldve understood the forms he 
signed and appreciated the different roles being carried out by PWS and itself. It says it finds 
it difficult to believe he didnt understand the benefits he was giving up.
Ive thought about these arguments, and I dont find them persuasive. By its own design, 
IFS4Y had no contact with Mr A. It seems most likely the forms he signed were downloaded 
by PWS on the day it contacted IFS4Y for the first time. And Mr A says he was given forms 
by PWS, some of which he signed without completing as these were to be dealt with later.
It seems PWS had already persuaded Mr A to transfer all his pension provision before 
IFS4Ys involvement. Indeed he signed to say hed received regulated advice in July 2016 
when we know he hadnt. 
On this specific matter, IFS4Ys has said in its most recent submission that it believes he did 
so because he was deliberately trying to circumvent having to obtain UK regulated advice. 
My own view based on all the evidence available to me is that it more likely than not exhibits 
his lack of awareness of what was required by the regulator in terms of the pension advice 
he was receiving.
When IFS4Y did become involved Im not satisfied the branding or the content of the forms 
Mr A completed wouldve alerted him to the significance of the work it would be undertaking. 
And although he signed a Mercer form to indicate hed read a leaflet about firms which were 
FCA regulated, this isnt enough to make me think the onus was on him to chase a suitability 
letter he says he never received.
Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr A was experienced or knowledgeable of 
pension matters or the regulations surrounding them. I remain of the view that he more likely 
than not wasnt aware of the extent of regulatory obligations placed on IFYS4 or how these 
shouldve practically manifested in how it interacted with him.
IFS4Y says this Service hasnt completed a full discovery of the evidence necessary to 
arrive at a fair decision. It said because of the delay between the initiation of the transfer of 
Mr As DB pension and when it took place, a new cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
wouldve been required. This meant hed have needed to complete another set of transfer 
documents, which wouldve made clear again to him that he shouldve had advice from it 
about the transfer.
I disagree with IFS4Y. I note that in its own suitability letter to Mr A dated 13 October 2013 it 
said:
The CETV has now expired. However, the existing scheme administrators have 
confirmed in writing that the CETV value is secured/held.
And the CETV value it advised Mr A in its suitability report of £291,042.29 is consistent with 
the relevant amounts quoted in a letter from Mercer to Momentum dated 14 March 2017 
showing the amounts actually transferred.
Even if there had been another set of papers for Mr A to sign, given how far down the road 
hed have been at that stage, its not persuaded me this shouldve made a difference to the 
outcome, given the matters Ive already set out.
In its last submission IFS4Y says it believes Mr A did receive its advice. And that the onus 
had been on him to have sought it out had he not received it. Ive set out my findings on 
these matters, but leaving these aside for the moment, I think its helpful to consider the substance of the advice it produced for PWS and Mr A. Having done so - and even if I 
accepted Mr A more likely than not received its suitability report, which I dont - Ive 
concluded this doesnt provide IFS4Y with a defensible position. Ill explain why.
The advice produced by IFS4Y for Mr A
It seems reasonable to assume that PWS received the suitability letter for Mr As pension 
transfer via IFS4Ys portal. It shouldve had a telling influence on how it proceeded. But I 
think its more likely than not it failed to effectively explain the contents to him.
Mr A told us that if hed received the advice letter from IFS4Y of 13 October 2016, then he 
wouldnt have proceeded. I can understand why Mr A might say this now. But Im not sure 
its that clear cut.
Given PWSs position in the events of 2016, the way it held the ring between Mr A and 
IFS4Y, and the latters effective absence in the overall process from Mr As perspective, 
theres an argument that had he received the suitability letter hed still have proceeded with 
the transfer of his DB benefits.
While I think hed have discussed any suitability letter with PWS, I cant be certain what the 
outcome wouldve been. I say this because:
- He was already someway down the road in transferring his pensions before IFS4Y 
was engaged. He had no contact with the latter. The advice wouldve seemed to 
have confirmed the transaction would deliver his main objectives.
- As Ill establish, the advice was lacking in many areas and didnt provide a 
recommendation.
- I cant be confident PWS wouldve been motivated or sufficiently capable of 
impartially explaining the findings or identifying and pointing out the problems with 
the advice.
Ive also listened to the introductory call Mr A had with our Investigator. On reviewing the 
advice letter after receiving a copy since raising his concerns, he noted this wasnt negative 
in terms of moving ahead with the transfer. And that the main driver for moving his pension 
was because he wanted to ensure in the event of his death the benefits would pass to his 
beneficiaries.
IFS4Y has argued that Mr A did receive its report, and so presumably that he proceeded to 
transfer his DB pension in light of such. Its also argued that whatever he did or didnt 
receive, hed have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. It cited his objective around death 
benefits, and in its latest submission that hed have received advantageous tax treatment on 
his pension funds given he planned to stay offshore for the foreseeable future.
Ive concluded its more likely than not if Mr A had received the suitability letter from IFS4Y in 
October 2016, hed still have proceeded with the transfer. I say this because it was a poor 
report which didnt do what it was required to.
Given all these considerations, its important to examine the adequacy of IFS4Ys advice to 
Mr A, under the regulations it was bound by.
The regulatory position sets a high bar, which IFS4Y had to be able to clearly demonstrate 
was met, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer was in Mr As best interests. Im 
not satisfied its managed to do this in the circumstances of this case.Ive already set out the information gathered by PWS about his circumstances and 
objectives. These were supplemented by information captured in the two forms about his risk 
appetite and his reasons for considering the transfer of his DB benefits.
Im surprised that IFS4Y considered the information it had been provided was sufficient to 
proceed. It was lacking in many respects. But I cant see it followed up with PWS to seek 
more information, for example about his financial position or his retirement requirements. 
And it didnt contact Mr A.
Mr As top reasons for considering the transfer from his DB scheme were said to be (in order 
of priority):
-The distribution of his residual pension benefits in the event of his death.
-That income from his pension was paid out in the most tax-efficient manner.
-The option of a flexible income in retirement.
-Flexibility to take his pension benefits as and when he wanted to.
-The ability to have some input with the direction of his retirement fund.
Mr As objectives as recorded are not compelling. They are not specific, measurable or time-
related. Mr A was nearly 50 at the time of the advice, theres no information about his target 
date for retirement. Nor is there information about his pension income requirements. Theres 
no rationale about why this was the right time for Mr A to transfer his benefits, rather than 
say in 5 or 10 years.
Theres a significant focus on Mr A being able to pass benefits to his family in the event of 
his death. Hes confirmed this was the biggest driver in his mind. While its a natural and 
strong desire to make good provision for your family, theres no indication he was in ill- 
health.
As IFS4Y knew, Mr A had a reasonable expectation of living until he was 85 and his wife 
until she was 89. And there was a significant possibility one or both would survive beyond 
this. By moving his funds away from a scheme which provided protections and guarantees 
for life, to one where his benefits would be dependent on market performance, there was a 
risk his provision would be exhausted during his lifetime.
Focussing on the inheritance of any residual benefits after his passing is a second order 
consideration in normal circumstances, when weighing the merits of pension transfers from 
DB schemes.
Ive seen no evidence of an attempt by IFS4Y to get to the bottom of these important 
questions. I think this wouldve been important to Mr A being able to take an informed view 
about the transfer of his OPS benefits. IFS4Y hasnt done enough to satisfy me the process 
it followed was thorough, and therefore fair.
Ive concluded Mr As main stated objective provided a weak rationale for the transfer of his 
OPS benefits. Rather than exploring matters further, IFS4Y appears to have simply reflected 
what it was told via PWS. By its own design, its direct interaction with him was non-existent. 
And as Ive set out, it seems more likely than not it had no successful communication with 
him whatsoever.
IFS4Y was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr A about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for retirement. And when benefits are transferred there need to be 
compelling reasons. Thats not the case here based on the available evidence.
It was IFS4Ys role to discern what Mr As wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what it thought he wanted without any critical thinking. And it wasnt 
providing a basic transactional service to PWS. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do 
these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt demonstrated that it met 
these obligations.
In its last submission IFS4Y made an argument around Mr As ability to take benefits from 
his DB pension funds from the age of 55 if hed transferred it. He was 49 at the time of the 
advice, working in Dubai and expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. IFS4Y says 
that had he remained resident there he couldve drawn benefits tax free given the double tax 
treaty between the UK and UAE. 
This is a reasonable argument to make, but Im not persuaded by it for several reasons. For 
example, the financial planning report produced by PWS for Mr A in June 2016, while 
recognising the possibility of such an approach, also noted the uncertainties at that time:
Given the time you have until you can access your pension, your current circumstances and 
future plans to retire in the UK, our preliminary advice would be to transfer your current 
scheme to a SIPP. Aside from consolidating all your schemes, our advice is largely based on 
the fact that you have yet to complete five full and consecutive tax years outside the UK
Mr As more recent testimony appears to add weight to what PWS indicated in 2016, he 
says: 
After spending 24 years with [my former employer] I decided on a career change. When the 
opportunity to work overseas based in UAE arrived after discussions with the family, the 
decision was made for a three year commitment. My wife and children to remain at home to 
finish their education. We had two children in university and one studying for GCSEs. Never 
was I going to retire in UAE. I was Non-Dom, my wife was not, we knew I would return to UK 
following our short term plan.
As the three years neared completion an opportunity to work in Oman on a short term 
assignment to change the HSE construction performance of a company was presented to 
me and I decided to undertake the role, and give me time to get a suitable UK position which 
I subsequently secured a [senior position in the UK].
I had a clear career and family plan. I am now nearer 56 years old and continue to work my 
career plan to get breadth of experience and interesting assignments. As yet I have not 
executed my 25% pension draw down and do not intend to for the foreseeable.
Mr A couldve only benefitted from the tax arrangements in Dubai for his pension funds had 
he remained in the UAE continuously for five years. He never met the criteria for the tax 
advantages IFS4Y identifies. Further, he wouldve had to remain there until hed reached 55. 
He returned to the UK when he was 51.
If the undoubted tax advantages offered by residence in Dubai been uppermost in Mr As 
pension planning considerations, Id have expected much more by way of financial analysis 
and commentary in both PWS financial report and the pension transfer advice provided by 
IFS4Y about this. Rather I think it was a possibility in the future, depending on the 
circumstances.
Mr A didnt need to take a decision about transferring his DB pension benefits in 2016 to 
take advantage of a potential tax benefit in the possible scenario where hed still been 
resident in Dubai in 2021. It wouldve been prudent to wait until much nearer that time to make such a significant decision. We know from what actually happened to him meant that 
hed never have qualified for such advantages.
Turning to the financial case for this transaction  related to Mr As other main priority, the 
level of his income in retirement. The critical yield is the level of return Mr As new SIPP 
would need to have achieved in order for the transfer to match his OPS pension benefits at 
retirement (aged 65). The pension transfer report indicated that an annual return of not less 
than 5.5% would be required.
IFS4Ys advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr As case.
The critical yield required to match Mr As OPS benefits was 5.5%. When the advice was 
given, the relevant discount rate was 4.6% per year for 15 years to retirement. So achieving 
the critical yield looked unlikely, especially given this excluded the effect of charges on his 
investments.
The comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable that if Mr A had a high ATR, the investment 
portfolio selected in that case mightve had a chance of big returns. But his appetite was 
assessed as moderate and defined in the following terms:
I am a medium risk investor, I am prepared to accept a reasonable degree of stock market 
type exposure in the hope of longer term gains but require this to be in conjunction with a 
level of lower risk investment. I appreciate that in very unfavourable markets there is the 
possibility of significant erosion of my pension fund.
IFS4Y highlights Mr As substantial pension, investment and property assets. It says his 
suggestion of being nave in financial matters was a mis-statement. Unfortunately for it, the 
fact-find it has shared with this Service was 1 page in length and didnt have any information 
about his financial circumstances in 2016. There was a similar lack of detail in its suitability 
report. Under the section headed Your Circumstances it recorded:
You are 50, married and living in Dubai. Your wifewho is 49, lives in the UK. You have no 
financial dependents.
I wouldve expected to have seen some evidence in the advice process that IFS4Y had 
access to a detailed breakdown of his household financial circumstances. And similarly, that 
thered been a discussion of his knowledge and experience, but the information on file is 
very limited.
Theres no evidence Mr A was experienced in investment and pension matters. Having 
significant assets doesnt mean he was knowledgeable about these things. And while he 
held senior roles in large companies (outside the financial services sector), it doesnt follow 
that he shouldve been. Hes told this Service his wife dealt with financial matters for their 
household. And Im mindful he sought financial advice in relation to his retirement plans. This 
is important context when I consider what happened to him. 
I also have some concerns about how his ATR was assessed. I cant see that a full 
assessment was conducted, all Ive seen is a form where he was asked to select one of the 
five risk categories (low to high) on IFS4Ys form. It says the FCA conducted a review of its 
risk assessment process and that it hadnt raised any issues on the matter. Id simply 
observe that the role of the FCA is to consider systemic matters. The role of this Service is to consider individual complaints in the context of the specific circumstances and evidence of 
each case.
Id expect to see a detailed questionnaire teasing out different aspects of Mr As ATR 
outlook. This would then be used by the adviser to test and challenge his real appetite for 
risk. Theres no indication that IFS4Y had evidence of any such exercise being conducted, 
nor what the outcome was. It says the lack of such documentation is irrelevant, the 
assessment happened. I dont think asserting such carries much weight in the circumstances 
of this case.
I also cant see that a proper assessment was conducted into Mr As capacity for loss. 
Interestingly, an application he completed for an offshore bond in September 2016 indicates 
he had a low ability to bear investment losses. This is an important aspect of any risk 
appetite assessment.
More generally, Im not satisfied that Mr A was properly informed that by moving away from 
his OPS scheme and using the funds to invest, he was moving from a situation where his 
former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of his retirement income to 
one where he was taking on that risk.
Ive various other concerns about IFS4Ys advice. For example, it needed to consider the 
investments Mr As funds would be placed in, not provide generic comparators. It needed to 
be transparent about the effect of fees and charges. And so on.
IFS4Y didnt provide Mr A with enough information to be able to make an informed decision. 
It failed to give him a copy of the comparison between his existing scheme benefits and his 
proposed new arrangement, drawing his attention to the factors that did and didnt support 
its advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the key features document is 
provided.
As Ive already concluded, IFS4Y didnt take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr A 
understood its comparison and its advice.
IFS4Y seems to have been more concerned with fulfilling a contract with PWS for pension 
transfer expertise, within its carefully crafted terms and conditions, rather than providing 
effective advice about what was in Mr As best interests concerning his valuable OPS 
benefits. It hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the transaction was demonstrably in his 
best interest. Nor that it provided him with a clear recommendation of such.
I dont believe IFS4Ys letter of October 2013 provided sufficiently clear, detailed or insightful 
advice. Such that if Mr A and PWS had received it, it wouldve provided either of those 
parties with what they required to make properly informed decisions.
IFS4Y says that at no point in its advice letter of 13 October 2016 does it state that the 
transfer was in Mr As best interests. Or that he should transfer. This is true. But its letter 
was nuanced, non-committal and failed to provide a personal recommendation. Its advice to 
him concluded in the following terms:
Overall I believe that a transfer is moderately unlikely to result in increasing the value of 
your pension benefits in retirement. This is because any new pension scheme would need to 
be able to consistently guarantee a return above the critical yield (including initial set up 
charges and ongoing costs) in order to have absolute certainty that it would make you better 
off, subject again to the existing scheme maintaining full solvency throughout. Even the 
worst case scenario of [your main pension provider] falling into default, the protection offered 
by the PPF provides very reasonable surety.You may feel that when weighed against the terms of your old scheme and the transfer 
value currently being offered by them, that the flexible features, death benefits, tax 
efficiency, ability to influence the investment direction of your fund and other options of your 
new scheme are sufficient to justify the transfer and satisfy your needs.
I hope that the information and considerations I have provided will serve as good 
discussion points for you and your local adviser.
I think IFS4Y shouldve provided Mr A with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with 
the transfer of his DB scheme funds into a SIPP with Momentum. 
This in addition to a more insightful and reasoned report, which adhered to regulatory 
requirements, wouldve meant that even if PWS had tried to continue to persuade Mr A of 
the merits of moving ahead with this element of the transaction, armed with appropriate 
advice I dont think he wouldve. Its rare for a layperson to go against advice, which in this 
case wouldve been regulated and so even more compelling.
IFS4Y challenged my earlier conclusion that had Mr A not proceeded with his DB transfer 
then the switch of his DC funds also wouldnt have gone ahead. I reflected on this matter 
and arrived at a different conclusion.
Mr A brought his complaint to us with concerns about the transfer of his DB pension. IFS4Y 
was engaged to consider that element alone. While both funds were part of his OPS, I think 
the treatment and oversight of both from a regulatory and advisory perspective was very 
different.
In particular PWS wouldve remained in the driving seat for the DC element of his pension 
provision. And we know that his other personal pensions were switched under its guidance. 
Theres also an argument that such an approach wouldve delivered a more balanced overall 
exposure to risk for Mr A.
I think its more likely than not, Mr A wouldve switched his DC pension funds, irrespective of 
IFS4Ys advice about his DB scheme. I think its impact on decision making around the 
former was secondary because the explicit recommendation it shouldve delivered for him 
not to proceed was inextricably linked to the particular protections, guarantees and benefits 
of his final salary scheme.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr As DB OPS pension funds could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to him. IFS4Y failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing him 
with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against IFS4Y and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr As case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Independent Financial Services 4 You Ltd responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Independent Financial Services 4 You Ltd should 
pay Mr A the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Independent Financial Services 4 You Ltd pays Mr A the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Independent Financial 
Services 4 You Ltd doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr A can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
I consider Mr A wouldve remained in his DB pension, but for IFS4Ys unsuitable advice and 
arrangements. It should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension 
review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in i ts Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Mr A and/or his current financial adviser, as appropriate, will need to co-operate with IFS4Y 
in relation to the supply of any necessary information required to make these calculations. It 
wouldnt be reasonable for delays on his part to cause a financial penalty in interest for 
IFS4Y.
IFS4Y may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the DB scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'.
Provision for an award of interest
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date 
Independent Financial Services 4 You Ltd receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes IFS4Y to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, IFS4Y should pay Mr A £350 for its role in the transfer of his DB pension into a 
SIPP, which has caused him trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr As complaint. And I require 
Independent Financial Services 4 You Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman