DRN-3142247
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mistreated him when he went in branch to 
open a bank account for his son and failed to provide him with an appointment.
What happened
Mr M held a bank account with Lloyds. He complained because he had problems arranging 
an appointment to open a bank account for his son. Lloyds told him that they were not 
arranging face-to-face appointments, but Mr M explained that it was an important family 
tradition for him to open an account for his children via an appointment. He was eventually 
told that an appointment had been made, only to find out that it hadnt been booked when he 
arrived at the branch.
Mr M said he was also mistreated by the branch manager, who was racially abusive towards 
him, causing his son to become distressed. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Ms concerns and awarded him £75 compensation for their handling of 
his appointment booking. However, they did not find any evidence of their staff being rude or 
making racially abusive comments and said that it was Mr M who had displayed concerning 
and abusive behaviour towards their staff. There had also been reports of him displaying 
aggressive and intimidating behaviour over the phone when he spoke to Lloyds to get the 
matter resolved. As a result, Lloyds informed Mr M that they would be closing his account 
due to the way he had behaved towards their staff. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He does not think Lloyds have 
acted fairly by closing his account, and also does not think the compensation theyve offered 
is fair. Mr M also said that Lloyds didnt consider his needs and were unhelpful when 
discussing his complaint over the phone 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was enough evidence to 
support Mr Ms allegations of racial abuse. And although it was clear Lloyds could have 
handled things better with regards to the booking of his appointment, she thought the £75 
compensation offered was fair. With regards to the closure of Mr Ms account, the 
investigator didnt think this was unreasonable given the way Mr M had spoken to some of 
the staff at Lloyds over the phone. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me 
to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Discrimination
Mr M says he was subjected to racial discrimination and abuse when he visited his local 
branch. He says his four-year-old son also became very distressed, to which he was 
allegedly told not to be stupid by the manager. Having read the comments that Mr M says 
the branch manager directed at him, I understand that it would undoubtably be offensive and 
upsetting.
However, in order to consider awarding compensation for such a serious allegation, I would 
need to see enough persuasive evidence to conclude that its more likely than not that Mr M 
was spoken to by the branch manager in the way he has described. But Mr Ms version 
events has not been corroborated. 
Lloyds investigated the incident and obtained the testimony of the branch manager, as well 
as other members of staff who were in branch that day. And theyve given very different 
accounts to that of Mr M, where the branch manager said that it was Mr M who became 
aggressive, causing her to have to leave the room as she was in tears. 
So, there are two very different accounts of what happened in branch that day. And without 
any further contemporaneous evidence to demonstrate that the branch manager did racially 
abuse Mr M in the way he has described, I dont consider there is enough persuasive 
evidence to substantiate his version of events, or to say that Lloyds have discriminated 
against him. So I will not be asking Lloyds to take any further action.
Customer service
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated with the service he received from Lloyds. I can 
see, for example, that he had to spend time chasing the appointment up by phone, and that 
he also didnt receive a call back from Lloyds that he was promised. I also appreciate that it 
wouldve been disappointing to learn that his appointment had not in fact been booked, as 
he had placed a lot of importance on attending it with his son. 
Lloyds have offered £75 compensation, which I understand Mr M does not consider to be 
commensurate to the experience he has had. So I have considered whether, in the
circumstances, the £75 compensation offered is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to
award further compensation to Mr M, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions
of Lloyds have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im 
not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating. But I dont consider Lloyds service 
failings to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. So, I will not be making any 
further award in these circumstances.
Account closure
After looking into Mr Ms concerns, Lloyds took the decision to close Mr Ms account and end 
their banking relationship with him, as they considered his behaviour towards their staff to be 
unacceptable.
Id like to assure Mr M that I have listened to all the phone calls Lloyds has provided us. And 
while I understand he was upset with the situation and service he had received, I dont think 
Lloyds have unreasonably categorised his behaviour as being inappropriate. I can see that he did become aggressive at times and had to be warned about the way he was behaving, 
which has led to some of his phone calls being terminated. And I can see that there are 
previous notes made on Mr Ms contact history from 2018 that state he became aggressive 
with the agents he was speaking to at that time as well. I accept that there will have been 
many phone calls in the past where Mr M had not become aggressive with Lloyds. But taking 
everything into account, I do not consider Lloyds decision to end its banking relationship 
with Mr M to be unreasonable in these circumstances. They informed him of this in writing 
and gave him the required period of notice, as they were required to do.  
I appreciate that Mr M is upset with Lloyds decision. But it is ultimately up to the bank to 
decide who they want to do business with. Of course, the decision to end the relationship 
with one of its customers must still be made fairly and reasonably. But in these 
circumstances (and for the reasons Ive outlined previously), I dont consider that they have 
acted unreasonably by choosing to close Mr Ms account. 
 
Complaint handling
I understand that Mr M is also unhappy with the way Lloyds handled his complaint as it took 
quite a while for it to finally be registered, and he says they didnt take his needs into 
account. However, complaint handling is not an activity thats regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (this is to say, it is not a financial service, for example) and so it is 
therefore not something I can consider or comment on within this final decision.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But in the circumstances, I wont be 
asking Lloyds to take any further action as I consider their offer of £75 compensation to be 
fair.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC have made an offer to pay a total of £75.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Lloyds should pay Mr M (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr M should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr M and Lloyds as to whether the £75 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman