DRN-1818752
The complaint
Mr O complains N26 Bank GmbH unfairly debited funds from the account he held with them, 
and it hasnt explained why. He also says N26 had unfairly froze his account prior to its 
decision without again explaining why. He wants the funds removed from his account 
returned to him.
Background
Mr O held an account with N26. On 26 July 2019 he discovered his account had been 
blocked. He contacted N26 via webchat and was told his account was being reviewed, and 
while this was happening his access had been removed.
Mr O complained to N26. He says he needed the funds in the account to make important 
payments. N26 emailed him on the 29 July 2019. It had completed its review and gave him 
two months notice that his account would close. It also said it wouldnt be returning the 
funds that were in his account.
Unhappy with N26s response and actions, Mr O brought his complaint to us.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Os complaint and decided to uphold it in part. 
In summary, they found:
N26 has a variety of legal and regulations it must meet. These mean it may 
sometimes need to review an account and prevent access to funds when doing so. 
So, it hadnt done anything wrong when preventing Mr Os from accessing the 
account.
N26 were also able to close Mr Os account if it no longer wanted him as its 
customer. It had followed the notice period required under the terms of the account. 
So, it hadnt done anything wrong in closing the account.
N26 ought to have allowed Mr O access to the funds in his account barring £9.47. It 
hadnt provided enough information to demonstrate it was reasonable to remove 
those funds.
N26 should pay Mr O £235.79, and add 8% simple interest per annum on that 
amount from the point it completed its review to the point it makes payment to Mr O.
 
N26 disagreed with the findings of the investigator. It says it was meeting its legal and 
regulatory obligations in not returning the funds to Mr O. Specifically, it says the basis on 
which the investigator decided what sum should be returned to Mr O is inappropriate to use 
in the individual circumstances of the complaint.
As N26 did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Account block and subsequent closure
The investigator was right to point out that N26 has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
N26 may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If N26 didnt on 
occasion take action it could risk serious sanction.
Having considered N26s reasons for reviewing the account, Im satisfied its decision to 
restrict Mr Os access was reasonable. And, I also find it didnt cause any unnecessary 
delays when conducting its review. I agree not having access to the account caused Mr O 
some inconvenience, but for the reasons I've given, its not something Im going to direct 
N26 to compensate him.
Much like Mr O couldve decided he no longer wanted to have an account with N26, so to 
can N26 decide it no longer wanted him as a customer. Its commercial discretion on whom it 
wants as a customer is not something I would generally interfere with. But N26 should still 
ensure it closes an account in line with the correct account terms, and its decision 
shouldn't be based on improper reasons.
 Im satisfied N26 reasonably applied the correct account terms. It gave Mr O two months 
notice, which I consider adequate time for him to have found another account provider. And, 
I also find its decision was a legitimate exercise of its discretion.
The funds in Mr Os account
Mr O feels strongly that N26 were not entitled to remove funds from his account. Our 
investigator agreed with him. In summary, they thought N26 ought to have applied a 
common methodology relating to how funds in an account should be distributed. This 
methodology is known as Claytons Rule, but its also known as the first in first out method 
(FIFO) - meaning funds which are first paid into an account are deemed as the first spent 
when funds debit an account.
N26 disagree that the rule should apply in Mr Os situation. Its provided me with its reasons 
as to why, and Ive listened very carefully to what its said. I do agree that in certain 
circumstances the use of Claytons Rule to decide the distribution of funds may be 
inappropriate, especially if using the method would result in a plainly unjust outcome.
But after reviewing all the information I've available Im not satisfied N26 has presented 
sufficient evidence in the circumstances of this complaint, and specifically in relation to      Mr 
O, to persuade me that applying the rule would result in an evidently unjust outcome. So, in 
the absence of this, I find instead that N26 ought to still have applied the rule.
 
 
 
Putting things rightIn view of the above, I find that had N26 done what it should have, the balance on Mr Os 
account wouldve been £235.79. So N26 need to put things right by doing the following:
Refunding Mr O £235.79
Adding 8% interest per annum to that amount from the time its review finished to the 
time payment is made to Mr O.
 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint. I direct N26 Bank GmbH to put things right in the 
manner Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman