DRN-3959601
The complaint
Mr C complains Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform (Gracombex) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it approved him for loans. Had it done so it wouldve 
realised he wasnt working at the time and had no income. 
 
What happened
Mr C was advanced four loans between March 2021 and July 2021. Ive included some of 
the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £500.00 08/03/2021 16/03/2021 3 £278.67
2 £500.00 24/03/2021 19/05/2021 1 £647.00
3 £500.00 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 2 £362.00
4 £1,000.00 29/07/2021 15/02/2022 1 £1,196.00
Mr C had some problems repaying his final loan but was able to fully repay it following a 
payment plan being agreed between himself and Gracombex. 
Following Mr Cs complaint, Gracombex wrote to Mr C to explain that it wasnt going to 
uphold the complaint because proportionate affordability checks were carried out which 
showed the loans to be affordable. However, as a gesture of goodwill Gracombex offered 
Mr C a payment of £50. Mr C didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Gracombex had made a reasonable 
decision to approve loans 1  3. However, she didnt think a fair lending decision was made 
at loan 4. 
She said, the repayment for this loan represented a significant portion of Mr Cs declared 
income of £1,800. In any event, the information gathered from Mr C showed that his monthly 
disposable income was less than the contractual loan repayment. 
Finally, the adjudicator also concluded that even if further checks wouldve been carried out, 
it wouldve realised that Mr C was in receipt of benefits and his monthly income was around 
£400. This led the adjudicator to conclude loan 4 ought to not have been granted to Mr C. 
Gracombex disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan 4. Ive 
summarised its comments below.
The loans were lent fairly and ..in line with all regulatory requirements. 
Gracombex explained it was able to offer an ex-gratia payment of £50.
By the time of loan 4, Mr Cs overall debt had dropped from £3,447 to £2,321 - which 
shows his finances were improving. 
The customers credit score improved from 254 to 277.
The gaps between the loans had increased, therefore showing no signs of 
dependency. 
While loan 4 was the largest loan, Gracombex only offered such a loan due to Mr Cs 
good repayment history. 
Mr Cs income was checked and verified for each loan. 
Mr C appears to have accepted the outcome reached by the adjudicator. He did have some 
comments about the total amount he repaid for loan 4 and when the loan was actually 
repaid. But the adjudicator answered Mr Cs questions. 
The offer of £50 was put to Mr C but he didnt accept it. As no agreement could be reached 
the case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Gracombex had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Gracombexs checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Gracombex should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. 
Gracombex was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Neither Gracombex nor Mr C appear to disagree with the outcome the adjudicator reached 
about loans 1 - 3. I therefore I no longer think these loans are in dispute and so I say no 
more about them. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Gracombex made a reasonable decision to 
provide loan 4. 
Loan 4 
This was Mr Cs largest capital loan, and he was due to make one repayment to Gracombex 
of nearly £1,200. Ive considered what Gracombex says that it only offered this loan because 
of what appeared to be an improving debt situation and hed repaid his other loans without 
any obvious difficulties. And while that may be the case, that doesnt remove Gracombexs 
obligation to carry out a proportionate affordability check. And that is what Ive thought about 
for this loan when deciding whether it did enough, considering what Mr C declared as well as 
Mr Cs previous dealings with Gracombex. 
Gracombex has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr C for details 
of his income. Mr Cs income has been recorded as being £1,800 per month  which is the 
same amount he had declared for his previous loans. Gracombex says this income was 
electronically verified. 
In terms of outgoings, Gracombex says;
Affordability - After taking into consideration all the customers debts including their 
rent and financial commitments alongside an estimate of non-discretionary income 
(as per ONS estimates) the customer had ample affordability 
The ONS refers to the Office of National Statistics. For this loan, Gracombex calculated a 
monthly disposable income of £1,051. Ill deal with this figure later. But what I will say, is that 
Gracombex needed to consider whether it knew enough about Mr Cs situation given on its 
own figures the loan was unaffordable as the loan required a single repayment of £1,196 to 
settle it. 
Before this loan was approved Gracombex also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Gracombex carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its possible that the information Gracombex received may not entirely reflect the 
information Mr C may be able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Gracombex only asking for certain pieces of information. But what 
Gracombex couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.
Gracombex was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference 
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained within it 
that wouldve either prompted Gracombex to have carried out further checks or possibly 
have declined Mr Cs application.Before reviewing the results, I think there was already an indication that Mr C was 
overindebted, this is because Gracombex knew that he was already committed to spending 
£1,196 to settle this loan. On top of this Gracombex knew Mr C had around £2,321 of total 
outstanding debt that wouldve also needed servicing. Gracombex was therefore already on 
notice that Mr C was likely going to need to comment at a minimum  66% of his income to 
meet his credit commitments This is a not insignificant percentage. This is also in addition to 
my concerns about Mr Cs total disposable income which Ive mentioned above. 
However, looking more closely at the credit check results provided by Gracombex there 
arent any indicators that show that Mr C may have been in financial distress. For example, 
there doesnt appear to be any insolvency markers. Gracombexs checks also show there 
wasnt any history of Mr C having difficulties repaying previous credit.  
I am not able to explain why Mr Cs credit score appeared to be improving the longer he 
borrowed money. But I dont think I need to explain this in order to come to a fair outcome. 
This is because, both Gracombexs own checks as well as the information it likely wouldve 
discovered by carrying out a proportionate check wouldve shown it the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr C. 
Gracombex knew, from its own checks that Mr C only had £1,051 per month of disposable 
income and yet the repayment he needed to make was more than that. This would indicate 
that this loan was unaffordable, because based on the information it had, Mr C didnt have 
sufficient income to be able to afford the repayment. 
This is more than enough in my view to say the complaint ought to be upheld, especially, 
when thinking about the fact that Gracombex expected Mr C to pay around 66% of income 
towards just one credit commitment, and it knew that at the time Mr C had other credit that 
also needed repaying. 
So, Im going to conclude the reasons above are sufficient to uphold the complaint even 
though Gracombex may have felt  although its not clear why - the loan looked affordable 
on a pounds and pence basis. 
But as I explained above that is not the only part of the consideration. Given that in my view 
Mr C was already committed to spending a significant portion of his income solely serving 
this loan I think Gracombexs checks needed to go further. This was to ensure that Mr C 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
One-way Gracombex couldve done this was to review Mr Cs bank statement. I accept that 
that this wasnt the only documentation Gracombex may have asked to see. But as I think it 
needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Cs financial position the bank statements are the 
easiest way of doing this.
Mr C has provided copy bank statements for the months leading up to this loan being 
approved, so Ive reviewed the statements to see what they show. I can see, like the 
adjudicator that Mr C was on benefits at the time and wasnt receiving a salary  this meant 
his income was around £400 per month. This income is obviously far too low to support a 
loan repayment of £1,200 and knowing this the loan ought to not have been granted. 
I appreciate Gracombexs credit checks appear to support the fact he was working, but the 
evidence Ive been provided is quite clear in showing Mr C was receiving benefits at the 
time.
So, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loan 4. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Gracombex should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had if it hadnt lent loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Gracombex liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Gracombex shouldnt have provided Mr C with loan 4. 
A. Gracombex should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable.
B. Gracombex should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Gracombex should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D. Gracombex should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gracombex to deduct tax from this interest. Gracombex 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. 
Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform should put things right for Mr C as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman