DRN-4050350
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Irwell Insurance Company Limited has unfairly settled a 
claim under its commercial legal expenses (LEI) insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
M has a commercial LEI policy which is underwritten by Irwell. The policy provides 
cover for legal costs and expenses incurred in disputes with employees. 
A former employee of M brought a legal claim against M for unfair dismissal. Irwell 
accepted the claim and appointed a legal advisor  who Ill refer to as C. 
The legal dispute was heard by an Employment Tribunal which found that whilst the 
employees dismissal was justified, M hadnt followed procedural guidelines as it 
hadnt carried out a reasonable investigation prior to the disciplinary hearing, and it 
hadnt held an independent appeal hearing. So, the Judge directed M to pay an 
award to its former employee.
Irwell agreed to cover Ms legal costs for defending the case. And said because C 
hadnt provided clear advice to M in respect of the disciplinary investigation, it would 
cover part of the award. But it wouldnt cover the remainder as M hadnt followed Cs 
advice about having an independent person hear the employees appeal. It said M, 
therefore, hadnt complied with the terms of the policy.
M complained to Irwell about its decision to reduce the amount it was willing to pay. 
M also raised concerns about the adequacy of Cs legal representation.
In its final response, Irwell said it was satisfied its decision was fair and it advised M 
to contact C directly if it had concerns about the service C had provided. 
Unhappy, M brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. 
M disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Before I explain why, its important to 
clarify Im only considering Irwells handling of the claim. Any concerns M has about Cs 
competency as its legal representative and how it litigated on its behalf during the Tribunal 
do not fall within this Services jurisdiction, and so I wont be commenting on this.     
Irwells 50% contribution to the total award
The crux of Ms complaint is that it believes Irwell should cover the full award it has been 
directed to make  by the Tribunal - to its former employee. M says it sought advice from C 
and Irwell on the matter as to who should hear the disciplinary appeal hearing but was 
unable to obtain clear advice. It says telephone calls it had with C will demonstrate this. It 
adds that Irwell confirmed cover was in place prior to the Tribunal and so, it considers its 
decision to reduce the amount it would pay towards the employees award  after the event - 
to be unfair.  
Im mindful that Im making a decision without M having had access to the telephone calls it 
believes are fundamental to the complaint. This Service has attempted to obtain these calls 
from C on numerous occasions, but they havent been provided. The calls were also sent 
directly to M, but it had issues listening to them  and I understand M now intends on 
submitting a subject access request to obtain these. However, our role is to resolve matters 
quickly and with minimal formality, and having considered things, Im satisfied I can reach a 
decision on the information available. In the event M retrieves the calls and these 
unequivocally support its position, it may be able to ask this Service to consider this aspect 
of the complaint. 
The exclusion Irwell seeks to rely on says it shall not be liable for any claim for indemnity in 
respect of, or arising from, or relating to: 
Any dispute, unless The Policyholder has notified and sought advice promptly from C 
as soon as The Insured Event becomes known and before any action is taken and 
The Policyholder has followed the advice given, and also unless The Policyholder 
has continued to seek advice from C in respect of any developments relating to The 
Insured Event and has followed the advice given. This is a continuing obligation for 
each dispute requiring The Policyholder to take and follow advice at each stage until 
the conclusion of each dispute. 
In other words, M had to seek advice from C and follow it for Irwell to be satisfied M had 
complied with the policy terms. M hasnt disputed it was required to do so, but argues it was 
given unclear advice from C which led to it taking a course of action which was later deemed 
unsuitable by the Tribunal. 
From the information presented, Im more persuaded advice was given to M to take certain 
steps in respect of the appeal hearing  namely, that it should be conducted by an 
independent person - but that M chose to not follow this advice. I say this because Irwell has 
presented information which says M was advised the employee could claim the appeal 
process wasnt unbiased if M conducted it, and that best practice would be for a third party to 
hear it. Irwell said information was also shared with M which related to the appeal being 
heard by an impartial person who would have no prior involvement with the case. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied M was aware of the requirement of holding an independent 
appeal hearing, and that as it had conducted the initial hearing it wouldnt be acting 
independently if it heard the appeal. 
From what Ive seen, Ms decision to hear the appeal itself was largely based on the financial 
costs involved in appointing someone independent  which it said it couldnt afford. With that 
in mind, Im not persuaded M would have acted differently even if it didnt consider Cs 
advice to be unclear.   I understand M has complained that Irwell didnt give clear advice as to who should hear the 
appeal hearing, but Irwell as the insurer isnt a legal expert, and so, its reasonable that it 
would refer M to C  who is a legal expert  to advise on this point. So, I dont consider Irwell 
to have treated M unfairly in doing so.  
Having considered the above, I dont consider it unreasonable for Irwell to have relied on the 
exclusion - that M hadnt followed Cs advice - to limit the amount it has paid under the claim. 
Legal representation 
The policy sates If you need to make a claim you must notify C as soon as possible. Under 
no circumstances should you instruct your own solicitor, accountant or representative as the 
insurer will not pay any costs incurred without their prior agreement. So, Im satisfied the 
policy makes it clear that prior to Irwells acceptance of the claim, Irwell wouldnt cover costs 
M may incur if it appointed its own legal representative at that stage. 
M has complained it had no choice but to use C as its legal representative during the 
Tribunal. Irwell has explained that M was only required to take and follow Cs advice prior to 
the legal claim having been brought by the employee, and that had M asked to use a 
different legal representative after this time, it would have worked with M to agree the terms. 
This is in line with this Services approach which is that a policy holder has the freedom to 
choose legal representation when legal proceedings need to commence.
But, in any event, whilst M might have considered it had no choice but to use C, I havent 
seen anything which shows it asked Irwell if it could change its legal representative, and so, 
Im not persuaded Irwell has treated M unfairly in respect of this. 
Compensation
M has said its experienced stress because of Irwells handling of the claim, but as its a 
limited company, it cant experience distress and so, this Service cant award 
compensation to M for this. 
Whilst I understand the employee dispute and legal action has been a difficult event for M, I 
havent seen anything which persuades me Irwells handling of the claim warrants it to pay 
compensation to M.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman