The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Lloyds Bank Plc handled a money transfer request to 
their joint account. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M attended his branch with a hand written letter, which was signed by Mrs 
M. The letter was countersigned by Mr M. And it asked Lloyds to transfer £25000 from Mrs
Ms account to Mr and Mrs Ms joint account as the funds were needed for a house
purchase. Mrs M wasnt able to attend the branch to request the transfer herself due to
mobility problems caused by recent surgery. But Mr M held a third party mandate on her
account.
Mr M said Lloyds asked him to provide ID so it could undertake identification checks. And, 
when he wasnt able to, it declined to transfer the funds requested. Mr M felt this was unfair 
and incorrect because he had a long term relationship with Lloyds and knew members of 
staff within the branch. And  he also he had authority, as a third party mandate holder, to act 
on Mrs Ms behalf. 
Days later, Mr M attended the branch again. This time he was able to undertake transactions 
on Mrs Ms account without any identification requirements. So he complained to Lloyds 
about what had happened during his previous visit.
After Lloyds investigated, it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It accepted Mr M was 
authorised to transact on Mrs Ms account on her behalf. But it said its policy here is to ask 
customers to provide identification  particularly where transfers of large sums of money are 
involved. Lloyds said, as it couldnt complete its identification procedure with Mr M, it wasnt 
able to transfer the funds requested. So it didnt think it had made in error in how it had dealt 
with Mr and Mrs Ms transfer request.
While Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the funds transfer it recognised 
theyd experienced poor service. So, it credited their account with £100 to compensate them 
for that.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds had responded to their complaint Mr and Mrs M referred it 
to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence they and Lloyds provided but didnt 
uphold this complaint. They didnt think Lloyds had made an error in how it had dealt with Mr 
and Mrs Ms transfer request. And they thought it had dealt with their complaint fairly. So, 
they didnt think it needed to do anything more here. But Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked 
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1625125reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs M experienced here and I can see how 
strongly they feel about their complaint. 
Based on the information Ive seen its not in dispute that, since 2013, Mr M has had 
authority to act on Mrs Ms behalf and withdraw cash from accounts in her name. And I 
understand that since that time Mr M has regularly transacted on Mrs Ms account without 
being asked to provide identification. 
Lloyds has shown our service what transactions a third party is permitted to undertake under 
the authority of a mandate. Im satisfied that transferring money between accounts is 
something that Mr M would have been authorised to do on Mrs Ms behalf. 
On the occasion in March that is the subject of this complaint, however, Mr M wasnt able to 
transfer funds from Mrs Ms account to their joint account. Lloyds asked him to provide ID in 
order to make the transfer. And when he wasnt able to do that it declined to make the 
transfer.
I can appreciate why asking Mr M to provide identification his may have upset him. Hed 
been able to previously transact on Mrs Ms account without it. And he also has a long term 
relationship with his branch and is a regular customer. So staff at his branch know him. I can 
therefore understand why he would think that ID wouldnt be needed.
Because Mr M wasnt able to provide proof of identification Lloyds declined to make the 
money transfer. Its clear this caused distress and inconvenience to both Mr and Mrs M. And 
I understand that the transfer in question was particularly important and time sensitive as the 
funds were required for a house purchase. 
Ive thought about whether Lloyds made a mistake or treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly here, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, in determining whether Lloyds acted fairly 
here, Ive carefully considered the evidence it provided our service and Ive also taken into 
account what Mrs and Mr M have said about this complaint.
Mr M said he attended his branch with a signed letter from Mrs M which made clear she 
wanted to transfer £25000 from her account to the joint account he held with Mr M. I dont 
doubt her instructions were genuine here. Im satisfied she gave her authority for the transfer 
to take place. And Im also persuaded that, in holding a third party mandate, Mr M was 
authorised to transact on Mrs Ms account on her behalf.
Mr M said Lloyds could have verified Mrs Ms written transfer instructions with her but failed 
to do so. However, she wasnt present in branch and therefore the only way it could have 
done so was over the telephone. But, even if it had been able to contact Mrs M to confirm 
with her that her instructions were genuine, Im not persuaded this would have enabled 
Lloyds to make this transfer. Ill explain why.Lloyds has provided our service with its identification procedure that cashiers are required to 
adhere to when transferring funds on behalf of its customers. This shows that cashiers can 
get prompted for additional ID when processing certain transactions.
As our investigator explained  its clear from Lloyds procedure that, if a customer is unable 
to confirm their identity using Chip and PIN, photographic ID in the form of a passport or 
driving licence must be shown. 
I understand that in this case Mr M didnt have a card for Mrs Ms account. He therefore 
wasnt able to verify his identity using Chip and PIN. And he didnt have his passport or 
driving licence with him either. He also couldnt provide the identification documents Lloyds 
required in line with its procedure. So, he couldnt satisfy Lloyds requirements  and this 
explains why it wasnt able to complete Mr and Mrs Ms request here.
I know Mr M feels its unfair that he was asked to prove his ID based on his pre-existing 
relationship with Lloyds. However, the sum that was being transferred was large. And, while 
he had authority to transact on Mrs Ms account, I cant fairly find that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in asking him to comply with its identification procedure in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has shown our service evidence that if a customer cant be identified it isnt permitted 
to complete an internal transfer of funds. And I cant fairly criticise Lloyds for following its 
internal transfer of funds process. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line 
with the procedures it has in place.
I appreciate Mr M may want our service to tell Lloyds to change its identification procedure. 
However, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. We provide informal dispute 
resolution. So, I dont have the power to tell Lloyds to change its policies. Its entitled to 
exercise its own commercial judgment about that. And this means I cant require it to change 
the way in which deals with money transfers.
I also dont think it would be a fair expectation to expect Lloyds to be able to override its 
identification procedure simply because he was known to branch staff. Im not persuaded 
thats something Lloyds could do  even if it had wanted. It follows that I cant fairly conclude 
that it acted unreasonably in how it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms transfer request.
Mr M has raised queries as to why identification was required for the money transfer in 
March 2019 yet he was able to transact on Mrs Ms account in later visits without having to 
providing identification documents. Its clear he feels Lloyds could have undertaken the 
money transfer without needing ID based on later transactions. 
I understand the point Mr M is making here. But Lloyds has shown our service that it has 
different procedures and ID requirements that are dependent on the service a customer 
requires. So, this explains why transactions Mr M made on Mrs Ms behalf have been dealt 
with differently.
I can see Mr M said the funds would have been transferred if theyd sent Mrs Ms written 
request to Lloyds by post. But that didnt happen here. And when our service considers 
complaints we look at what actually happened  not hypothetical and speculative situations. 
So, Im not going to comment on this issue.
While Mr and Mrs M may disagree with me, Im satisfied that Lloyds dealt with their transfer 
request in line with its policies. And Im not persuaded it made an error or treated them 
unfairly.I can see that Lloyds acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M experienced poor service and it paid 
them £100 on 30 December 2019. This is referred to in Lloyds final response to their 
complaint. Mr and Mrs M have told our service that the £100 hasnt been paid. But this is 
something they should take up directly with Lloyds as Im persuaded, based on what Ive 
seen, that this has been paid to Mr and Mrs M.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of 
compensation for Lloyds to pay for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M would 
have suffered here. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to increase their award. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and 
that theyll be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve their dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and 
Mrs M any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman