DRN-1407041
The complaint
Mr B complains about the information he received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) about his overdraft.
What happened
Mr B had an overdraft facility with Halifax and says he was previously told it would be 
cheaper to borrow using this facility than to use his credit card. Mr B contacted Halifax at the 
end of 2018 to ask for the equivalent APR so he could compare the two facilities. 
Halifax told Mr B that it didn't charge interest on the overdraft facility, instead it had a daily 
charge. He wasn't satisfied with that response, so he raised a complaint with Halifax in early 
2019. Halifax responded in April 2019 reiterating the same information and it also provided 
some information on how that daily charge was calculated. It seems that Mr B didn't receive 
that letter.
Mr B sent further letters chasing a response. Halifax didnt reply to each of these letters and 
when it did send a reply in June 2019, some of Mr B's address was typed incorrectly. Mr B is 
unhappy that Halifax didnt respond to his complaints. He also complains that Halifax 
attempted to contact him by telephone, despite his contact preference being by post  which 
was made clear in his correspondence.
Halifax reviewed Mr Bs complaint when it was referred to us and has now acknowledged 
that the service it provided wasn't as good as it should've been. It noted that there had been 
delays in responding to Mr B and that that one letter it sent was sent to an incorrect address. 
It offered Mr B £75 compensation for the poor customer service.
Our investigator thought that the £75 compensation offered by Halifax was fair and 
reasonable. He said the information Halifax had given Mr B about the daily charges on the 
overdraft facility were clear and didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further to resolve 
the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Mr B asked Halifax for the APR on his account. Regardless of the wording he used, I think 
the question he was asking Halifax was clear, and he was simply trying to compare the most 
cost-effective method of borrowing between his credit card and overdraft. So I can 
understand why Mr B is frustrated at not being able to get the answer to his question.
But I do also have to consider what information Halifax was required to provide. Halifax has 
chosen to charge a daily fee on its overdraft facility, rather than an interest rate  and thats 
something its currently entitled to do. So while I understand why Mr B would prefer to have 
this daily fee converted to an equivalent interest rate, Halifax werent required to provide that 
information to him. So I cant say its done anything wrong.Halifax has acknowledged that it hasnt provided a good level of customer service  it hasnt 
responded to Mr Bs correspondence as quickly as it should have and sent a letter to the 
wrong address. It seems Mr B didn't receive Halifax's reply addressing his concerns, so I can 
understand why Mr B would be frustrated at the lack of response. But from the information I 
have, I think it's likely Halifax sent it and tried to make Mr B aware of its position on the 
matter - and in this instance I don't think it would be fair to hold Halifax responsible for a 
letter that appears to have got lost in the post. So overall, I'm satisfied that the £75 
compensation Halifax has offered Mr B for any trouble and upset it caused is fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr B says he prefers to be contacted by post. He says Halifax is aware of this but still tried to 
contact him by telephone after he had raised a complaint. Halifax has explained that it would 
only have tried to call Mr B a couple of times - and it would've been to discuss his concerns. 
But regardless of that, Mr B doesn't appear to have answered the telephone, so I don't think 
he's been caused any inconvenience by Halifax trying to call him. Mr B would also like us to 
ensure that he is contacted by letter going forward. But as our investigator has said, we cant 
guarantee that an issue wont happen in future  we can only comment on what has 
happened in the case were looking at. If Mr B remains concerned about this then I'd suggest 
he speaks to Halifax directly to ensure it holds the correct information.
My final decision
My final decision that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
should pay Mr B £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman