DRN-4157742
The complaint
Mrs S complains Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has not dealt fairly with 
a claim she brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to 
home improvement works.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ss case on 12 April 2023. I outlined the background 
to the complaint in this as follows:
Mrs Ss home is a rural property at which she was carrying out building works in 2019. Late 
in the year, an agreement was made with a company (E) to supply and install glazing 
including doors, windows and rooflights. Mrs S has referred to E having a separate contract 
of either £6,000 or £8,000 for other building works, but these are not the subject of this 
complaint.
A payment was made to E using Mrs Ss M&S credit card. Other payments were made to E 
via other means including a different credit card in the name of someone Ill call HS, and 
Mrs S says cash was paid as well. The total amount payable for the works is unclear due to 
the nature of the paperwork, and is disputed. Mrs S says the original quote was £30,000 but 
she secured a £1,000 discount making the total price £29,000.
Mrs S was very dissatisfied with Es work, which began in November 2019 and continued 
until February 2020. She had a long list of complaints relating to their workmanship and the 
quality of the products installed. Fundamentally, Mrs S also considered what E had supplied 
and fitted looked nothing like what she had expected having visited their showroom before 
purchasing.
Unable to obtain redress from E, Mrs S approached M&S, which considered whether it might 
be liable to her under section 75 of the CCA. M&S wanted to get Es comments so they 
approached the company with details of the complaint, which E refuted. Mrs S says shortly 
after this, her cars and home were vandalised by unknown individuals she suspects were 
linked to E.
M&S asked Mrs S to obtain an independent report into the problems with Es work. She 
arranged for someone Ill call DW to carry out an inspection. DW spoke to M&S while he 
was at Mrs Ss house, and later produced a written report.
At some point during the process, M&S decided to pass the matter to their solicitors. It 
appears the solicitors pointed out to the bank that the fact Mrs Ss name didnt appear on 
any of the paperwork was a problem for her claim. The name appearing on the paperwork 
was that of HS (or, occasionally, just a second name, which Mrs S shares with HS). In any 
event, M&S came to the conclusion that the fact the paperwork with E was in HSs name, 
meant Mrs S couldnt make a claim under section 75 of the CCA. 
Mrs S complained but the bank would not change its position, so she referred the matter to 
this service for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the case. 
She ultimately reached the same conclusions as M&S. Mrs S appealed our investigators 
assessment so the case has been passed to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I explained the potential basis for M&S to be liable to Mrs S for 
what had happened as follows:
a credit card provider may need to consider honouring a claim brought under section 75 
of the CCA.
Section 75 of the CCA allows a consumer who has purchased goods or services using a 
credit card to claim against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services, so long as certain conditions 
have been met.
I went on to identify that one of the key conditions was that there needed to be a debtor-
creditor-supplier or DCS agreement in place. I said:
What this means is that the person who owns the credit card account needs to have used 
the credit card to pay a supplier they have a claim against for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. This has been a key point of contention in Mrs Ss case, as M&S argues 
that she has no contract with E in respect of which she could make such a claim, and 
therefore there is no DCS agreement and no claim to be made against the bank.
I looked into this issue and noted that I had some concerns about the consistency of Mrs Ss 
evidence around it. Mrs S had been asked why instead of her name appearing on the 
contract with E, the name of HS appeared instead. She had said when first asked by the 
bank that HS was her husband or ex-husband. Later on she had described HS as her son, a 
friend or a fictitious person.
In the end I thought it most likely that HS was Mrs Ss ex-husband as this was the first 
explanation she had given, but I considered it didnt really matter who HS was, because I 
thought it likely that Mrs S was a party to the contract even though her name did not appear 
on it. I said this for the following reasons:
This was a contract for building work to be completed on Mrs Ss home. It would be 
unusual for her not to be involved in the agreement.
Land Registry records confirmed the property was held in Mrs Ss sole name.
E clearly considered Mrs S to be their customer, and she considered herself to be 
theirs, based on the correspondence between them, and between M&S and E.
This all meant that, if E had breached this contract with Mrs S, or misrepresented something 
to her, she could claim against M&S under section 75 of the CCA.
Before continuing with my provisional decision I noted that there were some problems with 
the evidence. This included what I considered to have been the inconsistencies in what 
Mrs S had said about who HS was. I said I had needed to treat her evidence with some 
caution as a result.
I also noted that the documentary evidence of the works which were meant to have been 
completed by E was quite rudimentary. DW had compared the agreement as being like one 
which had been drawn on the back of a fag packet and that it was so vague E had been 
asking for trouble. In other words, where there wasnt a clear and precise contract between 
Mrs S and E, disputes were inevitable. I said that the vagueness of the agreement meant that were it was alleged that E had deviated from it, it was difficult for me to say this was a 
breach of contract without paperwork to show how the work was meant to have been done.
Additionally, I observed there was very little independent commentary on the works carried 
out by E. The Financial Ombudsman Service was not an expert in glazing or construction, 
meaning it was reliant on independent evidence for assistance in cases like Mrs Ss where 
allegations had been made that works hadnt been carried out with the level of skill and care 
expected in the industry. There was the DW report, but this had some limitations which I 
would get on to later in the decision.
Finally, I noted that I had concerns over the evidence about the price which Mrs S had paid 
for Es works. Cross referencing Es official invoices for the job with credit card receipts and 
bank statements appeared to show that £16,511 had been paid to E. This was also the total 
of Es invoices. However, Mrs S said she had also handed Es managing director £12,500 in 
cash. The evidence Mrs S produced to support this was a piece of graph paper with Es 
header on it. There were amounts handwritten on this, including a reference to £12,500 
cash, but I didnt think this was good enough to show that Mrs S had paid £12,500 cash to E 
in respect of the contract for the doors, windows and rooflights. The amount did not appear 
on any official invoices, and Mrs S had told us previously that she had a separate contract 
with E for other works, which other payments could have related to. In the end, I didnt think I 
could say that Mrs S (and HS) had paid any more than £16,511 to E for the doors, windows 
and rooflights.
I then went on to outline Mrs Ss rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). I said 
the following:
The contract between Mrs S and E was a contract for the supply and installation of doors, 
windows and rooflights at her home. This means it was a contract for the sale of goods and 
supply of services, both of which are covered by the CRA.
One of the effects of the CRA is to cause contracts of this type to be treated as including 
certain terms. These include that goods will be as described and of satisfactory quality, and 
services will be carried out with reasonable care and skill. What constitutes reasonable care 
and skill is not defined in the CRA but has generally been held to mean the level of care and 
skill to be expected of a competent practitioner of the service in question.
If goods are not as described or of satisfactory quality, or services havent been carried out 
with reasonable care and skill, then a breach of contract will have occurred, for which the 
CRA sets out remedies which are not exhaustive. Ordinarily, consumers have the right under 
the CRA for goods to be repaired or replaced, or to a price reduction (or rejection of the 
goods) where this isnt possible or practical. Consumers also have the right to ask for 
services to be performed again, or a price reduction to reflect the defective performance.
I then went on to consider whether or not there had in fact been a breach of contract by E. I 
noted that the issues Mrs S had complained about could be summarised under the following 
general points:
The glazing units being poor quality, second hand, or not the models ordered and 
paid for (e.g. not the right size to fit the openings, or cheaper units than specified 
being supplied).
A generally poor aesthetic appearance of the works, not representative of what Mrs S 
had seen in Es showroom. This included poor fit and finish, a corner which was 
wider than anticipated, scratches, and trickle vents which Mrs S didnt think were 
meant to have been installed.Gaps which allowed rain to blow through.
E had responded to Mrs Ss complaint when it was put to them by M&S. It had essentially 
denied everything. It said that a lot of the issues Mrs S had mentioned related to works 
which had been carried out by other builders who had worked on Mrs Ss project. It also 
claimed that it had explained that it would be fitting trickle vents prior to supplying them, as 
well as telling Mrs S where they would be located.
I noted that the only evidence from a third party was the DW report. I had read the report and 
DWs follow up emails with M&S. Id also listened to a recording of a phone conversation 
hed had with M&S while he was at Mrs Ss house. I thought it was clear from these that 
there was a mismatch between what Mrs S had expected and what E had actually installed. 
DW was clearly surprised about how vague the paperwork had been and thought there were 
some issues which were essentially Mrs Ss word against Es. However, he did make the 
following comments or findings:
The trickle vents had not been fitted with reasonable care and skill. He referred to 
them having been cut by hand and fitted to an appalling standard. He provided a 
photo which appeared to show roughly-cut holes in the window frames.
The roof lights were not the ones which appeared on the contract.
The bedroom window (which Mrs S has now described as a curtain wall) was 
different to the drawings.
DW also referred to there being a poor finish in places, but didnt indicate what it might cost 
to fix the issues hed identified. He only suggested, after M&S pressed him for more 
information, that the windows be replaced or a refund provided.
I felt I had enough evidence to reach a set of conclusions. I thought it was likely E had not 
supplied the rooflights specified on the contract (they had provided cheaper ones), and the 
trickle vents hadnt been installed with reasonable care and skill. I didnt feel DW had gone 
into enough detail about the issues with the bedroom window for me to be convinced there 
had been a breach of contract in relation to that. However, I was willing to accept that the fit 
and finish of some aspects of the work was unsatisfactory and not what one would expect 
from a builder exercising reasonable care and skill.
I then turned to what I felt would be an appropriate remedy. I observed that no costings had 
been put forward for the work required to correct the issues, so it wouldnt be appropriate to 
ask M&S to cover the cost of remedial works. I also didnt think the issues were of such a 
magnitude that Mrs S could simply reject the goods. I thought that would be 
disproportionate. This left the possibility of a price reduction to reflect the difference in value 
between what Mrs S paid for and what she had received. I noted this would be a very 
approximate exercise due to the state of the evidence, and said that I thought a 15% price 
reduction, based on the price of £16,511, would be reasonable in light of the fact that the 
evidence of the problems was limited but they were clearly not trivial ones. 
I unfortunately then had to turn to another problem, which was that HS had also used a 
credit card to pay for part of the contract with E. This left the possibility open that he had 
made a chargeback or section 75 claim of his own, and therefore there was a risk of Mrs S 
and HS recovering the same losses twice. Mrs S had even referred to such a claim in 
correspondence with M&S. 
I therefore said that, as things stood, I couldnt conclude that M&S ought to have honoured 
Mrs Ss section 75 claim. However, if she could evidence that no claim had been brought against the other credit card issuer, then my decision would change and I would be minded 
to award the price reduction Id discussed earlier.
I asked both parties to the complaint to provide me with any further submissions they wanted 
me to consider. I specifically highlighted to M&S that it needed to consider and comment on 
my findings regarding the breach of contract and the redress I had indicated I was minded to 
award, as if Mrs S provided the evidence Id requested, I would likely be changing my 
decision.
M&S eventually got in touch to say that it had nothing further to add. More recently, after 
learning Mrs S had provided more evidence in relation to claims made elsewhere, M&S said 
it accepted my redress proposals. Mrs S provided a large amount of further submissions 
across about 25 emails, however I think I could summarise the relevant main points as 
follows:
There had been a failure by E to deliver what had been ordered, and its workmanship had 
been poor.
oBuilding Control (BC) had confirmed E should not have installed trickle vents 
as these were wrong for the type of door/window, or they couldnt be used in 
that kind of door or with modern thermal glass.
oThe windows and the curtain wall (the bedroom window) were not as per the 
agreed drawings or like in the showroom. The curtain walling was too small 
and the surrounding opening had needed to be filled in with stone at Mrs Ss 
cost. The windows/sliding doors in the extension were also too small, 
resulting in ugly packing strips and a corner column which was far too wide. 
The windows themselves had been second hand.
oThe curtain walling was not meant to have opening windows, but opening 
windows had been installed.
oDW hadnt explained her case well but M&S had chosen him as the expert.
oBC had refused to sign off Es works, and E wouldnt provide a CERTASS 
certification, just a useless in-house guarantee.
The cost of the contract, and the price paid, was £29,000.
oThe price had originally been £30,000 but HS had managed to get a £1,000 
discount by suggesting they put cash into the deal.
oE would never have agreed to do such extensive works for £16,511. It was an 
unrealistically low price so the real price must have been higher. E had never 
denied the price was £29,000 either.
oAs well as the handwritten receipt already provided, there was a set of 
drawings of all the windows which mentioned a price of £30,000. And on the 
back of another agreement with E were the words remaining monies are to 
be paid starting with the first 25% invoice to be issued at a later date. This 
suggested money had already been paid, which was the £12,500 cash.
oThe reason why there was such a delay between her withdrawing the cash 
and then paying E was because shed had issues with a previous builder she 
had sent too much money to by bank transfer. Shed withdrawn the money earlier to keep it safe.
HS was not who I had said he was in my provisional decision
oThe HS mentioned on the contract was in fact her brother in law (AS) who 
had been assisting with her dealings with E. He has a name which, when 
shortened, sounds like HSs name. So E must have got confused.
The case has now been returned to me to decide. 
Before writing this decision I asked that questions be put to E about the price of the contract 
with Mrs S. It told our investigator that £16,511.40 had been paid to it in respect of the 
contract and there were no cash payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mrs S has now been able to evidence that no claims have been made, my starting 
point, going into this final decision, is that M&S will need to provide a 15% refund of the 
£16,511 I believed Mrs S had paid.
Mrs S disagrees with my provisional decision and so Ive carefully considered the detailed 
points she made in her emailed responses. I will cover the main themes separately, starting 
with the question over the identity of the HS on the contract.
I appreciate that Mrs S has now given a different explanation of who the HS appearing on 
the contract with E was. She says he must be AS, her brother in law. Shes also provided 
information about naming conventions in different cultures and suggested this may have 
been the source of any confusion. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, HSs identity ended up not being important from 
the perspective of whether there was a valid DCS agreement which would allow Mrs S to 
make a section 75 claim against M&S in respect of the contract with E. This was because I 
considered Mrs S to be a party to the contract with E. Ultimately, who HS was didnt matter 
when answering that question.
However, I did find in my provisional decision that the fact that Mrs S had given very different 
explanations when asked about who HS was, was troubling and it led me to treat her 
evidence in general with caution. While I thank Mrs S for providing some further background, 
it hasnt changed my view on this. Mrs S stated on the phone to M&S, when asked about 
who the HS was who appeared on the contract, that he was her husband, then clarified that 
he was her ex-husband. This is different to the explanations she has given subsequently and 
is different to her position now, which is that HS was AS, a brother in law.
Turning to the question of the contract price, and what was paid to E for the works, I remain 
of the view that the amount paid for the works in question was £16,511 and I am unable to 
conclude that an additional £12,500 cash was paid over to E for them. I say this for the 
following reasons:
The official invoices only show a price of £16,511 being paid.The bank statements and credit card receipts match the official invoices.
The only mention of £12,500 cash is on the piece of graph paper referred to in my 
provisional decision, which also contains other figures and does not appear to me to 
be a receipt. Even if it was intended to be a receipt, it appears unofficial and unclear. 
E claims that it was not paid any cash in relation to the project.
Mrs S says £16,511 is an unrealistically low price but I do not know how much a project like 
this would have cost in 2019. A reputable trade website suggests that five aluminium bi-fold 
door panels could be supplied and installed for between £3,000 and £7,500 plus VAT in 
2023.1 The drawings Ive seen from E appear to show five bi-fold door panels, along with 
three small bathroom windows, the bedroom window (or curtain wall) and two rooflights. A 
cost of £16,511 doesnt appear unrealistically low to me, and Ive not been directed to any 
evidence (for example from an expert) to suggest otherwise.
The final set of issues relates to the problems with Es work. Ive read all of the documents 
Mrs S has sent but I dont think they support the conclusions shes reached about the 
project.
For example, Mrs S has referred to Building Control taking issue with Es work, and stating 
that trickle vents were not to be used with the type of glass or doors installed. Shes provided 
a chain of emails with the Building Control officer as evidence, but all the officer appears to 
say in these is that there are options other than trickle vents which could be used for 
ventilation. He doesnt say trickle vents shouldnt or cant be used. And a document the 
officer provided a link to  Approved Document F  also doesnt say trickle vents cant be 
used.
There are other reports and sets of comments from Building Control within the new evidence 
Mrs S has sent, and a recent email from the officer confirms he is unable to sign off on the 
overall building project because there were issues outstanding from a report of June 2020. 
Mrs S has not supplied a copy of this report, so I dont know what the outstanding issues are 
or whether they relate to something E has done or not done. Mrs S has however provided 
copies of reports from September and October 2019. These reports were critical of works 
carried out on the extension in general. The officer noted there were issues with ponding on 
the flat roof to the extension, wall insulation, movement in a parapet wall, an inadequate 
damp proof course, and steel beams which were not to the specification required by the 
structural engineer. 
It appears from the new evidence Mrs S has provided that there were problems with works 
carried out by other contractors who had worked on her project. E claimed, when M&S put 
Mrs Ss complaint to them, that theyd manufactured all of the products to the measurements 
requested, but ultimately had to work with the openings which had been made by Mrs Ss 
other builders. Unfortunately, I think the evidence Mrs S has provided in response to the 
provisional decision appears to support Es contention that it was not to blame for some of 
the issues Mrs S complained about.
Regarding the bedroom window/curtain wall, Ive seen various different drawings of this, with 
different measurements and comments, throughout our file on the case. Not all of these 
drawings are dated, so I dont know what the final design was meant to look like. Mrs S is 
clearly unhappy with the end result but there is simply too little information to be able to say 
that theres been a breach of contract by E in relation to this part of the works.
1 https://www.checkatrade.com/blog/cost-guides/cost-install-bifold-doors/ [accessed 9 June 2023]Regarding DW, Ive not seen any evidence that M&S appointed him. Having listened to the 
relevant phone calls, my view is Mrs S appointed DW and M&S accepted her choice of 
expert. I covered his expert report in my provisional decision and my views on it are 
unchanged. I remain of the view that the evidence available allows me to draw the following 
conclusions:
The wrong rooflights were fitted.
The trickle vents were not fitted with reasonable care and skill. 
Some aspects of the fit and finish of Es work was unsatisfactory, indicative of a lack 
of reasonable care and skill being taken.
No figures to indicate what it would cost to remedy these issues have been provided by 
either party, so I also remain of the view that a price reduction of 15% would have been the 
most appropriate way to honour Mrs Ss section 75 claim. In the absence of any compelling 
evidence or arguments that this percentage should be changed, I have decided to retain it in 
my final decision.
Overall conclusions
I thank Mrs S for her additional submissions following my provisional decision. In these she 
has evidenced that no other claims have been made with another card issuer in relation to 
the contract with E. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, this means I will be saying that M&S should have 
honoured her section 75 claim and will need to settle in line with the figures I outlined in my 
provisional decision, which for the reasons explained earlier, have not changed following Mrs 
Ss additional evidence. 
This means M&S will need to pay to Mrs S 15% of the amount of £16,511.402, along with 
compensatory interest calculated from when it should have honoured Mrs Ss claim. Its 
unclear if Mrs S paid anything for the DW report or, if she did, if M&S has already 
reimbursed her expenses. However, if she has paid DW and not been reimbursed, it would 
be fair and reasonable that M&S covers this cost also.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the extracts from, and summary of, my 
provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part and direct Marks and Spencer 
Financial Services Plc to take the following actions:
A) Pay to Mrs A £2,476.71, this representing a 15% price reduction of what she paid to 
E for the works in question.
B) To the amount in A), add 8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the date the 
bank first wrote to Mrs S declining her section 75 claim, to the date the amount in A) 
is paid to her.
C) Reimburse Mrs S the reasonable costs she incurred in commissioning the report 
from DW, to the extent that it has not already done so.
2 I have based this on the amount E claims to have received from Mrs S, which is a difference of 40p 
from my provisional decision.*If Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman