DRN-3109807
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K has complained that Aon UK Limited didnt do enough to let it
know its motor fleet insurance renewal was due.
Mr O, a director of K, has complained on Ks behalf.  
What happened
K held a motor fleet insurance policy which it had bought through Aon, its broker. The policy
was due for renewal on 1 March 2019. K called Aon in April 2019 after its director was
charged with driving without insurance. During this call, Aon said it had sent K a renewal
invitation on 31 January 2019 and while there was a letter on the system from 9 February
2019, it didnt look like this had been sent. K said it hadnt received either letter and noted
that post was sometimes put in its neighbours letter box incorrectly. K asked if Aon could set
up the policy immediately.
After speaking with the insurer, Aon set up the policy but said the insurer wouldnt backdate
cover to 1 March 2019 because a third-party had tried to make a claim against K. K said it 
didnt know the policy had lapsed and complained to Aon. K said Aons agent confirmed that 
they should have done more to make contact before the policy lapsed.
In their final response letter, Aon said they had tried to contact K on 18 December 2018 and
31 January 2019 about outstanding payments for the 2018 policy but hadnt been able to get
hold of Mr O. Aon said they had sent a renewal invitation by post on 31 January 2019 and
another letter by post on 9 February 2019 to say the policy had lapsed from the end of
February 2018 as no renewal instructions had been received and the required payment
hadnt been made for the 2018 policy.
K further complained to Aon because it said there had been delays in setting up the payment
for the 2019 policy and Aon hadnt actioned a subject access request.
Aon said it didnt need to provide a response to the subject access request because K was a
limited company and not a consumer. However, they accepted there had been some delays
in setting up the payment and providing the requested information and offered £350
compensation for any unnecessary inconvenience they had caused.
K remained unhappy with Aons response and brought its complaint to us. It explained that
its director had incurred a fine and points on his licence due to the policy not renewing. K
thought this was Aons fault and it thought they should have sent an email to remind K that
the policy would lapse. K also thought that, as its agent, Aon should have told it about the
third-party claim. Whilst not a complaint point, K also said that it had tried to set up payment
for a new policy taken out through Aon, but Aon wasnt responding to its request.
While we were looking into things Aon let us know that K hadnt paid for its policies for 2018,
2019 or 2020 due to issues with setting up the credit agreements.
Our investigator looked into Ks complaint but thought Aon had done enough when renewing
Ks policy. He found that Aon had sent K two letters notifying it that the renewal was due and
as K hadnt responded, Aon wasnt at fault for the policy lapsing.
K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
While I was looking into Ks complaint our investigator asked Aon for some further
information. Aon said that K hadnt renewed on time the previous year, as shown by a letter
sent on 1 March 2018 advising that the previous years policy had lapsed and renewal
documents showing that K had renewed its policy on 6 March 2018. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 September 2021. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made a number of detailed comments on Ks behalf however, I dont intend to
address them all and will instead focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
The renewal
Given the importance of having a motor insurance policy in place, I think its good industry
practice for a broker to get in touch with a policyholder more than once at renewal to let them
know their policy is due to lapse. So, Ive looked at the contact Aon made with K in the
period leading up to the date the policy lapsed.
Aon said it tried to get in touch with K on the phone on 31 January 2019, but K wasnt
available. Aon said it would follow up with an email - but didnt. While Aon didnt follow this
up, it seems that the purpose of the call was to discuss outstanding payments for the policy
which started in 2018 rather than the renewal. So, I dont think Aon not sending a follow up
email made a difference to whether K knew its policy needed to be renewed.
Ive seen a copy of the renewal invitation dated 31 January 2019. The letter asked K to get in
touch if it wanted to renew the policy. K said it didnt receive a copy of this letter which might
have been due to the fact that post often gets delivered to the neighbouring property by
mistake. This letter is correctly addressed, and I cant fairly hold Aon responsible if the letter
wasnt delivered to the correct property.
Aon said it also sent K a letter on 9 February 2019 which clearly said that as K hadnt been
in touch cover had lapsed from 28 February 2018. K said it didnt receive this letter either
and disputes that it was sent as two of Aons agents said it looked as though the letter hadnt
been sent.
Ive listened to calls between K and Aons agents. K called to ask when the policy lapsed
and said it hadnt received anything from Aon. Both agents said it didnt look as though the
reminder was sent out. The second agent at first said they thought this because the notes
showed that no one had accessed Ks record on that day. The second agent also said the
usual process was to send the renewal documents by post and then chase by phone or
email and that they would expect to see at least one more method of contact before the
policy lapsed. They said they thought the policy had been lapsed without Aon doing
everything they should have done.
In explaining this to us, Aon said the agents came to this conclusion because no one had
accessed Ks record on that date. However, it said the letters are produced and sentautomatically by the system and no one needs to access the record to send them.
I accept that the agent K spoke to personally thought that Aon should have done more to
remind it that the policy needed renewing. But, Im persuaded by Aon that as the letter was
processed by the system, it was most likely sent and therefore I think it did enough by
sending two letters letting K know the policy was due for renewal. I think K also has a
responsibility for ensuring that its policies are renewed at the correct time and Aon has
provided information to show that K didnt renew its policy before it lapsed the previous year
either. However, in that case there hadnt been a claim between the policy lapsing and new
cover being put in place.
K said it was usual practice for it to be notified of its renewal by Aon by emails, letter and
phone calls until 2017. However, Aon said K first approached it for cover in 2017, its process
is to send renewals by post and that is what they did the previous year. I havent seen
anything other than Ks comments to support that Aon sent any previous renewal invitations
by email or that Aon knew Ks communication preference was email. K has provided an
email from Aon from 2017 but as this was the first year K took insurance through Aon, I think
this was from the original sale rather than a renewal.
For these reasons, I think Aon did enough to let K know its policy was due for renewal and I
dont hold it responsible for K not knowing the policy had lapsed.
Delays
Aon said K hasnt paid for its policies dated 2018, 2019 and 2020. However, I can see that
Aon was responsible for not setting up the instalments for the finance agreement for the
policy in 2018 and when they tried to call K to discuss the payments on 31 January 2019
they didnt follow up with the email they said they would.
I can also see that K sent numerous chasers to Aon to try to make the payment for the policy
commencing in 2019. Aon has offered a total of £350 compensation for both this delay and
the delay in providing a copy of the documents K requested through a subject access
request. I think thats a fair and reasonable amount to compensate K for the inconvenience it
experienced in having to chase Aon to make the payments and obtain the documents.
I understand from Aon that due to further issues it still hasnt taken payment for Ks policies.
However, I dont intend to make a finding on that because that wasnt the subject of this
complaint.
Notification of the third party claim
I think it was fair and reasonable for Aon to refer K to the insurer for more information about
the third party claim. Thats because the claim had been made to the insurer and the insurer
was dealing with the claim, rather than Aon.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr O was hoping for, but I dont intend to require Aon to
do anything further.
Both K and Aon confirmed they had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither K nor Aon provided any further comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that Aon 
UK Limited should pay K £350 compensation for its inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman