DRN-3184453
The complaint
Ms B complains that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly gave her a running account credit 
facility she couldnt afford and increased the credit limit multiple times. 
What happened
Ms B applied for a credit account through Studio in September 2017. Studio approved an 
initial credit limit of £100. Studio increased Ms Bs credit limit on the following occasions:
April 2018 to £300
May 2018 to £350
December 2018 to £475
March 2019 to £600
June 2019 to £750
 
In November 2020, Ms B complained to Studio to say the account shouldnt have been 
opened as it was never affordable for her. Studio didnt think it had acted unfairly in opening 
the account or increasing the credit limit. It said it had carried out reasonable affordability 
checks which indicated the limits were affordable to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Studio had 
completed adequate checks and acted fairly in opening the account and increasing the limit 
up to £475. She didnt think Studio had done enough when increasing the limit to £600 and 
beyond. She said further checks on Ms Bs income and expenditure should have been 
carried out. However, Ms B hadnt adequately demonstrated what her financial 
circumstances were at the time of these increases, so our adjudicator couldnt reasonably 
conclude Studio had acted unfairly in increasing the limits. 
Ms B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio initially opened the account with a limit of £100. It hasnt provided us with much detail 
about what its checks revealed at the time of the application. But Ms B hasnt provided us 
with anything persuasive to demonstrate Studio ought to have had concerns about 
approving such a low limit. Overall, Im not persuaded Studio acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in opening the account.
Between the account opening to June 2019 (when the limit was increased to £750), I can 
see that Ms B was often running the account in a credit balance by paying lump sums into 
the account and making overpayments. She also made large one-off payments to pay off 
larger purchases in one go as soon as they were made, such as payments of £193, £180, 
£380 and £370. Ms B was therefore demonstrating for a prolonged period of time that she 
could make regular and substantial repayments in comparison to the available limit. 
I note that from the information Studio has provided that it was aware Ms B had been in 
financial difficulty on other credit commitments in the past. Although there was a record of 
good repayment history on the account, by the time Studio raised her credit limit to £600, 
I think further affordability checks ought to have been carried out. I think as a minimum it 
should have sought to find out what Ms Bs income was, as without any understanding of 
what she earnt it couldnt have reasonably known whether or not this level of credit limit was 
affordable to.
I dont therefore think Studio completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
when it raised Ms Bs limit to £600 and £750. However, Ms B hasnt provided us with any 
persuasive evidence of what her financial circumstances at the time were. Without that 
information, I cant reasonably conclude that Studio acted unfairly in increasing her limit on 
those two occasions.
I note Ms B is now in a debt management plan and has a repayment arrangement in place 
with Studio for the outstanding balance. Just because she started having financial difficulties 
after the limit was increased to £750 it doesnt automatically follow that the lending decision 
was unfair. I say this because Ms B continued to make overpayments to the account for 
around two months after the increase and hasnt given us any evidence of what her financial 
circumstances were. Its equally possible her situation changed shortly after the limit 
increase and I therefore cant reasonably say Studio acted unfairly in increasing the limit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman