DRN-2891249
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain Soteria Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative Insurance 
(SIL) unfairly declined a buildings insurance claim against their policy. They also complain 
about the level of service received.
They want the claim to be met. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mrs M and Mr M said a storm had caused damage their roof allowing water 
into their property. 
SIL instructed two surveyors to report on the damage. The first surveyor said damage to the 
roof wasnt caused by a storm, though as Mrs M and Mr M had accidental damage cover, 
they created a scope of works for the internal damage and contents. SIL told Mrs M and Mr 
M that cover would be provided for the internal damage and contents under the policy. 
The second surveyor was instructed by SIL as Mrs M and Mr M felt the first had missed 
assessing parts of the roof that were damaged by a storm. However, the second surveyor 
also reported that a storm wasnt the cause of the damage, and issues had been occurring 
over time  which was evidenced by Mr Ms comments that previous repairs undertaken 
outside the policy had failed, and there was also evidence of previous poor internal repairs. 
Mr M said hed tried to contact SIL about previous issues before but was unable to get hold 
of them. So, he had repairs carried out privately. SIL said they had no record of Mr M making 
contact prior to the 2021 claim about these issues. 
Mrs M and Mr M said they evidenced a storm took place by showing the surveyor tiles that 
had dislodged from the roof, and the down pipe had also come away from the wall which 
caused damage. They also said Mr M had been threatened by the surveyor during a phone 
call. 
SIL declined the claim as they didnt think damage was caused by a storm. They said bad 
weather highlighted issues that had been present for some time  that Mrs M and Mr M had 
attempted to repair through local contractors, which had caused some of the issues. They 
accepted theyd told Mrs M and Mr M initially the internal damage and contents would be 
covered. They paid them £50 compensation for the loss of expectation after declining the 
claim in full. 
SIL looked into Mr Ms concerns about the conduct of the surveyor during the phone call he 
said he was threatened during. They said no call recording was available and so they were 
unable to comment on this further. They also said the surveyor had denied this. 
Mrs M and Mr M were unhappy and approached our service. 
Mr M told us of his health conditions and said the claim had exacerbated this. He said the 
surveyor had removed part of the ceiling to test for asbestos and left their home in a 
potentially dangerous condition. He also said its possible a previous roofer he employed 
could have caused damage to the roof accidentally. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought SIL 
acted fairly by declining the claim based on expert reports and acted reasonably by 
instructing a second surveyor after Mrs M and Mr M raised concerns. So, he didnt 
recommend SIL should cover the damage to the roof, contents or internal parts under the 
policy.  
Our investigator also didnt think SIL should be responsible for completing repairs to damage 
potentially caused by a roofer Mrs M and Mr M employed. 
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for storm damage
My starting point here is Mrs M and Mr Ms policy. This covers their buildings and contents 
for, amongst other things, damage caused by a storm. But the policy also says under the 
general exclusions: 
8. Gradual Causes: This Policy does not insure loss or damage caused by 
depreciation, wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions, or anything that 
happens gradually. 
 
When we look at claims for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions: 
Was there a storm present on or around the date of loss? 
Is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?  
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer to all three questions is yes, then its likely Id uphold the complaint. But, if the 
answer to any of these questions is no, then I wouldnt usually expect such a claim to 
succeed. 
Mrs M and Mr Ms policy covers storm damage. And the policy defines a storm as: 
Storm: 
Means a period of violet weather involving 
(a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 55 miles per hour; or 
(b) Torrential rain at a rate of at least 15mm per hour; 
Our investigator was unable to find weather records that evidenced a storm was present on 
or around the time the loss was said to have occurred. I can see from the expert reports that 
the date of loss was suggested to have been around early-March 2021. Ive checked the 
weather records for the days leading up to and following this. And having done so, I was also 
unable to find evidence to show a storm  which met the policy definition cited above  was 
present. 
Therefore, Im satisfied the answer to the first question is no which means I dont think Mrs M 
and Mr Ms claim for storm damage should succeed. For clarity, in order to say the answer to the first question is yes, then Id expect weather records to show wind speeds that meet the 
policy definition cited above, accompanied by torrential rainfall. Within the period I looked at, 
the closest weather station recorded rainfall at 4.2 millimetres per hour at its peak. So, whilst 
I agree bad weather was present  as said by the experts who reported bad weather only 
highlighted existing issues  Ive not been persuaded there was a storm that met the policy 
definition. 
Mrs M and Mr M argued the two reports instructed by SIL gave contradicting conclusions, 
but I dont agree. I say this because both reports conclude, in their expert opinion, damage 
wasnt caused by a storm. And Im satisfied the weather reports from around the date the 
loss is suggested to have occurred demonstrates SIL acted fairly in declining the claim for 
storm damage.  
SIL says the main cause of the damage wasnt due to a storm  rather, due to wear and tear 
and gradual causes over a period. In reaching this view, SIL relied on reports given by two 
experts. The reports also gave photos of the external and internal damage. Because I dont 
think SIL acted unfairly by declining the storm damage claim for the reasons given above, Ill 
move onto consider the claim for internal damage and contents. 
Claim for internal damage and contents
For clarity, the policy terms define accidental damage as, physical damage that is caused 
suddenly by an external event and that is unexpected and not deliberate. This means, for a 
claim to be met, the damage mustve occurred suddenly and unexpectedly. There also must 
be an insured event  such as a storm. 
Both expert reports say Mrs M and Mr M have had several roofers out over the past few 
years whove tried to find solutions. And ceilings had been patched up where water was 
entering the property over time. This in my view suggests this has been an ongoing issue 
and therefore not sudden and unexpected. And so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M and Mr M, I cant agree SIL should cover the internal damage or 
contents under the policy. 
I say this because the reports carried out conclude that damage was not due to a one-off 
insured event and has been occurring over a period of time. And, given the absence of a 
further expert report which disputes these findings, I must base my decision on the 
information I do have available to me. So, I dont think SIL acted unfairly by also declining to 
cover the internal damage given the experts have said damage occurred over time and not 
due to a one-off insured event. 
Im aware Mrs M and Mr M were told the claim for the internal damage and contents would 
be covered by the policy and the first surveyor completed a scope of works. But, Im also 
aware the first surveyor noted there was no evidence of storm damage or the operation of 
any other policy peril. The claim was viewed as a gradual process loss and therefore 
repudiated. Therefore, with this in mind and the comments given by the second surveyor, I 
havent been persuaded that damage was caused suddenly and unexpectedly. 
I note the first surveyor said Mr M had attempted to mitigate his loss by having repairs 
carried out previously. But again, on balance I havent been persuaded here the damage 
was caused suddenly and unexpectedly based on what Ive seen. 
SIL said the claim outcome for the internal damage and contents was communicated to Mrs 
M and Mr M prior to a full review of the reports. And following the review, this was also 
declined. I think it was fair for SIL to compensate Mrs M and Mr M for communicating the claim would be accepted, only to decline it later. And I find £50 fairly and reasonably 
recognises any distress and inconvenience this caused them. 
Damage was potentially caused accidentally by a roofer Mrs M and Mr M employed
Mrs M and Mr M also said its possible a roofer they employed previously could have caused 
the leak to occur when standing on the roof. They consider this as accidental damage 
caused by a roofer. SIL said theres a lack of evidence to support this, and in any event, they 
wouldnt cover damage caused by a professional Mrs M and Mr M employed to carry out 
repairs. Based on the lack of evidence to support this and the policy terms which exclude 
damage caused by faulty workmanship or whilst the buildings are undergoing repairs, I think 
this is fair. 
Summary 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded SIL acted unfairly by declining the claim for storm damage 
to the roof, or the internal damage and contents. They relied on expert reports in order to 
decline the claim which I think was reasonable. 
Im aware of Mr Ms health issues and Im sorry to hear of his circumstances. He made us 
aware hes concerned about the potential exposure to asbestos as a sample of the ceiling 
was taken for checks by the first surveyor. The reports mention this was done as part of the 
investigations, and Mr M has told us hes been put in a potentially vulnerable position. So, if 
he can demonstrate that there is a risk, Id expect SIL to consider this and look into resolving 
it. 
I was troubled to learn of the concerns Mr M raised about the conduct of a surveyor he 
spoke with during a phone call. He said the surveyor had made threats towards him. 
Unfortunately, there isnt a call recording available and without being party to the 
conversation, Im unable to make a finding on this aspect of his complaint. Though, Ive seen 
SIL said they contacted the company that employed the surveyor for comment, which I think 
was the right thing to do given the allegations Mr M raised. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M and Mr M. But my decision 
ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with SIL  can do for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman