DRN-3332746
Complaint
Miss K has complained that Northern Bank Limited (trading Danske Bank) unfairly 
increased the interest rate on her overdraft. Shes said the increased charges would make it 
make difficult to exit her overdraft.
Background
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ks complaint and thought while Danske was entitled 
to vary its overdraft interest rate, it should have realised it was unfair to do so in Miss Ks 
case as it ought to have realised that doing so meant it was unlikely shed be able to exit her 
overdraft. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Ks 
overdraft from January 2020. Danske didnt respond and Miss K disagreed. So the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Danske will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Danske acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from January 2020. By this point, 
it was evident that Danskes proposed changes to its overdraft charging structure would lead 
to Miss Ks overdraft becoming demonstrably unsustainable for her. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive seen what Miss K has said about her overdraft usage and 
regularly being overdrawn for a number of years prior to January 2020 and that it is unfair to 
take into account the period she had a credit balance for in early 2019. In Miss Ks view, its 
unfair to take this into account because she was only in credit for this period as shed been 
involved in a road traffic accident and she bought a replacement vehicle with these funds. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss K was involved in an accident. But the funds she received werent 
restricted. And I dont think its unfair to say that she could have chosen to use some or all of 
these funds to reduce her overdraft had she wished to do so. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for me to require Danske to refund the interest, fees and charges for this period 
in circumstances where Miss K chose not to do this.  
Ive also considered whether Danske ought to refund some of the interest and fees it added 
before then. But it isnt in dispute that Miss K hadnt got in contact with Danske to say that 
she was experiencing financial difficulty and I dont think it ought to have realised this for 
itself either. Its fair to say that Miss K did use her overdraft regularly and she may well point 
to this in itself being evidence of her experiencing difficulty. 
But its also fair to say that there were regular credits going into Miss Ks account throughout 
the period concerned. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Miss K expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions being made. So I dont think its fair to say that it 
was the interest, fees and charges which unfairly prevented Miss K from exiting her 
overdraft, when it appears to be case that she had the disposable income to repay her 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Miss K says that these charges did cause her to 
miss payments elsewhere. Im sorry to hear that this was the case and I sympathise with 
what must have been a difficult time. But there isnt anything in Miss Ks transactions on this 
account, in themselves, which ought to have alerted Danske to the fact that this might have 
been the case and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. 
I say this while especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Miss Ks overdraft 
facility is likely to have resulted in adverse information being recorded on her credit file, 
which I think would have been disproportionate considering Miss K appeared able to repay 
what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
However, I think that by January 2020 the situation had changed as Danske had introduced 
a new variable. Danskes proposed changes to the charging structure and doubling of the 
interest rate meant that it would be far more difficult for Miss K to exit her facility  even with 
the disposable income she had. And Im satisfied that, in January 2020, Danske should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Miss K with forbearance 
rather than adding an increased amount of interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
As Danske didnt react to Miss Ks account usage, and instead proposed to add increased 
charges, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. Miss K eventually ended up 
paying additional interest, fees and charges and this led to her being unable to exit her 
overdraft. So Im satisfied that Miss K lost out because of what Danske did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Danske needs to do to put things right for Miss K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ks complaint for Danske to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ks current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Danske should contact Miss K to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss K is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Danske to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Ks credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
January 2020. Danske can also reduce Miss Ks overdraft limit by the amount of 
any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt 
leave her over her limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Danske 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ks credit file. Danske can also 
reduce Miss Ks overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Danske to take off tax from this interest. Danske must 
give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Northern Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman