DRN-3709214
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost after she fell victim to 
an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
On 10 January 2022 Mrs H received a message from whom she thought was her son, but 
unknown to her at the time it was a fraudster impersonating her son. The fraudster tricked 
Mrs H into believing that her son wanted help paying some urgent bills, which led her to 
making a transfer, for £875, to an account that the fraudsters controlled. Mrs H went on to 
attempt a further two payments, but they were picked up by Lloyds fraud detection systems 
and they did not go through.
When Mrs H sent a copy of the receipt for the payment to her son, through a social media 
messaging platform, her son contacted her straight away to let her know he hadnt asked for 
any money, at which point Mrs H realised shed been the victim of a scam.
Mrs H raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds considered its obligations under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
It sent its final response to Mrs H on 4 March 2022, but it didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, it said it was sorry to hear what happened to Mrs H and it appreciated the 
message from the fraudster seemed convincing. But it said it would have expected Mrs H to 
carry out some checks to make sure who she was messaging was genuine and it added that 
Mrs H should have questioned things further to ensure it was her son. Alongside this, it said 
it provided a warning to try and prevent Mrs H from making the payment.
Lloyds did try and recover the money Mrs H had lost from the beneficiary bank (the bank to 
which the money was sent), but unfortunately only £2 was recovered, which was returned to 
Mrs Hs account.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint, in 
summary she thought Mrs H could have done more to ensure that what she was being told 
was genuine, before sending the money. Our Investigator was also satisfied that Lloyds had 
done what it could to try and recover the money Mrs H sadly lost.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
explained to Lloyds that my initial thoughts were that I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
In summary, I said this because with the benefit of hindsight and with the removal of the 
pressured environment, there may be elements we could think of where Mrs H could have 
asked further questions. But I thought Mrs H genuinely believed she was speaking to her 
son and she naturally wanted to help him. I said this especially considering Mrs Hs personal 
circumstances, which I thought arguably would have made her more susceptible to this type 
of scam.
Alongside this, I explained that Id considered the warning Lloyds provided, but noted that it 
wasnt specifically related to the type of scam Mrs H fell victim to, so I could understand why 
she moved past it, especially considering in the messages the fraudster was coaching her 
past the warning. Overall, I was minded to say that, given Mrs Hs age and the wider 
circumstances in this case, I thought the complaint should be upheld, and so I invited Lloyds 
to reconsider its position.
Lloyds didnt agree with my initial thoughts and said that it didnt think that a refund was 
appropriate. In summary, while Lloyds recognised age is a potential vulnerability it said when 
speaking to the scammer Mrs H had an awareness that the bank was indicating to her that 
this was potentially a fraud. It added that her son had never contacted her in this way before 
to ask for money. Lloyds said it was sympathetic with Mrs Hs circumstances, but that shed 
told Lloyds there wasnt anything that had impacted her decision making.
As agreement still couldnt be reached, Ive formalised my findings in a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded Mrs H the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Lloyds should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mrs H 
lost.
- The money was taken from Mrs Hs current account. It is not clear how Mrs H would 
have used the money if Lloyds had refunded it when it should have done, so Lloyds 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Lloyds decided not to refund Mrs H under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment. 
Did Mrs H have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment? 
Ive carefully considered Lloyds representations about whether Mrs H had a reasonable 
basis for believing she was genuinely speaking to her son. Weighing everything up, I think 
she did and I dont think it would have reasonably occurred to her that she may have been 
speaking to a fraudster, and that there was a risk with making the payment. 
Mrs H told Lloyds at the time of reporting the scam, that she only had a son, and she was so 
taken in that she was sure it was him. Im mindful Mrs H has said, the messaging service 
used by the fraudster, was not the usual way her son contacted her. But given the fraudster 
had told Mrs H that her sons phone was broken, I dont consider its unreasonable that    
Mrs H may have not been concerned by her son contacting her in a slightly different way 
than he may typically have done. I say that also as Mrs H told Lloyds when she reported the 
scam, that she didnt think to contact him through the messaging service she usually communicates with him through, as she thought that would be broken too, which I dont think 
was an unreasonable assumption to make, given she thought his phone was broken.
What followed, whilst not detailed, appeared to be a normal conversation about needing to 
borrow some money fairly urgently. This kind of scam is designed to prey on a parents 
natural inclination to help and defend their child. And so, its fair to say, the rationale or 
circumstances may not be questioned as much as they otherwise might be. The fraudster is 
playing on an emotional response, that the parent is unlikely to be particularly aware of at 
the time.
Im mindful that the reason Mrs H was given as to why her son was unable to make the 
payments himself was quite plausible. The fraudsters explained that, due to the phone being 
broken, they were in the process of moving apps and didnt have access to their own 
banking and they gave assurances to Mrs H that the money would be returned to her, as 
soon as they were back up and running. I consider thats not an unreasonable explanation 
for Mrs H to have accepted. And while Lloyds have argued that Mrs Hs son had only asked 
for money face to face before, rather than through a message, I dont think that in and of 
itself is enough to say that Mrs H didnt have a reasonable basis for belief.
Ive thought carefully about what Lloyds has said, in that Mrs H had an awareness, through 
the warnings she saw, that the bank was indicating this was a potential fraud. But I dont 
think it automatically follows that this means Mrs H thought it was actually a fraud. I say this 
because in the details of the messages between Mrs H and the fraudster (which Lloyds 
captured at the time the scam was reported), Mrs H says to the fraudster my bank saying 
this might be a scam and I think the bank think this is a scam. While I understand the point 
Lloyds is trying to make here, Im not persuaded that these messages mean that Mrs H 
actually believes this is a scam. Rather I think she is relaying what she is seeing onto who 
she genuinely believed to be her son.
Importantly here, one of those messages related to the Confirmation of Payee (COP) check 
not matching and the fraudster was quickly able to coach Mrs H through that, by providing a 
different spelling for a surname, which created a COP match. So I can understand how this 
reasonably would have given Mrs H some reassurance. As well as this the other warning 
Lloyds has said it provided had no relevance to the type of scam Mrs H fell victim to, rather it 
seemed to be targeted at safe account scams, which was not happening here. The 
fraudster had coached Mrs H to move past this warning, but even if Mrs H had paused for 
further thought here and studied the warning Lloyds presented further than she did, for the 
reasons mentioned, I dont think it would have resonated with her or impacted her decision 
to move on with the payment, especially where the fraudster was telling her to move on.
People dont expect to be scammed and Mrs H has said she had no idea that fraudsters 
would have been able to get hold of her through messaging in this way. Its important to 
remember when dealing with scams like this, and in fact any scams, that customers are 
generally not in a state of alert when it comes to detecting and preventing fraud. With the 
benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured environment, its easier to identify 
elements where Mrs H may have had an opportunity to ask further questions. Indeed I think 
during the call Mrs H had with Lloyds, when she reported the scam, she does that, where Im 
persuaded she is, on reflection, thinking of things she could have done differently to have 
prevented the scam from happening. While there are things Lloyds, and Mrs H, could think 
of afterwards, with the benefit of hindsight, it doesnt automatically follow that she didnt have 
a reasonable basis of belief in the moment.
I detailed in my initial thoughts to Lloyds some background to Mrs Hs personal 
circumstances, so I dont need to share them again here, but they are an important factor. I 
think given Mrs Hs age (she was over 80 at the time of the scam) and given Mrs Hs circumstances it is arguable that she was vulnerable and that her susceptibility to this 
particular type of scam was greater than it might have been for others.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Lloyds has been able to establish that when 
Mrs H sent the payment she did so without a reasonable basis for belief. It follows that I think 
Lloyds ought to have fully refunded Mrs H under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it 
should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
Finally, Lloyds has said it provided warnings to Mrs H at the time she made the payments. 
Im not persuaded the payment Mrs H made to the fraudsters was so remarkable or unusual 
that I would have expected Lloyds to have identified a scam risk. So Im satisfied it neednt 
have identified a scam risk and in turn did not need to provide effective warnings or question 
the payment before processing it. 
But given Lloyds has argued it provided an effective warning, Ive considered this. While the 
warnings, in part, intend to warn customers about a potential scam, I find that they dont 
meet the definition of an effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. The warnings are 
not specific to the type of scam Mrs H was falling victim to and dont bring to life what these  
type of scams look like or highlight the common features of these types of scam.
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has shown that Mrs H lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, or that she ignored an effective warning.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained, Lloyds Bank PLC should now;
- Refund Mrs H £873 (being the £875 lost, less the £2 that was recovered and 
refunded).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date it declined Mrs Hs fraud claim, to the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman