DRN-2701032
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money that she says she didnt receive when 
she attempted a cash withdrawal.
What happened
Miss C was abroad. She says that she tried to take out local currency from her account on 
17 March 2020. The withdrawal debited was converted to an amount in Euros of 249.20 
including fees. She says that she didnt receive the money and that although it was 
temporarily refunded to her by Revolut it then re-debited the money.
Revolut said that it had raised a chargeback for Miss C. And that it had received information 
from the bank responsible for the cashpoint withdrawal which showed that the money was 
dispensed. In a final response to Miss C it said that it wouldnt be refunding the payment and 
that if say someone else had been able to take the money from the cashpoint then it 
wouldnt be responsible for that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Miss C refunded including 
eight per cent simple interest. Miss C had explained to her that there was to be a national 
lockdown in the country she was in and that she needed to make an overnight bus journey to 
cross the border. She had tried to take out the money in advance of this. She said that the 
drawer of the cash machine located in a pharmacy didnt open and she didnt receive any 
money. She was told there that she would need to raise this with the bank. Miss C said she 
expected that the error would be corrected as had happened before. But that after two days 
when it hadnt she raised this with Revolut. It wasnt practical to contact local police during 
the pandemic and she had been in contact with the British Embassy about leaving the 
country and was told that in the middle of a pandemic this dispute wouldnt be looked at.
Miss C was able to take out money a few days later and her account statement showed that 
she had then made payments in the other country she mentioned - consistent with her 
crossing the land border as she says.
Our investigator said that the information from Revolut didnt include confirmation that no 
money was retained in the purge bin of the machine and didnt definitely confirm the money 
was dispensed to Miss C  for example with a digital record of the notes presented to her. 
She said that she found Miss Cs account of what happened to be credible and that we 
werent restricted to considering only the information requested as part of the chargeback 
process. So, she said that the money should be refunded.
Revolut didnt agree. It referred specifically to the card scheme dispute requirements. And it 
said that the acquirer had met those. It recognised that there could have been more 
information but that it isnt part of a chargeback requirement and so it wasnt in a position to 
demand this. It said that the acquirer had said that there is no difference or duplicity with the 
machine. It appreciated the view that Miss C may have given a plausible account, but it is 
unjust to dismiss the evidence it had provided as being insufficient when it meets the 
relevant requirements 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
This service provides informal dispute resolution and while we take account of relevant 
regulations and as here guidance about the chargeback scheme, we think about what is fair 
and reasonable. That means I need to weigh the evidence presented and I dont think that 
theres been any suggestion that what has been provided by Revolut should be discounted.
It isnt in dispute that Miss C attempted the withdrawal and put her card in the machine and 
authorised the withdrawal. The acquirer has said that the notes were dispensed and that 
there were no issues with the machine. I take into account that what it says is of assistance. 
But I also need to weigh what Miss C says. There isnt evidence as has been stated that for 
some reason the notes werent purged back into the machine as can happen. And that notes 
of the required nominations were dispensed and taken and evidence showing that the 
machine when next balanced had no errors. I can see that the machine was used before and 
after Miss C although I dont have every record  looking at the column headed up 
sequential number in the table from the acquirer. This table seemed to have been shared 
with Miss C too during an online chat with Revolut.
Its possible Miss C was distracted, and not least as she describes an element of panic 
locally due to the pandemic. But she insists she waited for any notes to come out and to 
raise the issue with the shop owner who couldnt assist her. It isnt impossible as Revolut 
infers that when distracted, or if there was a delay in the notes coming out that someone 
else took this money if it was dispensed.
Ive listened recordings of the in person calls Miss C had with this service and read the 
online chat history she had with Revolut. Im persuaded on balance in this specific case that 
her account is consistent and plausible and that she didnt take this money from the 
machine. The question then is whether the error is down to the machine or as I say to her  
in not taking any dispensed money. Thats why the additional information in this case would 
have been so important. Im not clear that any attempts had been made to obtain that even 
on a goodwill basis. So, it wont be available, and I need to make my decision on what is. I 
take into account that Miss C waited to raise the dispute- and didnt for example immediately 
claim- saying she thought that the error would be corrected. Her evidence about making 
local enquiries came out naturally as part of her discussion with the investigator. She had 
taken out a similar amount of money a few days earlier and was able to a few days later 
which as shed explained she needed to cross the border. Im satisfied from what she says 
that she took reasonable care at this cash machine and can see she had used other cash 
machines locally before. In a finely balanced decision, I accept her full account of what 
happened as the most likely one here.
Putting things right
In light of this I agree with our investigators recommended resolution to the complaint.My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Revolut Ltd to:
1) Refund Euros 249.20 to Miss C.
2) Pay simple interest of eight percent per annum on the amount refunded from the day 
it was debited to her account to the day of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman