DRN-2225406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Amtrust Europe Limited declined their claim under their new 
home warranty. 
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs T bought a new home with a buildings warranty provided by 
Amtrust. In 2017 they made a claim on the warranty relating to problems with the roof of 
the main building, which was accepted. This prompted them to instruct roofing 
contractors to check the tiles on the garage roof. The contractors reported that the tiles 
werent fitted in line with manufacturers guidelines. So in October 2018 Mr T made a 
claim on the warranty for the garage roof.
Amtrust investigated the matter but declined the claim. It said the claim would fall under 
either section 3.3 or 3.5 of the warranty. It said cover was provided under section 3.3 
only where major damage had occurred. And only under 3.5 where there was risk of 
imminent danger. It said neither of these applied here.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He said the tiles could fall off and damage one of the cars 
and there was a risk of water ingress. He made a complaint to Amtrust.
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint. It said that although it accepted the tiles may have 
been poorly fitted, the warranty didnt provide cover for this.
Mr T still didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said that although there were problems with how the tiles had been fitted, 
Amtrust had acted fairly by declining the claim as they werent covered under the 
warranty.
Mr and Mrs T didnt think this was fair. They said their previous claim had been accepted 
by Amtrust so they didnt understand why this one hadnt been, as it was similar. And Mr 
T said he had provided evidence that the tiles hadnt been fitted in line with regulations, 
so it wasnt right that this wasnt covered. 
They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has said that the problem with the tiles on the garage roof that Mr T has identified 
isnt covered under the new home warranty. I have considered whether it has made a fair 
decision based on the evidence available.
Mr and Mrs Ts warranty is divided into four sections, as with most new home warranties. 
The first section (3.2) covers just the two years immediately after the completion of the 
house. For Mr and Mrs T this ended in 2016. The other three (3.3,3.4 and 3.5) run for the full 
warranty period  until 2024 for Mr and Mrs T. 3.4 doesnt apply as it specifically relates to 
contaminated land only. I therefore agree with Amtrust that sections 3.3 and 3.5 of the 
warranty are the relevant sections here.
Section 3.3 covers structural insurance. The relevant part of this section of the warranty 
explains that this covers:
i) the cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which has
been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the Underwriter does not
exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification;
So in order for the garage roof to be covered it would have to have been affected by major 
damage.
The policy defines major damage as:
i)Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit tor which a Certificate 
of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter;
ii) a condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of or physical 
damage to any portion ot the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Insurance has been 
issued by the Underwriter;
In either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of:
 the Structure; or
 the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope;
What this means for Mr and Mrs Ts claim is that in order to be covered under this section, 
the garage roof must have been subject to physical damage or damage that requires 
immediate remedial action and is caused by a defect. 
I agree Mr T has done enough to prove that the tiles on the garage roof havent been 
installed in line with manufacturers guidance. However I dont agree that this meets the 
above definition. Ill explain why.
Mr T only discovered the damage because he asked a roofing contractor to inspect the 
garage roof, following problems with the roof on the main building.  And not because the 
installation of the tiles had caused further issues in the garage, or any damage was apparent 
before the inspection. If there was physical damage or damage that required immediate 
remedial action, as is required under this section, I would expect this to have been apparent. 
And it would have therefore been discovered due to problems that had developed, rather 
than through a specific inspection. 
So although I dont dispute that the tiles werent installed correctly, this alone isnt provided 
for under this section of the warranty. Cover is provided where major damage has been 
caused due to the defect and remedial action is required. I cant say this has happened here as the problem was only discovered due to an inspection. So I think it was fair for Amtrust to 
decline the claim under this section of the policy.
I have gone on to consider the other applicable section  3.5. The warranty states it will 
provide the following cover under this section: 
The Underwriter will indemnity the Policyholder during the Structural Insurance Period 
against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying the Housing Unit where such repair, 
replacement or rectification cost is the result of a present or imminent danger to the physioal
health and safety of the occupants of the Housing Unit because the Housing Unit does not 
comply with Building Regulations that applied to the work at the time of construction, 
conversion or refurbishment
Put simply, for section 3.5 to apply, Mr and Mrs T would need to show there was present or 
imminent danger, and that the roof needs to be repaired because it didnt comply with 
building regulations at the time. 
Although Mr T has provided evidence to show the roof wasnt installed in line with 
regulations, Im not persuaded that this presents an imminent danger to him or others. Mr T 
made the claim in 2018, so the garage roof had remained intact for the four years up to the 
claim without any significant problems. If the poor installation presented an imminent danger, 
then I would have expected significant damage to be evident before the inspection was 
conducted. I appreciate Mr Ts point that tiles that arent fitted properly may present a higher 
risk than if they were. But in order to be covered under section 3.5 there would need to be a 
present or imminent danger. And Ive not seen enough evidence that this is the case here.
For these reasons Im satisfied that Amtrust were fair to decline the claim under this section 
of the warranty.
I note Mr T has said that he didnt feel it was fair for Amtrust to accept his claim for the roof 
of the main building under the warranty but not accept this claim. As part of this complaint I 
am only looking at the claim for the garage roof and whether Amtrust has acted fairly in 
relation to this claim. So I am not familiar with the details of the other claim. However, each 
claim made to an insurer will be assessed individually based on its specific circumstances. 
So I cant say that Amtrust accepting another claim about a different part of the house would 
have a bearing on its decision on this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Amtrust Europe Limited to do anything 
differently 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman