DRN-1600249
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs M took out in March 
2003. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didn't agree. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
She would have received generous sick pay from her employer, so didn't need the 
PPI.
Mrs M was struggling financially and couldn't afford the PPI. When we asked for 
more information about this, Mrs M's representative said she was trying to cut down 
her outgoings.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs M's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs M's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding
PPI. Mrs M says nothing was discussed, the form was filled out for her and she was just told 
to sign it. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The credit card application form included a separate section headed Protecting Your 
Account" and the instruction "only sign this box if you require account cover". Mrs M signed, 
separately from the main application, to confirm that she wanted it. I cant say what was 
discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it clear 
that PPI was optional and I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mrs M to check over 
the document she was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think
Mrs M would have still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were taken out in 
a store.So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to
take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her.
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs M said she wasn't 
told that, for example, some medical conditions may not have been covered by the policy. 
But as she hadn't suffered from any of these conditions, I don't think this would have stopped 
her taking out the policy. As she could have benefited from everything the policy offered, I 
dont think having better information about these exclusions or limits would have affected her 
decision take out PPI.
I've taken into account what her representative said about Mrs M's financial position when 
she took the PPI. But I've not seen anything to suggest that she couldn't afford the 
premiums. Mrs M told us she wanted the store card as she thought it would be a good way 
of spreading her costs. But she didn't say she was in any financial difficulties or that she 
couldn't afford the premium.
Mrs M's representative also said Mrs M didn't need the PPI because she would have 
received generous sick pay from her employer. But, as noted earlier, AXA didn't recommend 
the PPI so it didn't need to check if it was suitable. The PPI would have covered Mrs M's 
card payments if she was unable to work due to sickness or an accident until she returned to 
work. This would have been in addition to any sick pay she received. It also covered her if 
she'd become unemployed. So it could have been a useful benefit despite her existing 
arrangements.
Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman