DRN-4243316
The complaint
Mr M complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) provided him with 
a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. Mr M says that had it asked to 
see his bank statements Valour wouldve discovered that he was spending all his income on 
gambling.
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Valour for £2,000 on 18 November 2020. Mr M was due to make 
15 monthly repayments of £266.66. It seems that Mr M still has an outstanding balance to 
pay.
Valour considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to
lend based on the checks it carried out which included asking Mr M about his income and
expenditure and carrying out a credit check. The results of these checks showed Valour that
Mr M could afford the loan repayments.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Valour made a reasonable
decision to provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed
the loan repayments to be affordable. She also didnt think Valour needed to have verified
the information Mr M had provided and so it wouldnt have known about Mr Ms gambling.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. In response he said;
The reason I think savvy should have done more proportionate checks is because of
the amount of pay day loans I was applying for and getting in the periods leading up
to applying for a loan with savvy, this is all over my credit file.
Also it was savvy the company that underwrite a lot of the other loans for example
my loans with [third party names removed] and others.
Probably in the 3 months lending up to savvy more than 10 pay day loans were [sic]
taking [sic] out Some of these companies accepted my complaint and then removed
from credit file so might not be visible by you, but I have letters confirming this if you
would like to see them.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible, 
but in any event no later than 14 July 2023. 
Mr M says that he didnt have any further information to provide. 
Valour didnt agree with the proposed outcome, and Ive outlined its response below.  
Valour confirmed that it verified Mr Ms income and it provided evidence to support 
this. 
The fact there were credit cards at or close to the limit doesnt mean Mr M was in 
financial difficulty. 
Valour says the overdrawn balances on the current account would not flag as metric 
for a decision. This wouldve only become applicable if bank statements were 
requested  but in this case Valour didnt consider it necessary. 
Mr M confirmed he had not taken any further credit in the 30 days before this loan 
was approved and so Valour wouldnt have known of the recently opened payday 
loan.
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. As there was only one loan, the
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ms case.
Valour was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Valour asked Mr M for details of his income, which he
declared he worked full time and received £2,350 per month. Valour says it carried out an
electronic verification check of this amount  and the results confirmed that Mr M had
received at least this amount, each month for the last 12 months. However, no evidence has
been provided to support this check, but because this was the first loan, I think it was
reasonable for Valour to have accepted what Mr M had said.
As part of his application Mr M provided Valour with details of his living costs, this was then
discussed with Mr M on a telephone call with an agent as well as the information that Valour
gathered from a credit search it carried out. As a result of these checks, Valour believed
Mr Ms monthly expenditure came to £1,840.35. Again, as it was the first loan Valour was
entitled to rely on the information Mr M had provided.
Valour therefore reasonably believed Mr M had £509.65 per month of disposable income to
be able to afford the monthly repayment of £266.66. The loan looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then
not react to the to the information it received. Valour was also entitled to rely on the results it
was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate.
Having reviewed the credit check results, I do think Valour ought to have been concerned by
the information that was provided. Valour knew that Mr M had two active loan accounts
costing £358 per month, he also had a hire purchase agreement costing £152 per month as
well as a communication contract costing £21 per month. Finally, there was also a mail order
account where Mr M owed £1,185  but this wasnt all due to be paid at the next payment
date.
The above accounts appeared to be being repaid without any undue difficulty as there were
no adverse payment markers. However, Mr Ms overdrafts and credit cards, ought to have
caused Valour to consider whether it knew enough about his finances.
Firstly, Mr M had five active credit cards, which isnt on its own a concern, but two of the
credit cards were over the prescribed credit limit and one was within £1 of the credit limit.
And for these cards that were at or over the limit, looking at the history, Mr M had, been near
his limits for several months, indicating that he wasnt really making any headway into
repaying his credit  he appeared to be merely servicing the debt.
Secondly, Mr M had three current accounts, one with an overdrawn balance of around
£1,300, and one without an overdrawn balance of £7,495 overdrawn against an overdraft limit of 
£7,500.
I accept that Mr Ms bank(s) wouldnt have expected the money to be repaid all in one go,
but the fact the credit file shows that Mr M had overdraft debts of over £9,000 ought to have
been of a concern considering this was significantly more than his monthly pay. So even
after being paid and assuming all that pay went towards reducing his overdraft  Mr M still
wouldve had a significant amount owing.
I am not suggesting that the credit checks alone was enough to uphold the complaint, but
what I am suggesting that there were indicators that Mr M couldve been overextended and
so I think its entirely reasonable for further checks to have been carried out.
Overall, given that Mr M was borrowing a further £2,000 to be repaid over 15 months, which
wasnt an insignificant period of time for this type of loan and the concerns in the information
with regards to his credit limit on this credit card as well as his overdraft I do think Valour had
to think carefully whether extending further credit was the right thing to do.So given the factors Ive mentioned above, I think Valour needed to gain a full understanding
of Mr Ms actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, looking at
bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation Valour felt it needed to obtain in
order to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Mr M. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that Valour
mightve needed to consider about Mr Ms financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Valour carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Mr M couldnt afford it, or Valour was given some other evidence which
indicated the loan was unsustainable in some other way.
Mr M has provided a copy of his bank statement for the period leading up to the loan being
approved  and as this was one of the documents that Valour couldve used to verify Mr Ms
financial situation, it is, in my view entirely reasonable to review them.
Having reviewed his bank statements from October 2020 and November 2020 I can see that
by the time this loan was approved, Mr M had at least three active payday loans, he was
paying £131.24 for one, £535 for another and had recently received a credit of £500 from
another loan provider. And he was also utilising a revolving credit facility from another well-
known high-cost credit provider.
The bank account statements also show that Mr M was significantly overdrawn even after
receiving his salary. And, I do consider that to be problematic because Mr M was in effect,
using his overdraft  which isnt his money  to pay other creditors that he had.
Therefore, given the number of active payday loans, as well as the overdraft and the term of
the loan I think Valours better checks wouldve led it to conclude that Mr M couldnt
sustainably repay this loan over a 15-month term.
I am therefore intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt have anything further to add, so Ive considered the comments raised by Valour 
in response to the provisional decision. Having done so, I am still of the view that this loan 
ought to not have been granted. 
I appreciate, that Valour has carried out an income verification check, and so, on balance it 
was satisfied the amount Mr M declared was broadly accurate. I say no more about that 
because it has little impact on the outcome that Ive reached. 
Ive considered Mr Ms credit card balances, and as I explained in the provisional decision, 
that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M was having financial difficulties, only that he owed 
balances and was near his credit limits. Which as I said, does indicate that Mr M wasnt 
really repaying the debt but merely servicing what he owed. This doesnt mean he was 
having financial difficulties, but it is a factor that in my view Valour ought to have considered. 
And the same came be said for the overdraft. 
And as I previously explained, given what Valour knew at the time, as a result of its 
affordability assessment it carried out,  I explained why further checks were carried out. And 
this couldve been done a number of ways, one way may have been to have reviewed his 
bank statements  but this isnt the only method it couldve used. The provisional decision explains why, in my view, given the total number of outstanding 
payday loans and how Mr M was managing his current account and existing debts it ought to 
have led Valour to have concluded that this loan wasnt sustainable for him. And Valours 
response hasnt persuaded me to change my mind. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Valour should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly there are
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Valours liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I planning to decide that Valour shouldnt have given Mr M this loan.
If Valour has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back and then take the following
steps. If Valour isnt able to buy the debts back then Valour should liaise with the new debt
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Valour should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Valour 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Valour should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Valour shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal Valour have already written-off.
C. Valour should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour to deduct tax from this interest. Valour should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Valour has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk should put things right for Mr M as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman