DRN-3729327
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) paid to settle 
her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside her store card. 
What happened
Miss L took out a PPI policy with a store card in December 2003. Miss L complained about 
the mis-sale of the policy, and brought her complaint about that to this service. AXA was the 
underwriter of the policy, and had responsibility for answering the complaint; it upheld the 
complaint, and paid compensation to Miss L in December 2017. 
The credit provider for the store card changed in 2014. Miss L contacted that provider in mid-
2017 to cancel the PPI, but it seems that that request was not actioned at the time, so the 
PPI remained in force. A separate complaint was made to that provider in 2019, and it has 
now refunded all PPI premiums paid since 1 July 2017, with interest. In the course of that 
complaint, Miss L received statements that she had not previously had, and she then told us 
that she did not believe that the compensation paid by AXA in 2017 had included the PPI 
premiums paid after the change of credit provider in 2014, so she asked us to look into it.
Our adjudicator found that, based on the information provided by AXA, he could not verify 
that the compensation paid by AXA had been correctly calculated. So he upheld Miss Ls 
complaint about the compensation.
AXA didnt respond to the substance of the complaint and so the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA upheld Miss Ls complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, I am not looking at the sale of 
the PPI in this decision. I am only considering if AXA paid fair compensation. 
When a PPI policy attached to a store card has been mis-sold, the business needs, as far as 
possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they not taken out 
the policy. To do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid, plus any interest or 
charges caused by the PPI being added to the card account. The business must also pay 
compensatory interest at a simple rate of 8% for any period a consumer is out of pocket. For 
store cards, this is when the account would have been expected to be in credit had the PPI 
premiums not been wrongly charged to it. And unless the consumer disagrees, the PPI is 
usually cancelled as part of the complaint process.
In this case, we asked AXA for copies of the calculation of compensation and letter to Miss L 
from 2017. Although the credit provider had changed in 2014, I consider that AXA ought 
reasonably to have known about this and requested details of the premiums paid until the 
date of settlement of the complaint. 
However, although AXA sent in copies of computer records of the account, it did not provide 
any details of the compensation calculation. The computer records included a list of 
transactions on Miss Ls account, but this only went up to August 2014. And AXA said the 
last premium was charged in 2014  which is clearly not the case as PPI continued on the 
account for some years after that. I also note that the only attempt at cancellation of the PPI 
seems to have been made by Miss L, rather than it being dealt with as part of the complaint 
process.
Taking all this into account, I dont have enough evidence to say that Im satisfied AXA 
correctly calculated the compensation due to Miss L in 2017. So Ive decided to uphold Miss 
Ls complaint, and AXA should either provide evidence to demonstrate that it did correctly 
calculate the compensation in 2017, or, if it did not, it should recalculate the compensation 
and pay Miss L the additional amount due. For the avoidance of doubt, the current credit 
provider has refunded the PPI premiums paid from 1 July 2017 (with associated interest), so 
if AXA did not correctly calculate the compensation, it should now do so to 30 June 2017. 
Putting things right
If AXA calculated compensation in December 2017 to include premiums charged to 30 June 
2017, it should provide evidence to Miss L to explain how it did this. 
If AXA did not calculate compensation in December 2017 to include premiums charged to 30 
June 2017, it should recalculate the compensation as follows:
A. Identify the PPI premiums not previously included in the calculation, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums, and charges caused by those premiums and 
any interest added to those charges, and refund that amount to Miss L.
B. If - when AXA works out what Miss L would have owed each month without PPI 
during the additional period  Miss L paid more than enough to clear her balance, 
AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra Miss L paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Miss L wouldve owed something on her credit 
card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
C. AXA should tell Miss L what its done to work out A and B.
AXA should contact the current credit provider, and if necessary Miss L, to obtain statement 
information for the period not previously included in the calculation. If no statement 
information is available, AXA should make reasonable assumptions in calculating the 
premiums, interest and charges, based on the transaction information it does have, and 
explain to Miss L the assumptions made.
*AXA is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any such interest, so it 
should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should also give Miss L a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I have decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. AXA France 
IARD should put things right as described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman