The complaint  
Mr H is unhappy with account charges that Lloyds Bank Plc have applied to his current  
account. He thinks theyre excessive  and says they have put him in financial difficulty.  
What happened  
Mr H complained to Lloyds in March 2019 about account charges that had been applied to  
his account. He told them this caused him to have financial difficulties  and he asked Lloyds  
to refund him all the charges. But he says they werent interested in helping him.  
In their final resp onse letter to him, Lloyds referred to two accounts that Mr H held with them  
and said:  
For the account ending 4460, no charges had been applied since he opened it.
For the account ending 0060, no arranged and unarranged (overdraft) charges had
been applie d.
When consumers dont have enough money in their accounts, Lloyds have to decide
whether to make or refuse the payment. And in some circumstances, they cant
cancel payments.
Their charges changed in November 2017, but this only affects how they calculate
their daily fee in relation to overdrafts. But Lloyds didnt explicitly refer to the charges
that Mr H claimed were charged to his account.
Lloyds also told Mr H he could call their support team if he needed help with his
financial situation.
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator could see that Mr H did have some charges applied to his account ending  
0060  but he thought theyd been applied in line with its the terms and conditions. He also  
didnt find any evidence that Mr H had told Lloyds about his financial difficulties until he  
complained  and thought Lloyds had appropriately referred him to their customer support  
team.  
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to review an d make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, Ive also decided not to  
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive explained why below.  
The account Im referring to throughout my decision is the one ending 0060 as Im satisfied  
DRN-1054064that there werent any charges applied to Mr Hs other account.  
Mr H has said the charges on his account are excessive. Charges on accounts were  
considered by the Supreme Court in November 2009  and the ruling said that account  
charges cant be challenged on the basis they are too high or excessive. So, I can only look  
at whether any mistakes were made when Lloyds applied charges to Mr Hs account.  
I can see that charges were applied to Mr Hs account around May 2016 to December 2017  
totalling around £260. And I can see that these charges were applied because of returned
direct debits.
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr H s account at the time say the following about  
returned direct debits:  
We will charge you £10 per item, up to a maximum of 3 items per day. We will not charge  
you if the amount of the payment we decline is £10 or less.  
I can see that all the charges applie d to Mr Hs account for returned direct debits were done  
in line with these terms and conditions. And he wasnt charged for any returned direct debits  
that were £10 or less. So, I think Lloyds have acted correctly.  
I can also see there was one minor deduc tion in October 2017 for overdraft interest. The  
bank statements show Mr H did go over drawn for several days the month before and he  
didnt have a planned overdraft. The terms and conditions say in these circumstances a  
charge can apply  so I dont think  Lloyds have done anything wrong here either.  
Mr H has said all these charges have led to financial hardship  and when he spoke to us he  
mentioned hed had issues paying his rent. We expect businesses to act positively and  
sympathetically towards custome rs in financial difficulties. In some circumstances this might  
involve refunding some fees or charges  but there are a whole range of activities a  
business might take to support a consumer in financial difficulty.  
So Ive taken a closer look at what happ ened  and how Lloyds responded.  
While Mr H says he let Lloyds know about his financial problems and they didnt help him,  
hes not given us any further information about this or said when it happened. Lloyds has  
said they dont have any record of him telling them about his financial difficulties. So, I dont  
think Ive seen enough to safely say Mr H told Lloyds about his financial difficulties and they  
didnt help.  
I can see that he was declined for an overdraft limit of £200 in April 2018. Lloyds hav e only  
supplied limited information about this and havent been able to tell me how Mr H applied  
and Mr H didnt specifically mention being declined for an overdraft either.  
But Lloyds have confirmed the overdraft application was declined because it did nt meet their  
credit scoring requirement  and they provided records that show this. And I would expect a  
responsible lender to consider an individuals credit score  alongside other relevant criteria  
when making a decision on whether to lend or not. S o, from the information available, I
dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here when declining the overdraft application.
I also couldnt see any activity in Mr Hs account  around this time or during the period  
where charges were being applied  that I think shouldve alerted Lloyds that there might be  
a problem. So, I dont think they needed to do anything different here either.  
But once Mr H complained and told them of his financial circumstances, Lloyds did invite him  
to get in touch with their suppo rt team, who might be able to help him further. And thats  
what Id expect them to do. So, if he hasnt already, Mr H might like to consider getting in  touch with them so they consider what remedy may be suitable in his circumstances.  
I understand that Mr  H is likely to be disappointed by my decision  and I appreciate hes  
going through a difficult time. But as I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong here, it  
wouldnt be fair to ask them to do more at this stage.  
My final decision  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or  
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.  
Guy Johnson  
Ombudsman  