DRN-3860316
The complaint
Mr C held deferred benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). The OPS was wound 
up around 2014 and the trustees of that scheme insured members benefits with Pension 
Insurance Corporation plc (PIC). Mr C complains that PIC isnt providing him with the 
benefits he was entitled to in his OPS.    
What happened
Mr C has insured retirement benefits with PIC that were set up by the trustees of a previous 
OPS that hed accrued benefits in as a result of previous employment.
Mr C became aware that the policy he had in place with PIC didnt provide a feature of his 
previous pension. It was a Value for Money (VFM) provision which provided guarantees 
regarding pension increases. He complained to PIC about that.
Mr C ended up referring that complaint to the Pensions Ombudsman (PO), who gave a 
determination on that in 2018. 
Mr C complained to PIC again in 2021 about a number of issues, including the information 
that PIC provided in response to his queries about transferring his pension benefits to a 
different provider. PIC responded to explain that it identified examples where Mr C had been 
provided with inaccurate information. It apologised and offered Mr C £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience it caused him.
Mr C complained to our service in March 2022. He provided a list of points he wanted to 
raise. To summarise, he wanted us to consider his complaint against PIC and also his ex-
employer. That complaint was described as being the loss of at least one pension benefit in 
the transfer to PIC. Which he referred to as the VFM benefit that had been stolen/removed 
by PIC. He explained that he was so unhappy with the position that, in 2021, he decided he 
should move his pension benefits away from PIC to a defined contribution pension scheme. 
Mr C complained that PIC provided him with incorrect information regarding transferring his 
benefits.
Our investigator explained to Mr C that our service would be unable to consider his 
complaint points about his previous employer. It wasnt a financial business regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  so wasnt a business that fell under the compulsory 
jurisdiction of our service.
And our investigator didnt think we should look into Mr Cs complaint about the benefits 
provided by his PIC policy. As that issue had already been considered by an alternative 
ombudsman service when the PO gave an answer in 2018. Mr C didnt agree, so an 
ombudsman offered a further explanation to Mr C to explain why we wouldnt consider the 
issues that the PO had already given an answer on. 
Mr C re-iterated that his complaint only related to things that happened in 2021 which he 
said hadnt previously been referred to our service or the PO. So our investigator considered 
the events in 2021 in isolation. Which meant looking at the service that PIC provided Mr C 
when making enquiries about moving his pension benefits to another provider.
Our investigator gave his view on how the complaint should be resolved. Mr C disagreed 
with this suggested resolution. He still wanted us to consider the actions of his employer and 
wanted us to get answers from PIC about his missing benefits. So his complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued both parties a copy of my provisional determination. In it I gave my decision on why 
there were certain elements of Mr Cs complaint that our service couldnt and wouldnt look 
into. These related to matters of jurisdiction and dismissal. I explained that:
We couldnt investigate a complaint against a business that is not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out regulated activities;
We wont investigate matters that have already been referred to and investigated by 
the PO;
We could investigate the service that Mr C received from PIC in 2021 when 
corresponding with them for information regarding a transfer of his pension benefits.
My provisional determination went on to explain why I agreed that Mr Cs complaint about 
receiving incorrect information from PIC ought to be upheld. And that I thought that he 
should be paid compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset that those issues caused.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr C responded to my provisional decision in some detail. In it he made a number of points 
and levelled a number of allegations as to the honesty of me and this service. He set out all 
of his objections and re-iterated the points that hed made previously to us. He also stated 
his objection to the fact that his case had been escalated to an ombudsman at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional determination on this case, I said the following:
I would like to reassure Mr C that all of that correspondence is on our file, and I have 
reviewed all of it. It isnt practical for me to comment on all of his correspondence in 
this decision. Our service exists to provide an informal resolution service as an 
alternative to the courts. I hope Mr C wont consider the fact that Ive summarised my 
findings as dismissive.
So Im disappointed to read that Mr C has taken, what I read to be, such offence at my 
provisional decision. Im unable to do anything more than, again, offer reassurance to Mr C 
that I have in fact considered everything in this case. Even though, as he has pointed out, 
the file has become very long.
Mr C questions the fact that his case was referred to an ombudsman. He has pointed out 
that he asked our investigator not to escalate it. Ill explain why this happened.
Our service exists to try to resolve complaints in a fair, reasonable, and impartial way. And 
we operate under rules that are set out for us in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the 
FCA Handbook. It means that there are procedures that we must follow to try to help consumers and businesses resolve issues. 
DISP 3.5.4R says:
If the Ombudsman decides that an investigation is necessary, he will then:
(1) ensure both parties have been given an opportunity of making representations;
(2) send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time 
limit within which either party must respond; and
(3) if either party indicates disagreement with the provisional assessment within that 
time limit, proceed to determination.
Our investigator followed this rule in the way he went about progressing Mr Cs case. Mr C 
and PIC were both sent our investigators provisional assessments. Which Mr C clearly 
disagreed with. Mr C had been made aware that as he didnt accept the investigators 
assessment, the next step would be referral to an ombudsman to issue a determination. He 
could have withdrawn his complaint before that happened, which wouldve ended our 
services involvement in his complaint at that point. Mr C didnt withdraw his complaint, so 
this case is at this final stage of our complaint handling process. This final decision 
(determination) will be our services last involvement in trying to resolve this matter.
Before we can investigate, or ask questions of businesses, we have to be acting within our 
authority. I explained my decision about what we can and cant look into in my provisional 
decision. Ive considered these issues again in reaching this final determination. I dont 
consider that Mr C has provided any additional evidence in his last submission. For the 
same reasons that I set out to both parties previously, my decision remains that our service 
will not be considering what happened when Mr Cs deferred OPS benefits were, effectively, 
transferred to PIC. I still consider those issues to relate to the complaint that was dealt with 
by the PO. So remain dismissed under DISP 3.3.4A.
This means that we havent investigated what happened when PIC took over the provision of 
Mr Cs retirement benefits. It means that we wont be asking PIC, or any third parties, 
questions about any benefits that Mr C formerly held. Quite simply, our rules dont give us 
the right to do so.
Having explained why the above issues arent things that well help Mr C with, Im left with 
the issue of the service that Mr C received in 2021. Which is the service that Mr C received 
from PIC when he was making enquiries about how to transfer his pension.
Mr C needs to be able to continue to contact PIC for as long as he is its customer. And PIC 
needs to respond to reasonable requests for information. And having seen its responses to 
him, I think that for the most part that it has. PIC is not responsible for providing Mr C with 
advice or guidance on how to transfer his pension benefits to a defined contribution pension. 
Mr C would need to get such advice from an independent financial adviser. 
There were however a number of instances in 2021 where PIC provided Mr C with 
information that wasnt correct. PICs own investigation accepted the following errors:
 A phone call where Mr C was incorrectly informed that the transfer value would be 
the higher of the quoted value or the transfer value at the date of settlement. When 
he would in fact receive the transfer value at the settlement date.
An incorrect statement in a letter in August 2021 about when Mr C would need 
financial advice in order to transfer his pension.
Unclear information in trying to answer Mr Cs question about when he would be 
contacted if the transfer value at settlement changed.Incorrectly told Mr C in a phone call that he could do partial transfers.
These errors were corrected for Mr C in PICs response to his complaint in September 2021. 
In what I think was a clear way. But I think that Mr C should have been provided with 
accurate and reliable information in the first place. So I agree with PICs finding that this part 
of Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered the impact of these mistakes on Mr C. It seems he was depending on the 
information and had a right to expect it would be correct. PIC had provided a transfer pack in 
a reasonable timeframe, and the issues arose after that pack being sent in July. Although 
these misunderstandings were cleared up by PICs response in September 2021, I think 
Mr C is likely to have been confused and concerned during that period.
I realise Mr C believes he is significantly worse off as a result of his pension now being 
provided by PIC. But on the basis of the issues that Im upholding, I dont think Mr C suffered 
any financial loss. Mr C could have obtained financial advice but he hasnt. Mr C was unable 
to transfer without it. So any confusion PIC caused didnt delay Mr C transferring his pension 
to another provider. But Mr C was caused distress and inconvenience. He had to engage in 
additional correspondence to clear up misunderstandings that shouldnt have been 
necessary. 
To clarify for Mr C, I am aware how many hours he must have invested in preparing 
numerous lengthy submissions for his complaint. Almost exclusively stating his argument for 
us to investigate the issues that Ive explained were not looking at. But I dont consider 
Mr Cs decision to invest that time to be a consequence of the failing that this case is being 
upheld for. Any award I make must reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
error. For the level of inconvenience caused by confusion over a couple of months, I think 
that the offer of £100 in compensation that PIC made was fair. So I wont be asking it to 
increase it.
My final decision
Pension Insurance Corporation plc has already made an offer to pay Mr C £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Pension Insurance Corporation plc should pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman