DRN-3577340
The complaint
Ms G complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) have discriminated against her by 
refusing to accept her non-UK issued passport as identification.   
What happened
In or around April 2022, Ms G approached Wise to open an account with them. 
To complete their account opening formalities, Wise requested documents to identify and 
verify Ms G. In response, Ms G provided a copy of her non-UK issued passport. But when 
doing this, she saw that Wises identification guidelines meant her passport wasnt 
acceptable to them.
Wise asked Ms G to provide proof of address and an identification document issued by a 
different country. Ms G provided proof of her address in the UK but said she didnt have any 
other acceptable form of identification. This meant Wise werent able to verify Ms Gs 
application. They sent Ms G details of other identification that they could accept.
Unhappy with her experience, Ms G complained to Wise. She thought their actions 
discriminated against her. In particular, due to her country of citizenship. Ms G wanted Wise 
to accept her account application and also to pay her compensation of £4,000.
Wise responded to Ms Gs complaint in writing on 21 April 2022. They said that due to the 
impact of ongoing sanctions specifically relating to the country that issued her passport, it 
was difficult for them to process transactions relating to that country. In particular, they said 
they werent able to open accounts for any resident of that country.
Wise said that their policy was updated in March 2022 when they stopped accepting identity 
documents relating to Ms Gs country of nationality. They didnt agree their actions were 
discriminatory as theyd made it possible to accept alternative identification documents. Wise 
said that their policy changes were implemented to ensure they complied with sanctions 
laws and regulations imposed by different governments and organisations.
Ms G wasnt happy with Wises response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Having looked at all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt agree that 
Wise had treated Ms G unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ms G didnt agree with our investigators findings. She made the following points:
Wises actions are discriminatory even if they do not specifically exclude her from 
opening an account. The request for alternative identification is specific to her and 
her country of nationality which other non-UK nationals do not have to comply with; 
and
certain alternative verification suggested by Wise did not constitute identification and 
was, therefore, misleading and confusing; and
Wises Acceptable Use Policy refers to individuals, entities or countries subject to 
international sanctions. Ms G herself is not subject to those sanctions; and
as Ms G is not subject to sanctions, Wises decision not to accept her passport as 
identification is their choice and within their control.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Gs complaint has been passed to me to review 
and consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Ms 
Gs complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Ms Gs experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service.
Further, its important to note that we cannot make a legal finding that the Equality Act has 
been breached or that Wises actions constitute race discrimination  the Act makes clear 
that this is exclusively a matter for the courts. However, as part of my investigation I do take 
the law, best practice and industry guidance into account so I can make a finding on whether 
I think Ms G has been treated fairly and reasonably.
There is no dispute that Ms Gs country of nationality is currently subject to international 
sanctions and restrictions. As a result of these, the FCA issued a statement providing 
guidance to businesses. In particular, the FCA said they expect firms to have established 
systems and controls to counter the risk that they might be used to further financial crime 
and this includes compliance with financial sanctions obligations.
Wise have explained that following the introduction of international sanctions here, they 
experienced high numbers of account applications where attempts were being made to 
bypass established verification measures. In response to this, Wise made a policy decision 
to stop accepting identification documents issued by this sanctioned country. The policy 
applies to all applications and is not specific to Ms Gs own circumstances.
Wise are aware that most of the sanctioned countrys citizens residing abroad hold 
alternative identification they can accept. These include:
passport from a third country,
driving license from a third country,
permanent residency card,
work visa,
copy of naturalization or citizenship certificate,
student or other visa valid for more than six months.
Wise have provided a copy of this list to Ms G. Ive considered Wises requirements here and whether they could be considered as 
unreasonable or unfair. Ultimately, the driver behind Wises policy is to ensure they can 
confidently comply with their regulatory and legal responsibilities. Their policy applies to all 
foreign nationals of the sanctioned country here  not just to Ms G. Having carefully 
considered Ms Gs own comments and observations, I dont agree that Wise has treated her 
unfairly or unreasonably. Particularly as theyve provided reasonable alternatives to assist 
Ms G in complying with their requirements.
I appreciate that Ms Gs experience will have been very frustrating and upsetting. But while I 
realise she will be disappointed; I cant reasonably conclude that Wise did anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman