DRN-3142606
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the methodology that Nationwide Building Society applied when 
recalculating her personal loans following payment holidays.
What happened
Miss B holds two personal loans with Nationwide. In April 2020, Miss B contacted 
Nationwide because she was struggling to make the monthly payments that were due on the 
loans because of the financial impact of Covid-19. As a result, Nationwide applied a three-
month payment holiday to Miss Bs loans which covered the months of April, May, and June. 
Following this, a further three-month payment holiday was applied to both loans which 
covered the months of July, August, and September.
The conditions of the payment holidays included that the terms of the loans would be 
extended by the number of months that the holidays were in force. As such, when the 
payment holidays ended, Nationwide recalculated the loans to take account of the extended 
terms. Miss B wasnt happy with the recalculated loan terms that Nationwide provided her 
with and felt that Nationwide were unfairly increasing the amount that was outstanding on 
each loan. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Miss Bs complaint. But they felt that theyd recalculated the loans 
correctly, and so they didnt uphold the compliant. 
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Nationwide 
hadnt acted unfairly in how theyd recalculated the loans, and so they also didnt uphold this 
complaint. 
Miss B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that Miss B has made several detailed submissions to this 
service. Id like to thank Miss B for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I havent responded in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
feel are the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
As such, if Miss B notes that I havent responded to a particular point that shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Instead, it should 
be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel its necessary to 
address that point directly here, in order to arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance 
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were 
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of 
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included 
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
The FCA guidance also included that while consumers wouldnt be required to make 
payments during the payment holiday period, interest would continue to apply to the credit 
agreements. This meant that, if a consumer didnt make any payments towards their account 
account during the payment holiday, the total balance outstanding at the end of the payment 
holiday would be more than had been the case immediately before the payment holiday.
Finally, the FCA guidance stated that in the case of personal loans, if a payment holiday was 
taken on the loan account, the term of the loan should be extended so as to reduce, as 
much as possible, the increase in monthly loan payments that would take place as a result of 
the additional interest that would accrue on the account during the payment holiday period.
In this instance, Im aware that Miss B feels that Nationwide have recalculated her loans 
incorrectly which has resulted in her being asked to pay a larger total amounts than she feels 
is fair. 
Taking the oldest of Miss Bs loans into consideration, its notable that Miss B believed that 
there were 13 of the original 60 monthly instalments remaining on the loan, at £320.87 per 
instalment. 
However, Nationwide have provided this service with a full payment history for this loan 
which demonstrates that, at the point which Miss B took the first three-month payment 
holiday in April 2020, only 45 payments had been made towards the loan, meaning that 15 
monthly payments remained outstanding. This can also be evidenced by the fact that the 
first loan payment was in July 2016, and that Miss B made the last regular payment before 
the payment holiday in March 2020, which is three years and nine months  or a total of 45 
months  after the loan commenced. 
Additionally, its notable that Miss B appears to have taken the total outstanding balance 
remaining on her loan from her online account. But the total balance displayed online wont 
provide a true reflection of the total amount that would need to be repaid over the remaining 
term of the loan. This is because Nationwide charge interest on the loan monthly, meaning 
that the total balance displayed on her online account doesnt yet take account of future 
monthly interest amounts.
Additionally, as mentioned earlier, because the conditions of the payment holidays included 
both that the terms of the loans would be extended and that interest can be charged by Nationwide during the payment holiday period, the total amount outstanding on the loan 
would have grown as a result of the payment holiday.
Taking all these points into consideration, it appears to me that Miss Bs calculations in 
regard to this loan are founded on incorrect premises, and I feel that its because of this that 
Miss B has concluded that her loan amount has been recalculated by Nationwide incorrectly. 
And I feel that the same misunderstandings have been applied by Miss B when calculating 
the balance that she believed she be outstanding on her other loan.
Miss B has also stated that she feels that Nationwides recalculations include the application 
of compound interest, where interest is applied not only to the capital balance outstanding, 
but also to previously accrued interest which remains outstanding.
Under normal circumstances, this wouldnt be an issue. This is because, as explained 
earlier, Nationwide apply interest to the loan accounts on a monthly basis. And, by making a 
scheduled loan repayment, Miss B pays off the interest amount thats accrued that month in 
the first instance, with the remaining balance of her payment being used to reduce the 
capital balance. This means that theres never any portion of the remaining loan balance 
post-monthly payment that is made of unpaid interest  all that remains is capital balance. 
So, when the next months interest is applied in preparation for the next monthly payment, it 
is calculated on capital balance only.
However, because the terms of the FCA prescribed payment holidays included that Miss B 
didnt need to make monthly payments but that interest could still be applied to the account 
by Nationwide, this meant that during the payment holiday period Miss B wasnt making the 
payments needed to clear the monthly applied interest as was normally the case. 
As such, it seems possible and likely to me that, for the period that the payment holidays 
were in place, compound interest may have accrued on the account. However, given the 
unique circumstances here, as well as the quickness with which credit providers such as 
Nationwide had to adopt the FCAs guidance, I dont feel that this is unfair in this instance. 
As such, if it was the case that the compounding of interest during this period did occur, I 
wont be instructing Nationwide to calculate and reimburse this interest to Miss B.
Im also aware that Miss B is unhappy that Nationwide havent frozen the application of 
interest on this loan while her complaint is with this service, and that Miss B feels that her 
credit file has been adversely affected as a result. However, in instances where a loan 
remains live and a balance remains outstanding on that loan, as was the case in this 
instance, it wouldnt generally be expected that a business would freeze the accrual of 
interest while a complaint is ongoing, although a business may choose to do so if they feel 
that the circumstances of the complaint warrant it.
Similarly, it wouldnt be expected that a consumer would stop making payments to an 
outstanding loan while a complaint is in progress, as Miss B has done in this instance, and 
as such I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly towards Miss B by making reports to 
the credit reference agencies in regard to the payments that Miss B hasnt made towards her 
loan following the end of the payment holiday period.
It's also notable that in March 2021, Miss B made large payments towards the loans to the 
amounts that she believed should be outstanding on each loan as per her own calculations. 
However, these payments didnt clear the total amount that actually remained outstanding on 
the loans, and so Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Nationwide to continue to consider the 
loan as not being fully repaid following these large repayments.All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have made an error here in how theyve 
recalculated Miss Bs loans following the end of the six-month payment holiday, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take 
any further action in this regard.
 
Finally, it would generally be expected that a credit provider such as Nationwide wouldnt 
allow a loan to fall beyond approximately six months of arrears, but would default a loan 
account that falls into such arrears (which has the effect of preventing the accrual of further 
interest and freezing the balance outstanding). 
The terms of the FCA prescribed payment holidays include that arrears are not considered 
to have accrued during their use. However, its notable from the information provided by 
Nationwide that Miss B hasnt made a full loan repayment since those payment holidays 
ended in September 2020.
It may to Miss Bs benefit that her accounts may not yet been defaulted by Nationwide, and if 
it remains the case that they havent it may also be to Miss Bs benefit to pay off any 
outstanding balance that may remain. But if Nationwide do decide to default Miss Bs loan 
accounts moving forwards, it would be expected that they would apply any default 
retrospectively, to when Miss Bs accounts fell into six months of arrears (not including the 
payment holiday period) and would remove any interest calculated on the balances beyond 
that point before reporting a default amount to the credit reference agencies. Should 
Nationwide choose to allow Miss B to pay off the outstanding balances, no such 
recalculation would be necessary.  
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss B was wanting, but I trust that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman