DRN-3021277
The complaint
Mr L complains that Madison CF UK Limited didnt undertake appropriate checks to ensure 
the lending it provided was affordable.
What happened
Mr Ls complaint is brought by a representative but for clarity Ill refer to Mr L in relation to 
their comments. 
In April 2016 Mr L took out a loan with Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money. 
This loan was for £1,500 over 18 months with an APR of 169.9%. The total amount 
repayable was £2,990.34 with monthly repayments of £166.13.
Mr L says he had become financially depended on loans which were too easy to obtain and 
that hed applied for this one to pay off other lenders. He says hed fallen behind on priority 
bills to make payments and his credit record has been adversely affected.
Madison CF UK says Mr L was required to answer extensive questions when he applied for 
the loan, including about his income and expenditure. It says it works with people with a less 
than perfect credit history and that it had asked Mr L if he had a Debt Management plan, 
IVA, or Bankruptcy. Madison CF UK also says that whilst Mr L had recent short-term lending, 
this had slowed down, and this loan served to break this cycle.
Mr L complained to our service and the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, 
whilst she thought further checks by Madison CF UK would have been reasonable and 
proportionate, she didnt think we had enough evidence to conclude this would have shown 
the loan was unaffordable.
Mr L didnt agree, he said:
No proof was asked for to support his income and expenditure.
He had previously defaulted on several accounts showing signs he was not able to 
sustainably manage his finances.
He had fallen into arrears on previous accounts which should have raised questions.
There were credit searches prior to the application showing hed previously been 
attempting to gain credit elsewhere.
Proportionate checks were not undertaken and so Madison CF UK has not lent 
responsibly.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Madison CF UK was entering a regulated credit 
agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Mr L would be able to 
make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon several 
factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer. For example, their 
financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and cost of credit 
they have applied for would also be considered. 
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been. 
Madison CF UK did undertake an affordability assessment, including a review of Mr Ls 
credit history. In doing so it used a lower income than Mr L had declared on his application. 
These checks showed Mr L had defaulted on several accounts in the past but none of these 
was within the previous 12 months. They also showed Mr L had one loan with a balance of 
£252 and recent credit searches.
The existing loan was Mr Ls fourth consecutive low value short term loan  the need to 
borrow like this is inconsistent with the disposable income Mr L would have had based on his 
declared income and expenditure. I think this indicated Mr L may have been having trouble 
managing his money at the time of the lending. 
This doesnt necessarily mean that the loan application should have been declined. But with 
this in mind, and considering the length and cost of the loan, I think further checks would 
have been proportionate in order for Madison CF UK to satisfy its obligation to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable for Mr L. 
The investigator asked for evidence of Mr Ls financial position at the time of lending to 
determine as much as is possible now what further checks would likely have shown. 
Unfortunately, Mr L has not been able to provide this, for examples his account statements 
from the time.
It isnt our role to be punitive and our service is not a regulator - that is the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I must decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
based on the evidence available.
Without further evidence of Mr Ls financial circumstances at the time, such as his actual 
income and expenditure, and/or further context for his borrowing I dont think it would be fair 
to uphold this complaint. This is because on the evidence available, Mr L ought to have been 
able to sustainably repay this lending. Historical repayment issues do not mean a person will 
not be able to sustainably borrow in the future, and at the time of the lending Mr L only had 
one loan which would have been settled by the next payment. Mr L has told us he was in a 
cycle of borrowing, and that high interest on short term lending meant he was falling behind 
on priority bills. Madison CF UK has said this loan was to help end this cycle of borrowing.
The evidence I have doesnt show whether Mr L was borrowing to meet essential 
expenditure. And whilst consecutive short-term lending can be an indicator of money 
troubles, I dont have sufficient evidence that was the case here. Furthermore, it is possible 
that this loan would have served to break this cycle with a lower monthly repayment.So, on balance, Im not persuaded that further checks would have shown this loan was 
unaffordable for Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman