DRN-2926653
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about the sale of an annuity by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
She says her health conditions should have resulted in her being offered an enhanced rate 
on her annuity. Aviva said otherwise.
What happened
Mrs N had a pension with Aviva. In October 2019 and June 2020 Aviva sent her information 
on her options for taking her pension ahead of her intended retirement age, which was in 
early 2021. 
In December 2020, Mrs N provided Aviva with information on her medical history as part of 
her application process for an annuity. She says she was told by her financial adviser that 
her health would qualify her for an enhanced rate. Aviva said she didnt qualify for such an 
enhancement. Mrs N queried this in a series of telephone calls with Aviva, including with one 
of its underwriters. In addition to her medical history, she made particular reference to the 
fact that she was categorised as being clinically extremely vulnerable during the Covid 
pandemic and told to shield  proof, in her view, that her health issues were significant 
enough to warrant an enhanced annuity. Mrs N also sent in further documentation about her 
health to Aviva for it to consider. It did so, but it didnt change its mind. Nevertheless, Mrs N 
signed a form to take out Avivas standard annuity in January 2021.
Mrs N complained to Aviva about its decision to not offer her an enhanced annuity. Aviva 
didnt think it had done anything wrong given its underwriting criteria meant Mrs N didnt 
qualify for an enhancement. Mrs N referred her complaint to us. Our investigator also 
thought Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. She said, in brief, that an enhanced annuity from 
Aviva wasnt an option for Mrs N. And she said Aviva had done enough in terms of telling 
Mrs N about this and in letting her know that she could have gone elsewhere for her annuity. 
As Mrs N disagreed, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
It should be noted that Mrs N has also complained about an earlier issue regarding a request 
to transfer her Aviva pension. I wont be considering this. Mrs N has already been given 
information on the appropriate way to pursue that particular complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator. Aviva hasnt done anything wrong here. I say this because 
Aviva has a right to apply its own commercial and medical judgement in terms of the annuity 
rates it offers. By extension, Aviva had a right to not offer an enhancement to Mrs Ns 
annuity rate if it didnt think Mrs Ns health warranted it. 
That said, Aviva still had to put itself in a position to assess Mrs Ns case fairly. But Im 
satisfied it did this. Mrs N provided Aviva with details of her medical history, including her 
medical notes. She was given the opportunity to talk to an underwriter after she challenged 
Avivas initial decision. She was told more up-to-date medical information might help, which 
she provided (although it didnt change Avivas decision). I can also see Mrs Ns vulnerability 
during the Covid pandemic  something she thought relevant  was considered even if it 
didnt ultimately make a difference to the outcome. Mrs Ns case was also considered at a 
senior level because it was looked at by the underwriters chief medical officer. 
In short, Aviva gathered comprehensive evidence about Mrs Ns health, gave her the 
opportunity to present anything that might have been of relevance and reviewed its decision 
in light of everything Mrs N said and provided. As such, Im satisfied Aviva acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner towards Mrs N in assessing her annuity application.
Cleary Mrs N knew Aviva wasnt going to offer her an enhanced rate before she signed up 
for its standard annuity because she challenged Avivas decision as soon as she heard 
about it. And Im satisfied she was given enough information by Aviva to know that she didnt 
have to take its standard annuity. Aviva did this by sending Mrs N a retirement options 
letter in October 2019, which said Mrs N didnt have to take an annuity from her pension 
provider and that she should shop around. The letter also said Mrs N should consider 
independent financial advice or free guidance from Pension Wise. Avivas June 2020 
retirement options letter to Mrs N covered similar ground. Avivas annuity quote also told 
Mrs N the standard annuity she would receive and the higher amount she would receive if 
she went with the most competitive provider in the market. Therefore, whilst I recognise 
Mrs N is disappointed with the annuity she ended up with, Im satisfied she was put in the 
position of being able to make an informed decision. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman