DRN-1727880
The complaint
Mr Q complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited incorrectly recorded arrears on 
his credit file. He says this prevented him from proceeding with a business investment.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr Q settled his account with BMWFS. In October 2019 BMWFS issued an 
arrears notice and told Mr Q that his account was in arrears by £1769.15.
Mr Q disputed the arrears but says he didnt receive a reply to his email. He then discovered 
adverse information on his credit file and complained to BMWFS. 
BMWFS accepted that it had made an error and confirmed that the account had been 
settled. It corrected Mr Qs credit file and offered compensation of £250.
Mr Q wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Hes explained that the 
adverse information on his credit file prevented him from proceeding with an application for 
finance for a business investment. He says hes lost out on estimated profits of £25,000 per 
year and wants BMWFS to offer him more compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that because Mr Q hadnt proceeded 
with an application for finance, she didnt think it was fair to ask BMWFS to pay for the 
estimated loss of profit. She thought the offer made by BMWFS was fair and reasonable.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said hed contacted  BMWFS by email to inform them that theyd 
made an error and that he was on holiday for several weeks but despite this they wrote to 
his home address and recorded three missed payments on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Q feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But 
taking everything into account, I think the offer made by BMWFS is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
The crux of Mr Qs complaint is that he was prevented from proceeding with a finance 
application to fund a business opportunity from which he couldve derived a substantial 
profit.
Mr Q has explained that he was due to fund the business opportunity in December 2019 but 
because of the negative information recorded by BMWFS on his credit file, he didnt proceed 
with his finance application and hence didnt invest in the business opportunity.
I appreciate that Mr Q believes that any application for finance wouldve been declined 
because of the adverse information on his credit file. However, I cant be certain that this 
wouldve been the case. In order to consider Mr Qs claim for loss of estimated profit, I would 
need to be satisfied that the error by BMWFS was the reason why a finance application was 
declined. But because Mr Q didnt proceed with his finance application, I cant fairly conclude 
whether, or for what reasons, it wouldve been declined.
Ive taken into account what Mr Q has said about his email to BMWFS. I dont doubt that he 
disputed the outstanding balance and told them his account had been settled.  Its 
unfortunate that BMWFs sent letters to Mr Qs home address when he was away on holiday 
but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this was deliberate. I think its more likely 
that the nature of the correspondence which BMWFS was sending was appropriate to send 
by post rather than by email.
BMWFS has acknowledged that it made an error and has amended Mr Qs credit file and 
offered compensation. I appreciate that the negative information on Mr Qs credit file caused 
him distress and inconvenience but in the absence  of any evidence of a declined finance 
application because of the adverse entries, Im of the  opinion that the compensation offered 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with what this service would award 
had it not been offered.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman