DRN-1822844
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax)(BoS) didnt do enough to 
help him when he fell victim to a scam. He feels BoS could have done more to prevent the 
payment going through, or to refund him the money. 
What happened
Mr S was in touch with someone over social media who offered him membership of a private 
members club. He was sent an application form to fill in and was instructed to make three 
separate payments, totalling £344, to two different bank accounts. He therefore made a 
payment on 13 April 2019 for £100, a payment of £144 on 16 April 2019 and a payment for 
£100 on 18 April 2019. When Mr S didnt hear anything further, he rang the actual private 
members club. It was at that point that he realised he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr S then contacted BoS on 16 May 2019 to report the scam and to see if there was 
anything that it could do to help. BoS contacted the scammers banks to see if any of Mr Ss 
money could be retrieved. The payment for £144 was still in the beneficiary account and 
BoS was able to refund that amount to Mr S on 30 May 2019. However, the other account 
that the two payments of £100 had been paid to had been emptied of funds.
BoS did not uphold Mr Ss complaint because it said that he had authorised and performed 
the transactions himself and therefore it would not be refunding the outstanding payments of 
£200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr 
Ss account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly say that BoS should reimburse Mr S with the £200 he lost. 
Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Mr S 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like BoS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide whether BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
S when he transferred £344 or whether it should have done more than it did. But I dont think 
the payments were particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say BoS ought to have had 
concerns that Mr S was being scammed. I dont think it was sufficiently suspicious to 
conclude BoS ought to have identified that they may be potentially fraudulent. 
Mr S set up the new payee and made the payments online. In doing so he had given the 
private members clubs name as the payee name. Mr S says he was unaware that the bank 
did not cross check the payee name given against the actual account names that he was 
transferring the money to. 
BoS used the account number and sort code as the unique identifiers for the payment 
instruction. In this instance, even if BoS had made it clear that it didnt cross check the 
payees name against the recipient account name, I consider that Mr S would still have 
made the transfer. He was in no real doubt at the time that he was paying money into the 
correct account. 
Checking the account name of the payee did not form part of the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSR). At the time, BoS did not have the facility to confirm account names of 
accounts held at other banks. As such, I dont think it would be fair to hold BoS to a standard that was over and above recognised industry good practice at the time. Overall I dont think 
that BoS did anything wrong by following the instructions Mr S had given to make the 
transaction.
When Mr S told BoS that hed been scammed it acted quickly, contacting the scammers 
bank on the same day to see if any of Mr Ss money was still in the receiving account and 
could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time, all of Mr Ss money had gone from one 
account. However, BoS was able to retrieve the payment of £144 back from the second 
beneficiary account. Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left 
the scammers account werent the responsibility of BoS, and it wouldnt have unrestricted 
access to that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve his money 
was all BoS could do to help Mr S at that stage.
Because BoS didnt correlate the payee name to the actual recipient account name, Mr S 
considers that BoS is essentially supporting criminals by allowing them to exploit this 
loophole. I have explained above that BoS wouldnt have had access to that information from 
a third-party bank at that time. More stringent codes have come into practice since Mr Ss 
transactions were made. Banks are now rolling out Confirmation of Payee which would 
confirm the account holder name when someone sends a payment. This is of course good 
news and should prevent similar scam cases in the future. However, I dont consider it would 
be fair to hold BoS to a standard that was beyond expected codes of good practice at the 
time.
It is extremely unfortunate that Mr S has lost out and I understand that the whole experience 
of being scammed will have been very upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I cant 
fairly say that BoS should have done more to prevent that loss. I cant hold BoS responsible 
for Mr S having been targeted by scammers. And I think that BoS did all it could to help him 
once it knew what had happened. Therefore it would not be fair to ask BoS to compensate 
Mr S for his loss.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman