DRN-1705339
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2003 Miss M took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card by postal 
application. The policy provided protection for Miss M's credit card payments in the event 
she couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out 
a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding card balance and would do so for up to 12 
months per claim. Its basic cost was 79 pence for every £100 Miss M owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Miss M was employed, and she said she was entitled to statutory sick 
pay only. She said she had no other means she couldve used to make her repayments, and 
she said she was suffering from a medical condition at the time.
Barclays' records show Miss M only had PPI on her account for a few months, and she paid 
about £20 in total for the PPI. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint and I said I was likely not to uphold it. I 
said my reasons for reaching this provisional conclusion were:
I thought Miss M chose to take out PPI because she ticked the 'Yes' box on her credit 
application - if she didn't want PPI she could've ticked the 'No' box.
 
Barclays didn't recommend PPI to Miss M, so it didn't need to ensure it was suitable 
for her. But Barclays did need to ensure Miss M was given clear and timely 
information about the policy, so she could make an informed decision about it.
 
I wasn't persuaded Barclays did do that - for example the evidence didn't show that 
Barclays clearly disclosed the full cost information of highlighted the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover.
 
Despite this I didn't think Miss M would've been put off taking out PPI had Barclays 
done anything more. I said this because in light of Miss M's circumstances at the time 
- including what she told us about her sick pay entitlement and other means she 
could've used to make her repayments - I didn't think the policy was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
 
While Miss M told us she had a medical condition at the time, she also said she'd 
had it from childhood, and she considered it was controlled - it didn't impact her day-
to-day life. So, although Miss M would've likely found it difficult to make a successful 
claim on the policy for her condition, I didn't think she'd have thought it was likely that she need to. Because of this I didn't think knowing more about the significant 
exclusions would've therefore affected her decision to buy.
 
This meant Barclays didn't need to pay back to Miss M all of the cost of the PPI.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because Barclays got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Miss M about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Miss M, that was 
unfair.
Both Barclays and Miss M, through her representative, said they had nothing further they 
wanted to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Miss M's case.
Having done so, because neither party has said they have anything more for me to consider, 
I see no reason to change my mind. So for the reasons I detailed in my provisional decision 
and which I've summarised above, I don't uphold this complaint.
This means Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Barclays didn't 
tell Miss M, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided that Miss M hasn't lost out to the extent that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M - I
don't think the policy was mis-sold.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman