DRN-3195939
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard gave her incorrect 
information which unfairly led to a default being registered.
Mrs A is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs A herself.  
What happened
Mrs A did not make her contractual minimum payment to her Barclaycard for a number of 
months from late 2018 to early 2019, which resulted in arrears building up on her account. 
Mrs A and Barclaycard made an arrangement to pay £232 a month in March 2019 to help 
clear the arrears.
Mrs A did not make the payments to her account due 15 April or 14 May 2020. As the 
arrangement was coming to an end in May 2020, Mrs A completed an income and 
expenditure assessment with Barclaycard. The assessment showed Mrs A had negative 
disposable income. Mrs A said her hours had been reduced at work due to the pandemic.
Barclaycard issued a default notice to Mrs A in May 2020. The notice stated that in order to 
avoid a default on her credit file, she needed to pay £464 before 30 July 2020.
Mrs A contacted Barclaycard and was told by the call handler that to clear her arrears, she 
would need to make a payment of £621.42, which was the full minimum payment on her 
account. Mrs A completed another income and expenditure assessment which still showed 
she had negative disposable income. Mrs A informed the call handler that she had borrowed 
from a family member to clear the arrears and the call handler processed the payment which 
showed as a credit on her account on 18 June 2020.
Barclaycard sent Mrs A a letter dated 30 July 2020, informing her that they had registered a 
default with the credit reference agencies as she couldnt meet her minimum monthly 
payment.
Mrs A complained to Barclaycard. She said that the Barclaycard call handler told her that by 
making the payment to her account, this would avoid the default. Barclaycard upheld her 
complaint on the grounds of Mrs A being given incorrect information by the call handler. 
They said that although she made a payment of £621.42, as her income and expenditure 
details indicated she had a negative disposable income, this didnt avoid her account being 
formally closed. 
Barclaycard said that as they a responsible lender, the call handler should not have 
accepted Mrs As payment of £621.42 as she had told them that she needed to borrow the 
money to make the payment. Barclaycard said that they had registered the default correctly. 
They said they credited £100 to her account to recognise the poor customer service. 
Barclaycard asked Mrs A to contact them if she wanted this to be paid to her bank account 
instead. 
Barclaycard said that they had also received £100 payment in September 2020 from Mrs A. 
They said that if Mrs A requires this payment, or the payment of £621.42 back then she 
should contact them on the number they provided on the letter.
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought the £100 Barclaycard 
had credited to Mrs As account for incorrect information wasnt enough. He said that £250 in 
total would be a fairer reflection of the impact the incorrect information Barclaycard gave Mrs 
A. So he asked Barclaycard to pay Mrs A a further £150. 
Our investigator also said that Barclaycard should leave open the option of her asking for the 
£621.42 and £100 payments back if Mrs A wanted to receive these funds back. Our 
investigator explained that Barclaycard had correctly registered the default as Mrs A had 
been in financial difficulties for a long time, even before the pandemic began. He said Mrs A 
had been coming to the end of the repayment plan and had missed payments again and 
based on her income and expenditure, she would not be in a position to make a new 
repayment plan and therefore the default being applied would have been inevitable.
Mrs A asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that she was overseas 
for the time that Barclaycard said she had missed payments and she didnt contact 
Barclaycard because of the cost to do so. She said her husband had tried to make the 
payments on her behalf over the phone, but he was unable to because of security reasons. 
Mrs A said she doesnt trust online banking, so she needed to wait until she returned home 
to make the payments. Mrs A has said the default has an impact on her buying items and 
she needed to rely on credit to buy items for her household. Mrs A said that the default is 
unfair as it hadnt been a long term issue that payments had been missed or late.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to ask Barclaycard to remove the default, I would need to see that Barclaycard have 
made an error in how theyve reported the adverse data to the credit reference agencies. But 
Im not persuaded that they have made an error and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard have a responsibility to report accurately to the credit reference agencies. So 
when the account defaulted, this is what Barclaycard reported. Mrs A made an arrangement 
to pay £232 a month and this was broken when Mrs A didnt meet her April and May 2020 
payments. And she didnt have the affordability from her income to meet the contractual 
monthly payments at the time Barclaycard defaulted her account.
Ive considered what Mrs A has said about her being overseas when Barclaycard said she 
had missed payments. And her husband couldnt make the payments on her behalf, due to 
security processes Barclaycard have in place. She also said that she didnt trust online 
banking, so she couldnt make a payment that way, and also the call costs would be too high 
to ring Barclaycard internationally. But Mrs A may have been able to arrange for the 
payment to be made by direct debit and therefore the payments would have been 
automatically took from her bank account. 
Mrs A could have made Barclaycard aware of her travel plans and have gotten their input in 
how she could manage her payments while she was away. Looking at Barclaycards system 
notes, I cant see that she informed them of her travel plans, so I cant say Barclaycard were 
aware of her travel plans. But regardless, it would be Mrs As responsibility to ensure that 
her payments were made on time, especially as she was on a repayment plan at the time of 
the missed payments.But I am persuaded that despite this, Barclaycard did look to try and find a solution for Mrs A 
as they agreed to a repayment plan when she first came into arrears, before the pandemic 
began. They reduced the interest which was payable on this amount during the repayment 
plan period. Then, they completed an income and expenditure assessment on two different 
occasions. But unfortunately, as Mrs A had negative disposable income, it would have been 
irresponsible for them to set up a further repayment plan. So Im satisfied that as Mrs A had 
needed to borrow from a family member to meet her payments, and due to her negative 
disposable income, that a default being registered was inevitable.
I say this as if the call handler had told Mrs A the correct information when she contacted 
them to pay the arrears, the call handler would not have been able to accept her payment as 
she had borrowed to make the payment. Barclaycard would not have been able to set up a 
new plan based on Mrs A not having enough income to meet her priority bills, so they would 
have informed her at this point that they would need to register a default. 
I know that Mrs A thinks this is unfair as missed/late payments hadnt been a long term 
issue, but it is clear from her credit card statements that she had been in financial difficulty 
before the pandemic occurred. Arrears on her account started to build up from late 2018, 
which led to the repayment plan being set up, as she couldnt pay these arrears off in full. 
Although I appreciate Mrs As financial situation became worse due to the pandemic, such 
as her husband not working during this timeframe and her hours being reduced at work, Im 
not persuaded her financial problems were solely due to the pandemic.  
I can understand its been a difficult time and I can see the reasons why Mrs A was unable to 
come to an arrangement with Barclaycard. With regards to the entries on her credit file 
though, Barclaycard have a duty to report activity accurately to credit agencies and appear 
to have reported activity on this account accurately including registering defaults. I realise 
thatll have a significant impact on Mrs A  but it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Barclaycard to 
remove information theyve recorded that accurately reflects the conduct of the account.
All parties agree that Mrs A was given incorrect information that paying the arrears would 
prevent the default being registered. So Ive considered how theyve tried to put thinks right 
for Mrs A. Barclaycard have said that they credited £100 to her account  and that Mrs A 
could contact them if she wanted this to be paid into her bank account instead. Theyve also 
agreed to refund the payments of £621.42 and £100 back to Mrs A if she wants them to. But 
I agree with our investigator that this doesnt recognise the impact the wrong information 
would have had on her.
I say this as although Im persuaded the default was inevitable, for the reasons Ive already 
given, Barclaycard gave Mrs A the impression that the default wouldnt have been registered 
if she paid the £621.42. So when she realised that the default had been registered, this must 
have been very distressing for Mrs A based on what the call handler had said to her. 
Barclaycard had set an expectation that the default wouldnt be registered as a result of the 
payment she had made. 
I agree with our investigator that a total of £250 compensation should be paid. As £100 has 
already been paid then Im persuaded that Barclaycard should pay Mrs A a further £150. Im 
satisfied that this amount of compensation would be more reflective of the impact that the 
incorrect information would have on Mrs A for the reasons Ive already given.  
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Barclaycard pay Mrs A a further £150 which I think is 
fair in the circumstances as it would bring the total payment for trouble and upset to £250. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mrs A for being told incorrect information about 
preventing a default.  
He also suggested that Barclaycards offer of refunding the payments of £621.42 and £100 
to Mrs A, should remain open to Mrs A if she wants to receive this money back which I also 
think is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mrs A a further £150.
They should also refund the payments of £621.42 and £100 to Mrs A, if she wants to receive 
this money back.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman