DRN-2280822
The complaint
Mr S complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages unfairly recorded 
that he had missed a payment to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Heliodor. In May and June 2020 he didnt make the monthly 
payment that was due to his mortgage. In June, Heliodor recorded that the mortgage was in 
arrears. On 1 July, it wrote to Mr C to say the mortgage was in arrears. On 10 July, Mr C 
cleared the arrears.
Heliodor said that there was a small credit on the mortgage and that meant the mortgage 
was under one month in arrears when the payment was missed in May, so it didnt do 
anything at that point. It was only in June that the amount of arrears was more than one 
monthly payment that it recorded this on Mr Ss credit file and wrote to him.
Mr S said that this situation could have been avoided if his account wasnt in credit in April 
2020. He said that if that had happened Heliodor would have told him that his May payment 
hadnt gone through. He said it was unfair to be penalised so harshly.
Our investigator didnt think that Heliodor had done anything wrong and it had an obligation 
to report true and accurate information to credit reference agencies.
Mr S didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including that:
The missed payment will be on his credit file for six years  and it had already led to two 
lenders rejecting applications from him.
There would be no missed payments recorded on his credit file if Heliodor told him that 
the May payment didnt go through. It used the small credit balance to avoid doing so  
and only told him about the credit afterwards.
Mortgage lenders should have a duty to tell their customers about any discrepancies on 
their mortgages  either credit or debit.
He is now being kept intentionally as a mortgage prisoner by Heliodor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it was a genuine oversight that meant Mr S missed the May and June 
mortgage payments that were due. I know why he feels that it has had a disproportionate 
impact on him and is unfair. But having looked at what happened I cant see that Heliodor 
has made a mistake or acted unfairly here.
As the investigator said, Heliodor has an obligation to record true and accurate information 
on its customers credit files. Im satisfied that Mr S didnt make the payments that were due 
in May and June 2020. Because of the credit of £4.80 on the mortgage, the amount of 
arrears was less than one monthly payment when the May payment was missed. It was only 
when the June payment was missed that the arrears were more than one monthly payment. 
So Heliodor recorded true and accurate information on Mr Ss credit file that he was one 
month in arrears on his mortgage in June.
Mr Ss point is that Heliodor ought to have done more to make him aware of both the credit 
and the missed payment in May  and if it had done so he would have been able to rectify 
the situation before it affected his credit file.
There is no requirement for mortgage lenders to tell borrowers that there is a credit on their 
mortgage  other than in the regular statements that are sent to borrowers. 
The relevant rules state that a mortgage lender must write to a customer once they have a 
shortfall that is equal to two or more regular mortgage payments. So Heliodor acted in line 
with the rules when it wrote to Mr S in July. There was no obligation for it to write to Mr S 
before that.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances and the points that Mr S has made. But after 
doing so, I dont consider that Heliodor has acted unfairly by recording the information it has 
on Mr Ss credit file. It is a fair reflection of the conduct of the account and I dont consider it 
was required to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman