DRN-3074432
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited are chasing him for a debt 
which he believes he doesnt owe.
What happened
This complaint is about a current account overdraft debt that was sold from the original 
creditor to a new company in September 2020. Link manage the debt on behalf of the new 
owner.
Mr M disputes the debt, saying he never had an overdraft and this shouldnt be on his credit 
file. He asked for the credit agreement, and Link went back to the original creditor. But the 
original creditor explained that as this was an overdraft, there was no credit agreement. Link 
were able to provide Mr Ms account statements, showing how the overdraft came to be.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They felt 
the statements showed this was Mr Ms account, and that hed run up an overdraft debt. And 
so Link had a valid reason to contact him, to ask for payment, and to report the account on 
his credit file. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed never asked for this credit. He didnt feel Link had evidenced 
the account was his. He said no one would tell him what this debt was for. He explained the 
original creditor was hard to communicate with and he was unhappy theyd sold the debt. He 
was also unhappy that Link hadnt taken him to court.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
I sent Mr M and Link a provisional decision on 1 September 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can appreciate why Mr M would want to make sure he really did owe this money  he 
wouldnt want to pay a debt he didnt owe.
Ive looked carefully at the statements for this account. I can see it was registered to Mr Ms 
name and address. The statements were addressed over the course of a number of years to 
the same address Mr M gave us. The account received Mr Ms income from the company 
which Mr M was a director of at the time. It was also used for his spending, and to transfer 
money to and from other accounts in his name. And Ive not seen anything which would 
make me think this was not Mr Ms account.
As such, I am satisfied this was Mr Ms current account. I can see from the notice of 
assignment that the debt was sold on legitimately, and that Link are now responsible for 
collecting it. So I think its fair that Link have been contacting Mr M about the account, and 
I think its fair that the account is showing on his credit file. I cant see that Link have 
communicated with Mr M excessively or unreasonably.
Mr M questioned what this debt was for and why he owed it. It was for an overdraft on his 
current account. The account statements show that Mr M spent more money than was in the 
account, running up an overdraft debt. He then did not repay this debt, so after some months 
the account was defaulted and was later sold on. I will send Mr M the statements again so 
he can see this for himself.
I understand Mr M does not recall setting up an overdraft with the original creditor. It may be 
that this was an unarranged overdraft, or that he forgot he had an overdraft facility after the 
years that had passed. But in any case, I can see that he did indeed spend this money and 
run up an overdraft debt, and so this is an amount he genuinely owes. If Mr M is unhappy 
with the original creditor for granting him this overdraft, he would need to take that up with 
them  Link are not responsible for that.
Similarly, I understand that Mr M is unhappy with the original creditors communication, and 
with how they sold the debt. But again, thats not something I can consider in a case against 
Link. If Mr M wants those issues to be looked into, or if he wants to dispute the setting up of 
the overdraft or the payments which led to the overdraft, he would need to complain to the 
original creditor. Then if he hasnt heard back from them for eight weeks, or if they send him 
a final response that hes not happy with, he can ask our service to consider a complaint 
against the original creditor as a separate case.
I also understand Mr M would like a copy of a credit agreement. But sometimes overdrafts 
dont have separate credit agreements, and thats the case here. So I think its reasonable 
that Link havent given him a copy, since one isnt available. And I think the account 
statements are enough to evidence that this was Mr Ms account, not least given its where 
he was paying his income into, from the company which he directed.
To clarify, Link are not obliged to take Mr M to court, even if he asks them to. He can always 
take Link to court if hed like this to be seen in court. Though Id strongly recommend he 
seeks qualified legal advice before going down that route.
I hope I can assure Mr M that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this, and that Link 
still have to deal with him fairly. His repayments should be based on what he can actually 
afford, and if hes in any difficulties then Id expect Link to deal with such issues positively 
and sympathetically. Mr M may want to get back in touch with Link to see what assistance 
they can give him with repaying the account. Ill also send Mr M the details for charities who 
can give him free help and advice about dealing with debts. And Mr M can always get back 
in touch with us for a new case if he subsequently feels Link arent taking his situation into 
account when working out how to repay the debt.
But as things stand, I cant see that Link have done anything wrong here, and I think its 
reasonable that theyve asked Mr M to repay the money he owes.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. But both parties let me know 
that they had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think Link have done 
anything wrong here, and that I think its reasonable for them to ask Mr M to repay the 
money he owes.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman