DRN-3125956
The complaint
Miss W complains about Nationwide Building Societys response to a claim she sought to 
make against it under connected lender liability provisions set out in section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Miss W used her Nationwide credit card to pay £250 towards work being carried out in 
connection with a conservatory being built at the home she shares with her mother Mrs W. 
Miss W says that discussions about the depth of the foundations took place beforehand, as 
they were undecided whether to go for a conservatory or a future extension.
However, in the course of construction, B was unwilling to dig deeper than required for the 
conservatory foundations without additional payment. Miss W adds that B changed the 
conservatory specifications, also incorporating additional work to the houses boiler and flue 
for which a further £1,150 was paid, albeit not using Miss Ws credit card.
Mrs W became dissatisfied with Bs approach and cancelled the agreement. B declined to 
refund the money shed paid. Miss W turned to Nationwide for reimbursement, but it said 
because the contract for the conservatory was with Mrs W, Miss W didnt have a valid 
section 75 claim.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had assessed the situation correctly, noting that the 
property was owned by Mrs W and that she was the party benefiting from having the 
conservatory added. Miss W didnt agree. She asked for this review, saying that while she 
wasnt the homeowner, she lives (and works) in the house and would have derived joint 
benefit from the conservatory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the position Nationwide has taken here isnt unreasonable. 
Although in certain situations section 75 of the CCA provides a useful mechanism for a 
cardholder to pursue a claim against their lender rather than the supplier of goods or 
services, this is subject to specific qualifying criteria. Ive reproduced the relevant CCA 
wording here:
75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Here, Miss W is the debtor, Nationwide is the creditor and the conservatory company (who 
presumably subcontracted construction aspects to B) is the supplier. Im satisfied Miss Ws 
credit agreement meets the section 12 definition, and that this was used to finance at least 
some of the transaction (the building of the conservatory). The key point here is whether 
Miss W herself has any claim in misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Miss W was not herself named as a party to the contract with the conservatory company. 
The contract defines Mrs W as the Customer to whom contractual rights and obligations 
apply. Although Miss W provided some of the money towards the purchase, that doesnt 
make her a contracting party. Miss W cant rightly be said to have been induced by 
misrepresentation to enter into a contract to which she wasnt a party.
Usually, unless the contract confers some sort of benefit on non-contracting persons or 
unspecified persons that fall into a category that is intended to be covered by the benefit of 
the contract, a breach of contract claim would only be capable of being brought by the 
contracting party  in this case, Mrs W. And Mrs W doesnt possess the necessary 
relationship with Nationwide that would make it liable to address such a breach.
Ive reviewed the wording of the contract between Mrs W and the conservatory company. It 
doesnt make any provision for anyone other than the person defined as the Customer (that 
is, Mrs W) to acquire any rights or benefit from the agreement. It isnt enough simply to show 
that she would have benefited from having use of the conservatory.
Thats not to say Miss W wouldnt be able to persuade a court that the contract should be 
inferred as conferring on her a benefit; she might want to take independent legal advice in 
this respect. But based on the situation as it stands, I consider the approach Nationwide has 
taken here to be a reasonable one in response to her claim.
I have thought about the possibility that Nationwide might have instead looked at whether it 
was able to recover any of Miss Ws card payment by means of chargeback, where the 
section 75 requirement doesnt apply. The way chargeback operates would limit recovery to 
the £250 she paid by card.
But I also note that in the claim submissions, theres correspondence indicating that the 
dispute had already been considered by Q, an industry alternative dispute resolution 
scheme. Q found that the arrangements entitled the conservatory company to retain the 
payments made. It seems to me likely that this finding would have been a relevant factor in 
any chargeback claim Nationwide might have looked to make on Miss Ws behalf. With this 
in mind, I dont think Miss W was disadvantaged by the fact the response Nationwide issued 
only stated its position in respect of section 75 of the CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman