DRN-2093843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs Ks son was taking ski lessons. During the course of events, 
he was found in an off-piste area by a ski patroller and a helicopter was called to evacuate 
them.
Mr and Mrs K made a claim to AXA under their travel insurance policy for the cost of the 
helicopter evacuation. AXA declined the claim. It reviewed the testimony from the ski school 
about the incident and said the policy didnt cover skiing off-piste without a guide.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with AXAs decision. They said their son had fallen from an on-piste 
area to an off-piste one, and as such the claim should be accepted. AXA responded to 
Mr and Mrs K and maintained its position.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs K referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. She 
acknowledged there were different versions of events as to what led Mr and Mrs Ks son to 
be off-piste. But she found what wasnt in dispute was that he needed to be rescued from an 
off-piste area. She concluded the policy terms did not cover for skiing off-piste without a 
guide, and as such she couldnt reasonably ask AXA to do anything more regarding the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with our investigators opinion. Mr K said he skis off-piste and 
always calls the insurer to check he is covered. He said his son is a minor and didnt 
intentionally ski off-piste  he fell from an on-piste to an off-piste area. Mr K added that AXA 
were trying to find an excuse not to cover the claim and dismiss it on a technicality.
Mr and Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for the 
following reasons.
Ive checked the policy terms, and under the General exclusions relating to all sections of 
the policy it states, Although Winter Sports cover is included You are still not covered for 
the following activities: off-piste skiing without a guide. 
So, in order for AXA to decline Mr and Mrs Ks claim fairly, it needs to show this exclusion 
applies.
Ive carefully considered the testimony provided by the ski school alongside the testimony 
from Mr and Mrs K. There is some discrepancy as to how Mr and Mrs Ks son ended up in 
an off-piste area. But ultimately I dont think it matters how the event happened, whether as 
a result of an accident or otherwise. What is important is that the evidence (the helicopter 
evacuation invoice) clearly shows Mr and Mrs Ks son and the ski patroller needed to be 
rescued from an off-piste area. This is not in dispute. It is also not disputed that 
Mr and Mrs Ks son was skiing off-piste without a guide.
As such, whilst I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ks sons circumstances, I think it was fair 
for AXA to rely on the exclusion stated above, as the evidence shows Mr and Mrs Ks son 
was skiing off-piste without a guide. 
Mr K has said AXA is relying on a technicality to avoid paying the claim. But from the 
evidence Ive considered, I can see AXA has checked if the helicopter evacuation could be 
covered under any other part of the policy. AXA has concluded the policy does not provide 
cover for this  as Mr and Mrs Ks son was uninjured at the time of evacuation. And I cannot 
see any section of the policy which would cover this event either.
So in summary, I am satisfied AXA has relied on the exclusion for off-piste skiing without a 
guide to decline this claim fairly, and I wont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman