DRN-3257541
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr R complain that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Privilege have declined a 
claim, theyve made under their contents insurance policy.
They are being represented by their son  Mr R2. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr R had property and contents insurance with Privilege.
In early March 2020 Mrs K and Mr R were the victims of a burglary at their home. A couple 
of days later they contacted Privilege to make a claim under their property and contents 
insurance policy. 
Privilege arranged for an appointed representative to attend the property to validate the 
claim and take video footage of the damage caused.
Following this it asked for a breakdown of all the contents that had been stolen from the 
property.
Mr R2 on behalf of Mrs K and Mr R sent a list of all the things that had been stolen  this 
included a list of jewellery, there were 52 items in total. Receipts were also provided, some 
of which showed that some of the missing jewellery had been brought by Mr R2.
Privilege arranged for a jewellery specialist to value the worth of the jewellery that had been 
stolen. The first estimation was for around £95,000. It contacted Mr R2 to explain that some 
of the jewellery that had been listed was in his name  not the policyholders Mrs K and Mr R.
Mr R2 explained that when the appointed representative attended the property to take video 
footage it told him to include a list of all the jewellery that had been taken  including that of 
family members. Privilege explained that the policy will only cover the loss of the policy 
holders stolen items, so Mr R2 agreed to send a revised list.
Mr R2 provided a revised list of stolen jewellery, which consisted of 36 items. This list was 
valued at around £46,000. However, Privilege said that a number of stolen items still had 
receipts that were in the name of Mr R2 - not the policyholders.
At this stage, Privilege were concerned about the ownership of the items that were being 
claimed for so passed it to their claims validation team. The claims validation team appointed 
a loss adjuster to assist with the claim.
The loss adjuster arranged to visit Mrs K and Mr Rs property to interview them about the 
burglary and the stolen items. Mr R2 assisted Mr R throughout the interview. Mrs K was not 
present.
Following the interview, Privilege wrote to Mrs K and Mr R and raised concerns about the 
validity of the claim being made. 
They said they were concerned about some of the answers given during the interview  
particularly about where family members jewellery was kept. They were also concerned with 
Mr R2s behaviour throughout the interview and said he seemed agitated. 
Furthermore, they said theyd retrieved the police report following the burglary and there was 
no record of any jewellery being stolen from the property. And after receiving a further 
revised list of stolen jewellery  this time including only 16 items totalling a worth of around 
£20,000  they were concerned that Mr R2 had deliberately exaggerated the claim to gain 
financially. They gave Mrs K and Mr R the opportunity to respond to the points theyd raised, 
but their response didnt satisfy their concerns.
As a result, they wrote to Mrs K and Mr R in January 2021 to explain that theyd failed to 
comply with the general terms and conditions of the policy. In particular the term which 
explained what would happen if a fraudulent claim was made. They cancelled the policy from 
the date in which they believed they received misleading information (early March 2020).
Mr R and Mr R2 was unhappy with the decision made by Privilege, so they made a 
complaint. Privilege issued a final response letter which explained that it supported the 
decision made by the claims handler to reject the claim and cancel the policy.
Mr R2 remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. It was originally passed 
to an investigator to review who didnt think Privilege had done anything wrong. Further 
information was then provided by both parties and a different investigator reviewed the full 
file and explained that she thought Privilege had acted fairly and reasonably when rejecting 
the claim and cancelling the policy. The investigator went into a lot of detail, including 
listening to several phone calls that Mr R2 had requested, but this didnt change her mind. 
Mrs K, Mr R and Mr R2 remained unhappy with the outcome. They said that theyd asked for 
support from Privilege on several occasions and hadnt been given it. They also said they 
were following instructions when providing details of the jewellery stolen. They reiterated that 
theyd acted in good faith and had not deliberately exaggerated the claim.
The investigator didnt feel like she had anything further to add, so the case has been 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
I understand Mrs K and Mr R feel strongly about whats happened. Mr R2 has also 
expressed his dissatisfaction and has raised several things hed like me to comment on, in 
particular, the calls hed like me to listen to. 
Id like to reassure both parties that I have reviewed all of the available information on the file 
when reaching my decision  but its not my role to comment on every single detail. Instead 
its my role to review the case in the round and reach a decision that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable overall. Ive explained my findings below.The terms and conditions of the policy
Privilege declined Mrs K and Mr Rs claim and cancelled their policy because they said they 
failed to comply with the terms and conditions. More specifically they say Mr R2 exaggerated 
the claim and provided misleading information. When cancelling the policy, they referred to 
the following term:
Fraud
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
 your policy may be cancelled
 we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
 we may keep any premium you have paid.
I understand Mr R and Mr R2 dispute that they tried to deceive, or knowingly made a 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim to Privilege. Its not my role to decide whether I think 
Mrs K, Mr R and Mr R2 have acted fraudulently. The focus of my decision is whether 
Privilege has treated Mrs K and Mr R fairly when declining and cancelling the policy because 
of their concerns about fraud. 
Jewellery items
One of the reasons Privilege has said that Mr R2 has exaggerated the claim is because of 
the lists of missing jewellery that were submitted. In total three different lists were provided to 
Privilege, all containing different amounts of jewellery that had been stolen and all of which 
were worth different amounts. Also, some of the jewellery being claimed for wasnt jewellery 
that was owned by the policy holders  Mrs K and Mr R.
Mr R2 said that when the appointed representative visited his parents property to video the 
damage caused  they told him to include all items of jewellery, including those that belong 
to him and other family members. Mr R2 explained that this is why the initial list was so long 
and for such a large amount. 
Mr R2 also said that the jewellery specialist that Privilege appointed to help value the 
jewellery, told him to include receipts for jewellery from all family members. Again, he says 
this was the reason he provided receipts for jewellery that wasnt Mrs Ks or Mr Rs. 
Ive reviewed the communication between Mr R and the appointed representative who 
visited the property to take video footage. Throughout the communication, Im satisfied the 
appointed representative didnt tell Mr R or Mr R2 to include all jewellery items, regardless of 
who they belonged to, in the claim.  
Privilege has also said it spoke to the appointed representative and they said this isnt 
something they would discuss because they arent qualified to. Therefore, on the balance of 
probability I think its unlikely that the appointed representative gave any advice to Mrs K,   
Mr R and Mr R2 on what to include in the claim. 
Similarly, Privilege also confirmed that it had reviewed communication between Mrs K, Mr R 
and Mr R2 and the jewellery specialist and it also couldnt find any evidence of the specialist telling them to include jewellery items and receipts from all family members. 
Ive also listened to several calls and reviewed communication between the two parties and I 
also couldnt find any evidence that the specialist told Mr R2 to include receipts for family 
members jewellery items. As a result, I think its more likely that Mr R2 decided to include the 
jewellery from other family members in the claim  and it was not because of instructions or 
advice from other parties.
Other reasons for rejecting the claim and cancelling the policy
Privilege has said it wasnt just the amended jewellery list that caused them concern when 
validating the claim. There were other reasons that made them believe the claim was 
exaggerated, fraudulent or false.
Early in the claims process it was claimed that jewellery was stolen during the burglary that 
belonged to a specific family member. However, when this family member was asked about 
the jewellery that was kept at the property, they said only a few items were left there 
overnight at the time of the burglary. The rest was kept in a safe storage unit. They also 
confirmed that none of their jewellery was taken during the burglary. 
Similarly, Mr R confirmed in a signed statement that no other family members jewellery had 
been stolen during the burglary and other jewellery was kept in a safe storage in a nearby 
town. However, when Privilege said this contradicted information that had been given 
previously, Mr R said hed got confused and the jewellery was actually kept in the attic of the 
property that had been burgled. He didnt explain why hed previously claimed other 
members jewellery had been stolen.
Privilege were also concerned because when they reviewed the police report following the 
burglary, a list of stolen jewellery items hadnt been provided even though it had been 
requested. When Mrs K and Mr R were asked about this, they said Mr R2 sent an email to 
the police detailing the jewellery that had been stolen. However, a copy of this email cannot 
be located, and I have not seen any evidence that supports this.
Several conflicting statements were made by Mr R and Mr R2, along with several amended 
lists of stolen items. Having considered the contradictory information thats been presented 
throughout the claim, alongside the three amended jewellery lists - I can understand why 
Privilege were concerned about the authenticity of the claim. 
Overall
I understand Mrs K and Mr R, alongside Mr R2 feel strongly about their claim and that they 
are not responsible for the misinformation provided. But given the inconsistencies that have 
been presented throughout this claim and the significant difference in the total amount of 
jewellery being claimed for  I think Privilege has acted fairly when declining and cancelling 
Mrs K and Mr Rs policy under the fraud term and condition.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Rachel KillianOmbudsman