DRN-2518693
The complaint
Ms D says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms D took out a mortgage in 1989. Around ten years later, in 1999, she took out a PPI policy 
to cover her monthly mortgage repayments. If Ms D had made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid her monthly mortgage 
payments for up to a year. Santanders records show that the policy was cancelled around 
six months after it started.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He explained that this 
was because Ms D wasnt eligible for the PPI policy when she took it out, as she didnt meet 
the employment criteria.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms D 
and to Santander on 18 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Ms D had already had her mortgage for around ten years when she took out the PPI. So 
I thought it would have been clear to her that PPI was a separate product, and that she 
didnt have to take the cover in order to have the mortgage. And I thought she chose to 
take out the PPI knowing that it was optional  although I could understand how she may 
no longer remember this, so long after the event.
Ms D cant remember how she applied for the PPI. And Santander no longer has any 
record of how the policy was sold. I didnt think that was surprising or unreasonable, 
given how long ago this was. For the purposes of my decision, Id assumed that 
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms D. That was to Ms Ds advantage when it came 
to my reaching a view about her complaint, as it meant Santander had a responsibility to 
check that the PPI was suitable for her. But this was where my view differed from the 
adjudicators. Based on what Id seen of Ms Ds circumstances at the time, I wasnt 
convinced that the policy was unsuitable for her.
Ms Ds told us she was unemployed when she took out the PPI. Weve asked her to 
provide evidence of this. But the evidence shes provided only shows that she worked 
during the tax year ending in April 1999. It doesnt show whether or not she was 
employed in May 1999 when she took the PPI out.
Regardless of how she applied for the PPI, I thought it was likely that Ms D was asked to 
confirm that she was employed when she applied for the PPI. And I didnt think it was 
likely that her application for PPI would have been successful if shed said that she 
wasnt working. So based on the evidence provided, I thought it was more likely than not 
that Ms D told Santander she was employed when she took out the policy.
If Ms D had made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have 
paid her monthly mortgage payments for up to a year. I thought it was likely that this was 
longer than Ms D would have been entitled to receive full sick pay for. And it would have 
paid the same benefit if shed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Ms D received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Id borne in mind that Ms Ds mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment, 
secured on her property, and the consequences of falling behind with her mortgage 
payments could have been serious. So I thought the PPI could have been useful to her.
I accepted that it was possible the information Santander gave Ms D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Id explained that I was satisfied that she 
chose to take out the PPI  so it looked as if she was interested in this type of cover, 
even if shes understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Id borne in mind 
that Ms Ds told us shed become disabled a couple of months before she took the policy 
out. And shes provided evidence that she became entitled to receive disability benefits 
in 1999. But that was more than two months after she took out the PPI. And I wasnt 
satisfied that I could fairly conclude from the evidence provided that the policy was 
unsuitable for Ms D when she took it out.
I hadnt seen persuasive evidence to make me think that Ms D was affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. The policy was competitively priced, and as she 
was paying for it monthly, Ms D could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances 
changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So based on what Id seen so far, I couldnt fairly conclude that the policy was mis-sold.
Further submissions
Neither Ms D nor Santander has provided any further comments or evidence, and the time 
for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman