DRN-3496995
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was charged interest by Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).
What happened
Mr P took Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) finance from Ikano. It was for £2,549 and started on 
13 April 2019. It was interest free for a 12-month period, which ended on 13 April 2020. 
He made some payments and so by 4 March 2020, the balance was £1,500 (still interest 
free). He called Ikano on 4 March 2020. Ikano wrote to Mr P on 15 March 2020 to say the 
interest free period was due to end on 13 April 2020. A payment of £1,500 was made on 5 
May 2020. Interest of £569.48 was debited to the account on 19 April 2020.
Mr P complained. He said hed tried to call Ikano many times but couldnt get through. He 
said that if he couldve spoken to them, he would have applied for support under the 
coronavirus measures. But as he couldnt do so, hed been debited interest unfairly.
Ikano said the original credit agreement was clear and said that interest would start to be 
charged from 13 April 2020  after 12 months. Theyd written to Mr P on 15 March 2020 
with the amount due to settle his account without incurring interest; and the date the 
deferred period ended. They said Mr P had called Ikano on 4 March 2020 and a payment 
of £1500 was received on 5 May 2020  after the interest free period had ended. They said 
theyd had to close their customer service phone line because of the pandemic, but their 
payment support line was open throughout, and they also promoted other means of 
contacting Ikano such as email and social media. Ikano concluded that the debit interest 
was due to be paid.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. He said that had Mr P 
been able to speak to Ikano, he would have asked for a payment holiday under the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) scheme. This would likely have been approved by 
Ikano, and Mr P would have then had an extension of three months to his interest-free 
period. He said that Ikano should refund the interest to Mr P.
Ikano didnt agree. They said their payment support lines were open and taking calls. There 
was also a webform for customers to use to advise Ikano if they were affected by the 
pandemic. Customers wanting to apply for support were advised to do so using an online 
form. They could only provide support if Mr P had contacted them  which he didnt. In his 
case, it wasnt appropriate to provide retrospective support without his asking for it. Ikano 
asked that Mr Ps complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The crux of Mr Ps complaint comes down to  did he try to contact Ikano in March 2020 
and April 2020 and if he did so, would he have applied for support as a result of the 
pandemic and would that have been approved by Ikano.
On 24 April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to BNPL 
lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. BNPL lenders, 
including Ikano, had to put in place payment deferrals on BNPL agreements  to help 
customers who were affected. This said that if a customer is granted a payment deferral on 
a BNPL agreement and the customer is within the promotional period, (irrespective of when 
the promotional period is due to end) the firm should implement this by extending the 
promotional period for 3 months. The guidance came into effect on 27 April 2020.
And so  Ive thought about Mr Ps complaint in the light of this. Looking at the original 
credit agreement, this is clear  the interest free period for the finance was due to end on 
13 April 2020  after 12 months. The agreement was dated 13 April 2019 and it says: no 
payments are due for the first 12 months, the deferred period. If the amount of credit is 
repaid on or before the end of the deferred period, no interest will be payable.if the 
amount of credit is not repaid before the end of the deferred period, interest is 
calculated..and applied at the end of the deferred period and each month thereafter.
I can also see that Ikano wrote to Mr P on 15 March 2020 to remind him what was going 
to happen. The letter said: Youre coming to the end of the Deferred Period for your 
Buy Now Pay Later loanPaying back your loan early with no interest charges...If you 
want to pay your loan back early, without any interest charges you need to pay £1500.00 
by 13 April 2020.Paying back your loan with interest chargesIf you choose not to or 
youre not able to pay £1500.00 in full by 13 April 2020, interest is calculated on the 
balance at the end of the Deferred Period The letter also provided payment details to 
be used for any payments and said: Your monthly payments of £127.89 will start on 13 
May 2020 and will be taken by Direct Debit 
I listened to the call on 4 March 2020  and in it, Mr P acknowledged that the interest free 
period ended on 13 April 2020. And Ikanos call handler also said, twice, that the interest 
free period was due to end on 13 April 2020. They discussed the set-up of the direct debit 
for the payments that would need to be made for the amount outstanding.
So  in summary, I think the communications from Ikano were clear and not misleading.
I listened to the call between Mr P and Ikanos payments team on 26 June 2020. And it 
was then that Mr P said that hed tried to call Ikano during the period of the pandemic but 
couldnt get through. And on that call  the call handler said that the number he had called 
on that day  the payments line  had been open throughout the pandemic period. So  it 
looks like Mr P had the number to call which was open.
Mr P told us  that he called and received a recorded message to say that Ikano werent 
taking calls. Ikano showed us their call logs which showed only the calls from Mr P on 4 
March 2020 and 5 May 2020  and so these dont suggest that Mr P did call on other 
occasions. Ikano told us that there was a recorded message which directed customers to 
their website and which said Hello and welcome to Ikano Bank. Due to the exceptional 
circumstances surrounding the Coronavirus, we are unable to service your query by 
phone or by post. If you are concerned about your payments at this time assistance is 
now available from our website. Please visit ikano.co.uk / coronavirus to complete the 
online form. I think this was a reasonable step to take  and there is no record that Mr P 
applied online for the support scheme - or raised any other query with Ikano using the 
online methods.
Ive then considered what might have happened if Mr P had applied for support through 
the FCA scheme. He would only have been able to do this after 24 April 2020 - when the 
scheme was announced by the FCA. By that time, his interest free period had ended (on 
13 April 2020). So  he would have had to ask Ikano to backdate the support for his 
agreement. Ikano, may, or may not have been willing to agree to doing that in the circumstances of his case  we dont know. But as Mr P didnt apply for the scheme, they 
werent able to consider that.
I also dont know if Mr P wouldve been accepted for the support scheme given his situation
 Ikano wouldve considered his income and expenditure; the nature of his employment and 
possible furlough period or redundancy because of the pandemic, and his prospects for 
returning to work. None of this was put to Ikano as Mr P didnt apply for support so we 
dont know if he wouldve been approved for help.
So  in summary, Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence here to say that Mr P 
would have applied for the FCAs support scheme, and if he had, that it wouldve been 
approved by Ikano on a retrospective basis. And I think that Ikanos communications were 
clear and not misleading. And so  while I accept that Mr P will be disappointed by my
provisional decision, Im not minded to ask Ikano to do anymore here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Mr P nor Ikano responded to the provisional decision. I now need to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr P nor Ikano responded to the provisional decision, I wont be departing from it 
in my final decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman