DRN-2267047
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund him for a 
payment made on his credit card.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W was travelling overseas and booked a hire car through a UK 
company  Ill call A. A provided Mr W with a voucher he needed to present once he arrived 
at his destination in order to collect the car from an agency - Ill call B. Mr W forgot to take 
this voucher with him and says when he arrived at his destination, B told him they hadnt 
received payment for the booking and required him to make another payment before 
providing him with a car. Mr W made this payment on the same credit card as his previous 
payment to A.
On returning to the UK, Mr W got in touch with A to try and get his money back. They said 
theyd paid B and couldnt refund his money. So, Mr W got in touch with Halifax in February 
2019.
Halifax told Mr W to contact B and try to get his funds back directly from them, before they 
could raise a chargeback for him.
In April 2019 Mr W got back in touch with Halifax to let them know hed been unsuccessful in 
contacting B directly and asked them to raise a chargeback. Halifax advised Mr W they could 
only raise a chargeback within 120 days of the transaction based on the rules set by the 
relevant card scheme. As it was outside the 120 days they couldnt raise a chargeback. They 
also advised Mr W that as the payment was under £100, he wasnt entitled to a refund under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). As such they were unable to help Mr W get 
his money back. 
Mr W was unhappy with Halifaxs response and brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that Halifax 
shouldve let Mr W know in February 2019 when he called about the 120 day time limit, but 
said that even if they had its unlikely that Mr W wouldve got his money back. They felt it 
was most likely that a chargeback against either company A or B wouldve been successfully 
defended and therefore Mr W wouldnt have received a refund. As such they didnt feel that 
the outcome would have been any different if Halifax had told Mr W about the time limit. And 
they agreed that Mr W wasnt entitled to a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act as each payment was under £100, so didnt meet the requirements to be considered 
under that legislation.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Company B provided Mr W with a hire car in return for the payment he made to them, 
therefore I think its most likely that any chargeback raised against them wouldve 
been successfully challenged and Mr W wouldnt have been refunded.
Company A provided Mr W with a voucher which could be exchanged for car hire 
once he reached his destination. While I appreciate that Mr W forgot to take his 
voucher with him and therefore couldnt use it, Im satisfied that A provided Mr W with 
the service he paid for. Therefore, I think its most likely that any chargeback raised 
against A wouldve been successfully challenged and Mr W wouldnt have been 
refunded.
As both payments Mr W made were for under £100, he is not entitled to a refund 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
I agree that Halifax shouldve told Mr W about the time limit in relation to the 
chargeback, especially considering that when he called them he only had around 30 
days left to raise the claim. But, even if they had I still dont think Mr W wouldve got 
his money back for the reasons set out above, as I dont think a chargeback against 
either company A or B wouldve been successful.
The fact that Halifax shouldve told Mr W about the time limit doesnt mean that Mr W 
is entitled to be refunded. And as I dont think it wouldve changed the overall 
outcome, I dont feel it would be appropriate to make an award against them.
For these reasons I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman