DRN-3248686
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs K has an income protection insurance policy through LV with a deferred period of one 
week. This will pay a benefit if Mrs K is too unwell to work, due to illness. 
In February 2020, Mrs K became absent form work due to abdominal pains. She made a 
claim to LV but it declined the claim on the basis that there wasnt enough evidence to show 
Mrs K was too unwell to work. It said she could have continued to work, with breaks.
Mrs K complained to LV and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think LV unfairly declined the claim. But 
Mrs K disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
During the time of her absence, the Covid-19 pandemic was happening and so it was 
risky for her to attend hospital for a proper check-up. She also had Covid-19 at the 
time.
At the time of her illness, Mrs K was working for an agency, so she didnt have the 
chance to work from home.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and regulations say an insurer must handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm when a claim would be paid:
Quite simply, well pay you if youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your 
occupation and you arent doing any other paid or unpaid workBy tasks we mean 
the things which cant reasonably be left out of your role, or changed by you or your 
employer. It doesnt matter what the illness or accident is, if it stops you form 
working, well pay you your insurance
Mrs K was pregnant at the time of her illness and said she had pain every one to two hours 
for which she had to lie down and rest for about 20 minutes. She has provided letters from 
her GP and midwife to say that the pains were related to her pregnancy. 
LV requested medical evidence from her Consultant and GP. It reviewed the following:
February 2020  a report from a Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist who confirmed 
Mrs K was fit and well. She had been seen at just over 15 weeks pregnant.
May 2020  Mrs Ks GP wrote a report to say Mrs K had seen the GP in February due to her 
abdominal pains. 
July 2020  A further letter from her GP confirmed that the pain Mrs K experienced was 
likely to be related to stress on her previous C-section scar. This worsened if she moved or 
sat for periods of time. The pain would have prevented her from sitting and performing her 
administrative role. He also said she had been categorised as a high-risk pregnancy due to 
this pain and would need to be seen urgently in the labour suite if the pain worsened. He 
said rest was the correct treatment.
LV reviewed the above information and said it didnt demonstrate why the pain would 
prevent her from performing the main duties of her role, even with regular breaks. 
Mrs K provided a supporting letter from her midwife. She said Mrs K was advised to rest by 
her GP and avoid activities which would intensify the pain. She commented that it wouldnt 
be practical to lie down at work every hour and so Mrs K had to remain at home to rest.
LV reviewed the above information but maintained its decline on the basis that there was no 
evidence that Mrs K was referred back to her Consultant for care or that she attended 
additional appointments due to an abnormal or high-risk pregnancy. Overall, LV wasnt 
persuaded that Mrs K was too unwell to work.
Ive considered all of the above evidence in detail and I dont think LV unfairly declined the 
claim. The policy pays a benefit if Mrs K is too unwell to carry out the main tasks of her 
occupation. There isnt any persuasive medical evidence which comments on Mrs Ks tasks 
or why her abdominal pian, with rest, wouldnt allow her to continue working in her 
administrative role. As Mrs K was under Consultant care, I would have expected a referral to 
the Consultant for advice about the pain Mrs K had.
The GP and midwife both say that Mrs K would have been referred to the labour ward if her 
pain worsened. This suggests that the pain was manageable and not so severe that she 
couldnt work. The midwife comments that it wouldnt be practical for Mrs K to lie down at 
work but as she was pregnant, I dont see why an adjustment couldnt be made by her 
employer to allow rest breaks due to a high-risk pregnancy. 
In addition, I havent seen any notes from Mrs Ks visits to her GP at the time she became 
absent apart from her sick notes. These notes dont go into any detail and dont explain why 
Mrs K wouldnt be able to continue working in her role. So Im not satisfied that Mrs K has 
shown that she meets the terms of the policy. 
Mrs K has also said that she had Covid-19 at the time and as a result of the pandemic, she 
wasnt referred to hospital for investigations. But Mrs K hasnt presented this information to 
LV and there is no evidence that this was the reason why she didnt attend hospital. If Mrs K 
has further evidence to show that she was unable to work due to Covid-19, she would need 
to send this information to LV for consideration.
Mrs K also says she wasnt able to work from home as she was an agency worker. As LV 
thought Mrs K could have continued to work at her place of work, with breaks, I dont think 
this makes any difference to the outcome.I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision and I dont doubt that she was 
unwell during the time of her absence. But the medical evidence from the time of her 
absence is lacking. And there is insufficient medical evidence to support that she wouldnt be 
able to work, with breaks, due to her abdominal pain.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman