DRN-2184909
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that when he made a claim for his dogs treatment in August 2019, Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited added an exclusion to his policy, in respect of 
claims relating to the dogs digestive system.
What happened
Mr A took out insurance for his dog with Red Sands in March 2018. When he applied for 
cover, he was asked whether his dog had been taken to the vet, for anything other than 
routine vaccinations. Mr A answered no to this question. When he was sent his policy 
documents these included a list of the questions hed been asked, and his answers. He was 
told to check that the information was correct and if not, he should call Red Sands. The 
policy also clearly states that theres no cover for pre-existing conditions.
In August 2019 Mr As dog was unwell and had to be taken to his local emergency vet. Mr A 
submitted a claim to Red Sands for the cost of this treatment. This claim was paid, but 
before it was Red Sands had requested the dogs clinical records. Having reviewed these 
they told Mr A, that prior to him taking out the policy, his dog had been treated for diarrhoea 
and vomiting, and it had been confirmed that he had campylobacter. 
Red Sands said that this should have disclosed when Mr A took out the policy, and had it 
been, theyd have added an exclusion to the policy for any claims related to the digestive 
system. So they added this exclusion, backdating it to when the policy was taken out.
Mr A was unhappy about the exclusion being added to his policy and complained to Red 
Sands. He said hed paid for his dogs earlier treatment himself, and that campylobacter was 
a self-limiting infection his dog had picked up from eating cat poo, not an underlying 
condition. So while hed not object to an exclusion for any treatment related to 
campylobacter, he felt an exclusion related to the whole of his dogs digestive system, which 
included multiple organs, was far too wide. 
Red Sands didnt uphold Mr As complaint as they said the exclusion would have been 
added when he took out the policy, if hed declared his dogs history. In their response to Mr 
As complaint they set out details of all the entries in the dogs clinical records relating to 
digestive complaints. And they said theyd considered the full clinical history before reaching 
their decision to add the exclusion to the policy
Mr A then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said that Mr 
A should have declared the conditions his dog had received treatment for, when he took out 
the policy. Even if he considered these to be minor, or hed paid for the treatment himself. 
And given the dogs clinical history he thought the exclusion was fair, and what would have 
been added to the policy at inception. So he didnt think Red Sands had done anything 
wrong in adding the exclusion to Mr As policy.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said that his dog didnt have any pre-
existing condition, he had the canine equivalent of food poisoning, which had resolved, so 
there was nothing for him to declare. And he said our investigator hadnt explained why he 
felt it was fair to apply an exclusion for the whole of the digestive system.
Our investigator then asked Red Sands to confirm what theyd considered when adding the 
exclusion to the policy, as Mr A believed it was simply related to the episode of 
campylobacter. They confirmed that the exclusion was based on the dogs entire clinical 
history. So our investigator didnt change his opinion that Red Sands had done nothing 
wrong in adding the exclusion to the policy.
Since our investigator provided his opinion, weve asked Mr A to provide some further 
information about the campylobacter infection his dog suffered from in 2017. He initially told 
us that he remembered his dog eating cat poo, which he believed to be the cause of the 
infection. But as the vets records refer to two campylobacter infections, one in 2017 and a 
second in 2018, we asked him to confirm which episode he believed was related to his dog 
eating cat poo.
Mr A has now told us that after looking at his dogs clinical records again, his vet missed the 
positive campylobacter test result in April 2017. He was simply told to keep his dog on a 
hypoallergenic diet. And as he wasnt told his dog had campylobacter before he took out his 
policy, he now believes thats its unfair for Red Sands to have added any exclusion.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr A took out his policy online, he was asked whether hed even taken his dog to the 
vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. Mr A doesnt dispute that he answered no to 
this question. Ive considered his dogs clinical records and these show that before Mr A took 
out his policy with Red Sands his dog attended the vets seven times with digestive 
complaints. The records show that Mr A reported that his dog was vomiting, regurgitating 
food and suffering from diarrhoea.
The first visit was on 21 December 2016 when the dog was vomiting. He was seen again 
later in December 2016. Mr A dismisses this as nothing, saying it was just like having an 
upset stomach. But an upset stomach is an illness, regardless of the cause. And it was 
significant enough for the dog to be taken to the vet twice, so I dont think it can be 
dismissed as nothing. And the records also say that the dog was booked in for his 
vaccinations the following day, 22 December 2016. Its usual for there to be two to four 
weeks between doses, so I think its unlikely the dog had just had his first vaccinations.
On 19 February 2017 the dog was regurgitating food and Mr A had noted blood in his mouth. 
Then in April 2017 he was seen by the vet three times with chronic diarrhoea. On the first of 
these visits the vet wasnt sure what was causing the dogs problems and suggested 
possible colitis, or a dietary intolerance. When the problems didnt settle a bland diet and 
blood tests were recommended. On 18 April 2017 there are details of the dogs test results 
and these say that campylobacter had been isolated. But as theres also a note saying, 
results all normal - recommend hypoallergenic diet trial, I accept what Mr A has told us. 
That prior to taking out the policy, he didnt know his dog had tested positive for 
campylobacter.There were two further visits to the vet in June and December 2017 related to the dog 
regurgitating food and suffering from diarrhoea. Both of these were thought to be related to a 
reaction to a type of dog treat.
Regardless of the cause, or that Mr A paid for his dogs treatment himself, this is a significant 
history of complaints related to the digestive system, prior to the policy being taken out, 
which Mr A didnt declare. Hes said he didnt declare his dogs clinical history because he 
wasnt suffering from any condition. But thats not what he was asked. He was specifically 
asked about visits to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. And as there had 
been visits to the vets relating to digestive problems, Im satisfied Mr A should have declared 
his dogs treatment history.
The reason insurers ask questions about a pets clinical history is so they can assess risk, 
and consider whether they can offer cover, and if so on what terms and conditions. By failing 
to declare his dogs history, Mr A hasnt provided Red Sands with the full information they 
needed to properly assess the cover they could offer. Had he declared the full history Im 
satisfied that Red Sands would have added an exclusion to his policy, in respect of his dogs 
digestive system, from inception. And Mr A would then have had 14 days to decide whether 
the cover they offered was suitable for him.
Red Sands added the exclusion when they considered the dogs clinical history in August 
2019. Having reviewed the records Red Sands sent him Mr A doesnt believe it was fair for 
Red Sands to add any exclusion to his policy.
If Mr As dog had only had one episode of digestive problems, some time before the policy 
was taken out and this had resolved, then I might agree that the exclusion is unfair. But the 
records show what would be regarded as a significant history of digestive complaints. Red 
Sands have told us they added the exclusion based on the whole of the dogs clinical history, 
and I think it was reasonable for them to do this. So, Im not persuaded that they did 
anything wrong, and I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint 
against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman