DRN-3860194
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs D applied for a Tesco Bank credit card in July 2014. The initial credit limit was £2,400. 
This was increased in September 2018 to £5,400. Mrs D says the lending was irresponsible 
and that she has had to take on new debt to afford to make repayments.
Tesco Bank says that before it provided the credit card it carried out proportionate checks. It 
gathered information about Mrs Ds income and credit commitments and used an estimate 
for her living expenses. It says based on this the credit card with an initial credit limit of 
£2,400 was affordable. In September 2018, Mrs Ds credit limit was increased by £3,000 to 
£5,400. Tesco Bank says that before it provided in the increase it checked Mrs Ds income 
and other credit commitments. Tesco Bank noted that Mrs Ds credit limit was reduced to 
£4,100 in August 2020 following an account review.
Our investigator initially issued a jurisdiction view as the credit card was issued more than 
six years before Mrs D raised her complaint. Tesco Bank agreed to the credit card lending 
being considered. Our investigator considered the merits of Mrs Ds complaint. She didnt 
think that Tesco Bank had done anything wrong by providing Mrs D with the credit card in 
July 2014 or increasing the credit limit in September 2018.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had needed to take out more 
debt to make her repayments which showed the lending was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
This decision is about Mrs Ds Tesco credit card and the credit limits given.
Account opening
Mrs Ds credit card account was opened in July 2014 with an initial credit limit of £2,400. 
Before the credit card was provided, Tesco Bank gathered information about Mrs Ds 
employment and income and her residential status and credit commitments. Mrs Ds monthly 
income was recorded as £1,350 and her mortgage payments as £407. Additional to her 
mortgage repayments Mrs D had £1,879 or other debts. Tesco Bank estimated Mrs Ds 
committed living expenses to be 30% of her net monthly income. I note Mrs D had said she 
had no dependents. 
Mrs Ds credit check showed she had a default, but this was historic (recorded 28 months 
prior to the application). The credit report showed that at the time of the application Mrs D 
was managing her accounts well. Given this I do not find it unreasonable that Tesco Bank 
relied on the information provided by Mrs D about her income and through its credit checks. 
Noting the size of the credit limit provided and the repayments that would be due compared 
to Mrs Ds income I also do not find in this case that it was unreasonable to rely on the 
estimated living costs. Therefore, I find that Tesco Bank undertook reasonable checks 
before providing Mrs D with a credit card account. As these checks suggested the lending 
was affordable, I do not find I can say it did anything wrong at this stage.
Credit limit increase
Mrs Ds credit limit was increased in September 2018 by £3,000 giving a credit limit of 
£5,400. This was a significant increase and while I note Tesco Bank has said Mrs D could 
have opted out of the increase, it was still Tesco Banks responsibility to ensure that the 
additional lending was sustainably affordable for Mrs D.
I have looked at Mrs Ds credit card statements for the months leading up to the increase 
and can see that she was managing her account well. The balance was within the credit limit 
and she was making monthly repayments above the minimum amount required. Therefore, I 
do not find that her account management raised concerns that meant an increase shouldnt 
be considered.
Before providing the credit limit increase, Tesco Bank says that credit bureau information 
confirmed Mrs Ds monthly income as £1,900 and that she had £4,234 of revolving debt. It 
said that Mrs D had been managing her account well and that taking into account an 
allowance for her living costs, the credit limit increase appeared affordable. 
While I note the checks that were undertaken, I havent seen the results of the credit check 
from the time and given the size of the credit limit increase I think it would have been 
reasonable for Tesco Bank to have asked Mrs D about her expenses to ensure the 
additional lending was affordable for her. 
I cannot say for certain what Mrs D would have told Tesco Bank about her expenses had 
she been asked. She has provided a copy of her credit report and bank statements and 
while I do not find that Tesco Bank was required to ask for Mrs D bank statements as I think 
further checks should have taken place I have used this information as an indication of what 
Tesco Bank would have found out had it asked Mrs D about her expenses at the time. 
While Mrs Ds credit report is a recent report it provides an insight into what would have 
been identified from credit checks undertaken and the time of the credit limit increase. 
Having considered the information, I do not find that this raises concerns that Mrs D was in 
financial difficulty at the time or that additional lending shouldnt have been provided. 
I have also looked at Mrs Ds bank statements to understand her expenses at the time. 
Having done so I do not find that had further questions been asked, Tesco Bank would have 
found the additional lending unaffordable. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman