DRN-4313232
The complaint
Mr L complained That Mattioli Woods Plc (Mattioli Woods) used an unfair voting system on a 
decision relating to a collective investment he held in a SIPP. This led to the decision taken 
being counter to the wishes of a majority of investors. He would like Mattioli Woods to move 
to a simple unweighted voting system and undertake a new ballot on the proposals.
What happened
Mr L has held a SIPP for a number of years. Mattioli Woods took over the management of 
this SIPP in 2012. This SIPP currently holds his share of a commercial rental property 
owned on a collective basis, with Mr L owning a share of the property representing c0.4% of 
its total value. The rest of the property is owned in varying proportions by other investors. 
Mattioli Woods manages the SIPP and administer a voting process by which the owners can 
make collective decisions about material issues relating to the fund. All members of the 
collective investment are bound by a majority decision on these occasions.
On 3 March 2020, Mattioli Woods informed all the members of the investment that the 
existing tenant of the property wished to remain in it after the expiry of its current lease. The 
tenant was open to either entering into a new long term lease on the property or acquiring 
the freehold of the property, with the capital value of the property to be returned to the 
investors.
Mattioli Woods gave the pertinent information about both options, including advice it had 
been given about the potential capital valuation of the property and the terms of the lease it 
was seeking from the existing tenant. It also gave information it had received about the likely 
level of income that could be achieved if a new tenant had to be found for the property, 
which was significantly below that which the existing tenant was paying.
It gave a deadline for members to indicate their preferred option (to sell the property or 
extend the lease). On 27 April 2020, investors were informed that a majority of investors had 
been in favour of retaining the property.
Mr L queried the result of the ballot, and as a result, Mattioli Woods reviewed the results 
once more. Its review found that Mr L was correct and that there was a majority in favour of 
selling the property and returning the capital raised to the investors. On 30 April 2020 it 
stated:
After reviewing the weighted average of the votes the outcome changes. The A investors 
own 52.22% of the syndicate while the B investors own 47.78%. The A investors sell votes 
of 70.51% transposes to 36.83% and the B investors sell votes of 33.57% transposes to 
13.74% which equates to 50.57% vote in favour to sell which is a majority, albeit marginal.
It also stated that it intended to continue negotiating a new lease with the tenant, as this was 
prudent in case a sale could not be achieved. 
Mattioli Woods provided a further update on 2 June 2021. Investors were updated with the 
latest position on both the prospective sale price and progress on the negotiations of a new 
long term lease. A further vote was taken on whether to proceed with the sale and a 
weighted majority of investors were again in favour of proceeding with this option.
On 15 September 2021 Mattioli Woods wrote again to the investors to advise them that the 
existing tenants no longer wished to proceed with the acquisition of the building but would 
instead like to enter into another long term lease agreement. Mattioli Woods informed the 
investors that it would continue to negotiate the lease terms as any future sale price could 
best be supported by retaining the existing tenants on a long term lease. These negotiations 
were concluded in November 2021, with the tenants agreeing a 25 year lease.
On 9 September 2022, Mattioli Woods again wrote to the investors with updated financial 
estimates for selling the property and asked for a further vote on whether to sell the freehold 
of the property or keep it so as to benefit from the new long term lease. On this occasion, the 
investors voted in favour of retaining the property. This result was communicated to the 
investors on 12 October 2022.
Mr L had been in favour of selling the property. He queried the result of the ballot and the 
manner in which the votes had been weighted to reflect the proportion of the property that 
each investor owned. He felt that the weighting was unfair, and that the vote should have 
been unweighted i.e. each investor received one vote regardless of the size of their 
investment and a simple majority be required for an option to be adopted. If this approach 
had been taken, the decision would have been taken to sell, rather than retain the property. 
Mattioli Woods issued a response to Mr Ls complaint on 30 November 2022. In it, it rejected 
his complaint. Mattioli Woods issued a final response letter and didnt uphold the complaint. 
It explained that the weighted voted system it used in conducting all the ballots had been 
established before it took over the administration of the scheme in 2012. 
It explained that the weighting used in voting was the same as used in allocating income to 
individual investors, so the higher the share of the asset any individual investor owned, the 
higher their vote would be weighted in any ballot.
It also explained that this method was used consistently across all the syndicates and 
Limited Liability Partnerships that Mattioli Woods manage on behalf of clients and had done 
so since 2012. 
Mr L was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence provided by both parties and reached a view that 
he would not be upholding Mr Ls complaint. They felt that Mattioli Woods had not acted 
unfairly in the way it conducted the ballot or weighted the votes, given that this was its 
established practice.
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold his complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed by this, so Ill explain my reasons.
Mr L has, in this complaint, put forward the view that weighting the votes of individual members according to the value of their investment is unfair to him. This is because in this 
instance, although a simple majority of investors indicated they were in favour of selling the 
property, once the weighting was applied, the view of a minority of investors to retain the 
property was held to take precedence.
Essentially, I have to make a decision on whether or not Mattioli Woods has treated Mr L 
unfairly, according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles for businesses, most 
pertinently 
Principle 6 (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly)
To test whether I think he has been treated fairly, I have to consider this in the context of 
whether the application of the voting system has been appropriately approved, and 
consistently applied. As our investigator noted, it is not the place for this service to decide 
whether the characteristics of the voting system are fair, as that is an argument that would 
need to be made in a court of law. I can, however, take a view on whether I believe the 
application of the voting system is unfair to Mr L.
Mattioli Woods took over management of Mr Ls investment, along with other collective 
investments in the summer of 2012. At that time, a decision was taken to continue with an 
already established voting system which applied weighting according to investment values. 
It has also provided copies of the relevant sections of the Operator Agreement for the 
investment that allows it to act in a way that:
in the operators opinion be reasonably required in connection with or ancillary to the 
establishment, operation or winding up of the Scheme. 
Although Mr L may wish to test this in a court of law, I find it reasonable to find that it has 
done nothing wrong in continuing the voting system that had already been established for 
the investment before it took over the management of the investment.
Mattioli Woods has also provided evidence to show that this voting mechanism applies to 
all the collective investments it manages. Given this, I find that the voting system has been 
consistently applied, and that Mattioli Woods has done nothing wrong in this regard either.
Consequently, it follows that I do not find that Mr L has been treated unfairly and do not 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman