DRN-2938961
The complaint
Ms J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for a 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Ms J took out a comprehensive single trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker. She paid £63.36 for the policy, which included optional travel disruption 
extension; gadget and terrorism cover. The core policy and travel disruption extension were 
underwritten by Great Lakes. The gadget cover was underwritten by an insurer Ill call Z and 
the terrorism cover was underwritten by an insurer Ill call E. The policy was intended to 
cover a trip Ms J was due to take between 12 and 20 April 2020.
Ms J got in touch with the broker on 16 March 2020 to look into cancelling the policy, as her 
holiday had been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She wanted Great Lakes to pay 
her a cash refund of her policy premium.
Great Lakes didnt agree to offer Ms J a cash refund of her premium. It offered her either the 
chance to move her single trip policy dates to within 18 months of the original purchase date. 
Or it offered her a pro-rata credit voucher for the remaining, unused portion of her policy, 
which would be valid for 36 months. It backdated the policy cancellation date to 16 March 
2020  the date Ms Js holiday was cancelled. It didnt include refunds for the add-on covers 
Ms J had taken out.
Ms J was unhappy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator considered whether Great Lakes had acted fairly. She set out the details of 
the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She 
also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 22 
February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Ms J a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 months and 
which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt think the terms 
of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Ms J a 
cash refund of her premium. 
But the investigator didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes not to include a pro-rata refund of 
premium Ms J paid for the travel disruption extension in its voucher offer. She also explained 
that the seller of Ms Js policy would pay her a cash refund of £2.71 for the terrorism cover 
and a cash refund of £8.99 for the gadget cover. She let Ms J know that if she was unhappy 
with the cash refunds for the gadget and terrorism add-on covers, shed need to complain 
separately to Z and E.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations. It said it would offer Ms J a pro-
rata credit voucher worth £30.10 representing the unused portion of her core policy and the 
travel disruption extension, following the backdated policy cancellation date of 16 March 
2020.
Ms J was unhappy with the refund offer Great Lakes had made. She said she didnt want the 
voucher and she didnt want anything to do with Great Lakes. If shed been able to go on the 
trip, she would have. Shed got the trip money back, so she felt she should get her premium 
back too. Shed tried to call the broker continually and hadnt been able to get through. When 
she did manage to speak to Great Lakes, it hadnt taken her extenuating circumstances into 
account. She told us she wanted cash, not a voucher.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that my decision will 
only consider the pro-rata refund Great Lakes has offered for the core policy and travel 
disruption extension. If Ms J is unhappy with the cash refund offers made by the policy seller 
for the gadget and terrorism add-ons, shell need to complain to Z and E. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms J, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. Ill 
explain why. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a refund. And as Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Ms Js cooling-off period ended on 7 March 2020. But Ms J didnt initially ask to 
cancel the policy until 16 March 2020, when her holiday was cancelled. So the cancellation 
was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes 
to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  
such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and 
conditions of Ms Js contract with Great Lakes entitle her to any refund of premiums. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to now provide Ms J with a credit 
voucher for the unused portion of both her core policy and travel disruption extension cover 
is fair and reasonable. Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 58-day period if the policy 
hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 35 days of cover, 
after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Ms J 
making a claim after that point. And having checked Great Lakes refund calculation, Im 
satisfied it was correct. 
In my view, a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I appreciate that Ms J doesnt want to use Great Lakes again. But she hasnt indicated 
that she doesnt intend to travel again. So while I appreciate travel plans are currently 
uncertain, given the voucher is valid for 36 months, I think its likely Ms J will be able to put 
the voucher towards another policy in the future. So I dont think that the terms of the 
voucher are overly restrictive.   
Overall, while I sympathise with Ms Js position, I think the offer of settlement Great Lakes 
has now offered is fair and reasonable. So Im not telling it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable. 
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to include a pro-rata refund of premium for the travel 
disruption extension in its credit voucher calculation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman