DRN-3849374
The complaint
Mr H complains about Assurant Direct Limited trading as Protect Your Bubble (ADL) and 
their decision to decline the claim he made on his insurance policy after two of his phones 
went missing.
What happened
On 11 November 2022, Mr H took out an insurance policy underwritten by ADL for two 
recently purchased mobile phones. On 21 November 2022, Mr H called ADL to make a claim 
on this policy as both phones had been lost.
Mr H initially claimed the phones hadnt been used and were in their original packaging in a 
cupboard the last time hed seen them before theyd become misplaced. But after 
questioning, Mr H explained the phones had been lost once before, around 1 November, but 
had been returned on the same day. And because of this, hed contacted his network 
provider about the phones to have them blacklisted, before asking the blacklisting to be 
removed.
ADL considered Mr Hs testimony and declined the claim, stating they didnt think they were 
able to confirm the phones were in Mr Hs possession when the policy was incepted. They 
explained the policy Mr H held contained an exclusion for any phones where usage couldnt 
be proven during the time the policy was active. So, they closed the claim and refunded Mr 
H the premium hed paid. Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr H was unhappy with ADLs decision to decline the claim. He provided an email from his 
network provider which supported his testimony that the phones had been lost and found on 
1 November and so, on this date the blacklisting had been removed till the phones were lost 
again on 21 November. Mr H felt this email showed the phones were in his possession and 
so, he thought the claim should be upheld.
ADL responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They thought theyd declined the claim 
fairly, in line with the terms of the policy, as Mr H had been unable to provide usage of the 
phones since the policy had been incepted. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think Mr H had 
provided ADL with satisfactory evidence that he had possession of the phones when the 
policy was incepted, or that the phones had been used since that date. So, they didnt think 
ADL acted unfairly when declining the claim.
Mr H didnt agree with this view. He disputed ADLs statement that one of the phones had 
been activated on 1 November, reaffirming the phones hadnt been taken out of the 
packaging. And he thought the email he provided from the network provider was evidence to 
show the phones were in his possession when the policy was incepted. Mr H also stated he 
called ADL before making the claim, and he was told the phones would be insured even if 
they were kept in a cupboard and not used. Finally, he wanted our service to consider how 
his mental health had affected him around the time he made the claims, which he felt 
explained why hed contacted his network provider and why they had declined to provide any 
further cover. Mr H has provided our service with medical documentation that outlines the 
mental health conditions he suffers with, and the impact this can have. As Mr H didnt agree 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I appreciate he took out 
the insurance policy with ADL to cover him financially if anything happened to the mobile 
phones he purchased. So, I can understand why hed be left feeling both upset and 
frustrated when ADL declined his claim after his mobile phones went missing. And I can 
understand why Mr H would feel ADL acted unfairly and wants them to pay him the cost of 
the declined claim.
But for me to say ADL should overturn their decision to decline the claim, or to pay Mr H the 
value of the mobile phones, Id first need to be satisfied that ADL did something wrong. So, 
Id need to see evidence that, when declining the claim, they failed to act within the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mr H held. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to see 
evidence that satisfies me ADL acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the evidence available to me. Its important to note its not my role to re-
underwrite the claim Mr H made. Instead, its my role to consider the actions ADL have taken 
and decide whether I think they acted fairly and reasonably.
And Im unable to say for certain exactly what happened to the phones, or whether Mr H did 
or did not have possession of them at the time of the claim. Nor am I able to say for certain 
whether Mr H was using the phones or not. So instead, when thinking about whether ADL 
have acted fairly, Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on 
the balance of probabilities.
ADL have declined the claim, stating they didnt believe Mr H was in possession of the 
phones at the time. So, they didnt think Mr H was able to evidence that the phones were 
being used after the policy was incepted.
Ive listened to the initial claims call Mr H made. And within this call, he explained the phones 
had been stored in a cupboard within their packaging and were intended to be given as a 
present later within the year. So, based on this, I dont think its likely the phones were being 
used.
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held, which states that If your 
gadget is a mobile phone we may ask for evidence or contact the network directly in order to 
verify that the mobile phone was being used after the start date of the policy. If we are 
unable to validate the mobile phone was being used then we may decline your claim. So, 
where usage after the policy inception cant be proven, I think ADL were able to decline the 
claim. Mr H has confirmed to our service that he is unable to prove usage of the phones, as his 
network provider wont provide him with written confirmation that they were being used. But I 
wouldnt expect his network provider to provide this information, as Mr H confirmed on the 
initial claims call that the phones had been stored in their packaging. While I recognise Mr H 
has provided an email from his network provider that confirms when the phones were 
blacklisted, and when this blacklisting was removed, I think this only confirms the phones 
ability to be used. I dont think this is evidence they actually were. If the phones were being 
used, Id expect Mr H to be able to obtain information such as call logs and data usage from 
the network provider. And I think the onus is on Mr H to ensure this is retrieved and supplied 
to ADL. If the network provider is refusing to provide this information, it would be an issue Mr 
H would need to pursue with the network provider directly. 
So, based on the above, I think ADL acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining the claim. And I think they were fair to refund the premiums Mr H paid, as the 
phones werent covered by the policy as they werent being used during this time.
But as I explained earlier within my decision, Ive also considered whether ADL acted fairly 
when declining the claim.
I recognise Mr H stated his belief he was told his phones would be insured on a call to ADL 
after the policy was incepted. Ive listened to this call, and Mr H does ask whether his 
phones would be insured if they werent being used. And ADL do reply, confirming Mr H had 
insurance for the phones. While I dont think the advice ADL gave was specific to Mr Hs 
situation, and was more a general confirmation that an insurance policy was in place, I do 
understand why Mr H would feel as though ADL provided him with incorrect information on 
this call. But crucially, I dont think this means ADL have acted unfairly in this situation.
Having listened to the initial claims call, I think its clear Mr H provided conflicting information 
regarding the phones. Initially, Mr H stated the phones had been placed into the cupboard 
from purchase. But shortly after, Mr H confirmed the phones had been lost once previously, 
but returned, and this is why hed contacted his network provider to blacklist them. Mr H also 
confirmed that his network provider had taken the decision to refuse any further claims, due 
to the number hed made previously. And I recognise its after this decision that Mr H turned 
to ADL to take out a separate insurance policy. 
I also note that from the time the policy was incepted, to the date the claim was made, Mr H 
called ADL on several occasions to confirm the claim process, the excess attributed to the 
policy and in what situations the devices would be insured. 
So, when this is considered against Mr Hs conflicting information regarding the phones and 
when they were first lost, I can understand why ADL would have reservations about not only 
the phone usage, but also the whereabouts and possession of the phones. And in this 
situation, I dont think I can say ADL have acted unfairly when deciding to decline the claim 
without clear evidence that Mr H had the phones in his possession, and that the phones 
were being used at the time they were lost. 
Nor do I think the information given to Mr H on one of the phone calls is enough to say ADL 
has done something wrong that should be compensated for, as Mr H himself also provided 
conflicting information and I have to take into account the impact this had on the claim 
process and the decision ADL reached. And because of this, I dont think I can say ADL 
need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr H Ive 
considered the medical evidence hes provided at length when reaching my decision. While I 
recognise his medical condition may have impacted the amount of times he contacted his network provider, and some of the information he provided to ADL, I dont think ADL were 
aware of this condition, and its impact, at the time they communicated with Mr H, and 
decided to decline the claim. And my decision must focus on the service ADL provided, and 
the decision they reached, based on the evidence and information that was available to them 
at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Assurant Direct 
Limited trading as Protect Your Bubble.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman