DRN-3305906
The complaint
C complains about the decision of HDI Global SE to decline it business interruption claim for 
losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the main events relating to this complaint. 
C is represented in this complaint, and the events have also included the involvement of 
other third parties. But for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to C and HDI.
C operates as a restaurant and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by HDI. In 
March 2020, C was forced to close as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and contacted 
HDI to claim for its losses. 
HDI declined the claim, saying it was not persuaded that C had demonstrated that there had 
been an occurrence of COVID-19 on its premises. HDI also did not think there was any 
cover in the circumstances of the claim from the other parts of the policy. 
Unhappy with this outcome, C ultimately brought its complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator was also not persuaded that the evidence C had provided had demonstrated 
that it was more likely than not that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 at the 
premises prior to them being closed. She did not think isolation notes, provided by 
NHS 111, were sufficient to show that the individuals in question most likely had COVID-19, 
especially in the absence of information regarding their symptoms. 
Our Investigator also did not think COVID-19 had caused damage as required by the 
policy, or that the restrictions imposed on C by the Government regulations introduced to 
control the spread of COVID-19 were due to defects in Cs sanitation. 
As C remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
C is represented in this complaint. Cs representative has submitted detailed arguments as 
to why it feels Cs claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted 
and pursued by Cs representative, in relation to the first two issues discussed below, are 
largely the same arguments that it has submitted on other complaints from other 
policyholders.
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that similar 
conclusions will be reached. Cs representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, a similar 
approach will be applied to this case. 
However, for the benefit of C, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
on these first two issues have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint. And also why the 
evidence provided has not persuaded me to uphold its complaint in relation to the third 
issue.
The three issues are essentially whether there is a claim relating to damage, to sanitation, 
and to disease at the premises. 
Before discussing these, I will just note that the correspondence on the complaint has 
included discussion on whether certain exclusions apply to the claim. But before it is 
necessary to consider whether an exclusion applies, it must be shown that the policy initially 
covers the circumstances. As I do not consider this to be the case, I have not discussed the 
exclusions in this decision.
Damage
The type of cover C is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy C took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Cs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by Damage. Damage is defined within the policy as: Direct 
physical loss destruction of or damage to the Property insured. A couple of the extensions 
do not require the Damage to occur to insured property, but still require it to occur to 
property. With all the relevant areas of cover, the Damage also needs to have been caused 
by one of the perils insured by the policy. And one of these perils is Accidental damage. 
Cs representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
Damage. And that such Damage does not need to be physical. It has argued that because 
the policy covers accidental damage, this means that, unless specifically excluded, any 
cause of Damage is covered and that this would include COVID-19 and its impact. It has 
said that this Damage does not need to be physical. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that loss, destruction, or 
damage as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. This is a word 
that is included in the definition of Damage in the policy. And I do not consider this definition 
to be unclear. The core business interruption cover also requires the relevant Damage to 
have occurred to property.
Cs representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
agree with the Investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would require 
either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Cs property, its suppliers property, or property within a mile of Cs 
premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of such property was 
required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I think HDI acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining Cs claim under the parts of the policy that required such 
damage. 
I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Cs premises (or the premises of their suppliers) would 
constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage as defined by the policy 
which has led to an interruption of Cs business. So, I dont think either the core business 
interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on there having been damage, provide cover in 
the circumstances of Cs claim. And I think HDI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting 
Cs claim under these areas of cover.
Sanitation 
One of the extensions to the business interruption section of Cs policy provides cover where 
there has been a closure of (or restrictions placed on) the insured premises. A number of 
reasons for such closure are listed as being covered by the policy. One of these is:
closure of the whole or pad of the Premises by order of the Public Authority 
consequent upon closure of the whole or pad of the Premises by order of the Public 
Authority consequent upon defects in the drains and other sanitation at the Premises
Cs representative has said that the premises were closed for sanitary reasons because it 
was not safe for the public to congregate in close proximity to one another. As such, it 
considers this subclause provides cover. 
Like our Investigator, it seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability 
to enforce social distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitation at Cs 
premises. 
In determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this case in terms 
of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Cs policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Cs complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Cs policy was entered in January 2020, a number of months before any restrictions were 
introduced in the UK in relation to COVID-19. And, whilst social distancing has been 
practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, it 
was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular 
wording of Cs policy in January 2020 would have considered this subclause to refer to an 
inability to enforce social distancing at Cs premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Cs representative considers the defect at Cs premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. C is a restaurant and no evidence has been provided to 
suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitation. Im not persuaded that the normal 
operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Cs 
premises which led to its closure. I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it 
was the circumstances at Cs premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. 
For these reasons, I consider HDIs decision to not to meet Cs claim under this section was 
fair and reasonable. 
Disease at the premises
Another of the subclauses relating to closure of the premises provides cover for:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
Notifiable Human Disease is defined in the policy, but is not disputed that this definition 
would include COVID-19. However, in order for a claim to be covered by this subclause it 
would firstly need to be shown that this disease (or another which then led to the closure or 
restrictions) had occurred at the insured premises. 
It is for C to demonstrate that it has a valid claim. So, in essence, it is for C to show that it is 
more likely than not that COVID-19 occurred at its premises prior to and leading to its 
closure. 
C has provided some evidence relating to a number of its employees. In addition to some 
records regarding their working times, this evidence is largely limited to isolation notes 
provided by the NHS. It seems these notes were provided following the employees in 
question contacting NHS 111. 
This does indicate these employees were likely suffering from some symptoms of illness to 
the degree that they thought it necessary to contact NHS 111. But it isnt clear what illness 
they had, if any. 
I am conscious of the fact that testing was not widely available at this point in time. But no 
details of the specific symptoms suffered have been provided. So, it isnt clear what exactly 
led the employees to be concerned. The symptoms have been described as mild 
symptoms and flu-like symptoms. So, whilst there may have been some concern that 
these were symptoms of COVID-19, they may also have been symptoms of another illness, 
such as flu. Ultimately, I am not satisfied that C has demonstrated that it is more likely than not that there 
was an occurrence of COVID-19, or any other disease, at its premises that then led to its 
closure. As such, I dont think HDI acted inappropriately in not meeting Cs claim under this 
area of cover.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Cs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for C and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman