DRN-3663049
The complaint
Mrs C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has failed to 
award her account points.
What happened
Mrs C says she wished to apply for an AESEL account offering 40,000 promotional points for 
those that hadnt held an account in the last two years. She says her husband called AESEL 
and it said she would be eligible. Mrs C says she applied for the account which was 
approved and made a second call to AESEL when its advisor said she was eligible for the 
points. She says AESEL then said she wasnt eligible but offered 5,000 points as an 
apology. Mrs C would like the full 40,000 points.
AESEL says Mrs C wasnt eligible for the points as she had an account closed in the 
previous two years. It says Mrs Cs husband called it on 4 October 2021 and says it was 
asked if Mrs C was eligible for the award if she didnt hold an account in the last two years. 
AESEL says it replied that she would be and that an account was later opened. It accepts it 
gave Mrs C incorrect information during a further telephone call after the account had been 
opened and has offered 5,000 points for the mistake. AESEL says the application makes 
clear that the points are not available if a previous account was held in the last two years.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs Cs account hadnt been accessed when the first call was made and that she 
held a previous account within the last two years so wasnt eligible for the points. The 
investigator thought AESELs offer appropriate for the incorrect information given and that it 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and says she followed AESELs advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I have looked carefully at AESELs records and am satisfied that Mrs Cs husband 
asked about her eligibility if she had not held an account in the last two years. Im also 
satisfied that AESEL gave correct information, that she would be eligible if she didnt hold a 
previous account in that two-year period. In any event I can see Mrs C applied for the 
account and accepted the account terms and conditions which make clear that the points are 
not available to those who held an AESEL account in the previous two years. So, I dont 
think AESEL made a mistake, misled Mrs C or acted unfairly by refusing to award her the 
40,000 points.
I appreciate Mrs C says she relied on AESELs advice, but I dont think it provided any 
advice and simply repeated what the terms and conditions were. I also think it likely that Mrs 
C knew that she held an account previously and I would have expected her to have asked 
AESEL to check when that account was closed or to have checked her own records.
There is no dispute that AESEL did provide incorrect information after the account was 
opened. I appreciate that isnt the main issue, but Im satisfied that AESEL has fairly 
accepted it gave incorrect information. I think the 5,000 points it awarded fair and reasonable 
and find by that stage the account had been opened.
Overall, Im satisfied that AESEL was entitled to conclude Mrs C wasnt eligible for the points 
and that she agreed to the account terms and conditions which made that eligibility clear. I 
dont think she was given misleading information before the account was opened and so 
cant fairly order AESEL to award her the additional points she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman