DRN-1770306
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
In January 1996 Mr S applied for a credit card from RBS. Mr S used a postal application 
form to apply for the credit card. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy. The PPI policy 
covered him against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In 
the event of a successful claim the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on 
the account for up to 12 months.
An adjudicator thought the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
RBS has been able to show us a copy of the original application form. I can see it has 
instructions to complete and send back to RBS. So it looks like the type of form that would 
either be sent to Mr S to be completed and posted back to RBS. So I think Mr S completed 
the form himself.
The form has a section about Cardholder Protection Plan which was RBS version of PPI. 
This section reads, I have read the major benefits of the Cardholder Protection Plan, I 
understand it could offer protection for repayment of my credit card account in the event of 
my being unable to work though unemployment, accident or illness and I would like to take 
advantage of it Sign here for cover.
I can see Mr S has signed and dated below this statement separately to signing the credit 
card application. So I am satisfied Mr S would know he had a choice about whether to take 
the cover or not and that he could have left the section blank and not taken the PPI.
Mr S has said he thought the PPI was an added benefit to the card and was not something 
hed be charged for separately. But RBS has shown us copies of Mr S credit card 
statements and I can see the PPI premiums are shown on the monthly statements as 
separate purchases and labelled, Cardholder Protection Plan. And the PPI remained on  
Mr S account for several years until September 2002 when it was cancelled. If it were something Mr S thought was not chargeable Id expect him to have questioned it at an early 
stage, but Ive not seen any evidence he did so.
Overall, I think its likely RBS made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out, although it would be understandable if Mr S has forgotten doing so after 
so many years.
Because Mr S completed the form himself, I dont think RBS made a personal 
recommendation to him. So it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible that RBS didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr S would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if he had been given better or clearer information. I 
cant say that he would have done. I say this for the following reasons:
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, he was eligible 
for the policy and had no existing health conditions that would not have been covered. So 
hed have been able to make a valid claim if hed have needed to.
It is likely Mr S employer would have paid him some sick pay if he couldnt work. But the PPI 
sold by RBS could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months in addition to any sick 
pay. So, the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Particularly if Mr 
S couldnt work for a lengthy spell.
And the PPI could have paid a monthly benefit if Mr S had lost his job.
Mr S had some savings at the time of the sale. Hes told us he was saving for a house 
deposit. So he could have used some of this to clear the credit card balance if needed. Ive 
thought about this but the PPI would mean he didnt have to use the savings hed earmarked 
for a house deposit to pay his credit card balance.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put him off taking out the cover.
In summary I think it is most likely the PPI was presented as optional and Mr S chose to take 
it out. And even if RBS had given Mr S all the clear information it should have, I think hed 
likely still have gone ahead and taken the PPI.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman