DRN-4474116
Complaint
Miss P complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with her. Shes said the payments to her agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
Miss P has made a separate complaint about the commission that MotoNovo paid the broker 
that arranged her finance. But that matter is being considered separately and so doesnt 
form part of this final decision.
In February 2019, MotoNovo provided Miss P with finance for a used car. The cash price of 
the vehicle was £6,990.00. Miss P paid a deposit of £1,210.83 and entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with MotoNovo to cover the remaining £5,779.17. The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £1,792.95 (comprising of interest of £1,434.95, an admin 
fee A of £199, an admin fee B of £149  and an option to purchase fee of £10), and the total 
amount to be repaid of £7,572.12 (not including Miss Ps deposit) was due to be repaid in 47 
monthly instalments of £185.72 and 1 final payment of £344.72. 
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
MotoNovo had done anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. 
Miss P disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ps complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
MotoNovo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that MotoNovo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss P could make him payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to him. 
And if the checks MotoNovo carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
MotoNovo says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss P. During this assessment, Miss P provided details of her monthly 
income. MotoNovo says it also carried out credit searches on Miss P which showed up some 
existing credit but that this was being relatively well maintained.  
Furthermore, MotoNovo says that Miss P would have enough left over to meet her regular 
living costs once her payments to her creditors was deducted from her income. On the other 
hand, Miss P says that she couldnt have afforded this.
Ive thought about what Miss P and MotoNovo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that MotoNovos searches show the use of at least one 
payday loan albeit some six months before this application. In any event, much like our 
investigator, I dont think that the checks MotoNovo carried out did go far enough. In my 
view, MotoNovo needed to take further steps to ascertain Miss Ps actual living costs, given 
what the credit search showed in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As MotoNovo didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think MotoNovo 
is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Miss P. Bearing 
in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would 
have expected MotoNovo to have had a reasonable understanding about Miss Ps regular 
living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what MotoNovo is likely to have done if it obtained 
the missing information I think it should have done here. I say this because this information 
provided does appear to show that when Miss Ps committed regular living expenses are 
deducted from her credit commitments, MotoNovo was more likely that not to have 
concluded that Miss P could sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Miss Ps actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information shes provided shows. I know that Miss P has referred to being a 
full-time student even though what shes provided suggests that she was receiving an 
income. In any event, MotoNovo wont have known this. All it could do was make a decision 
based on what it had, or is likely to have had, had it done proportionate checks.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that 
MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Miss P did have sufficient funds left over, once her 
regular living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was deducted from her 
monthly income, to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. As this is the case, 
Im not persuaded that MotoNovo doing more checks here would have resulted in a different 
outcome.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that MotoNovos 
checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Miss P did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
MotoNovo from providing these funds, or entering into this hire-purchase agreement with 
her.
 Ive also thought about what Miss P has said about not recalling an appropriate notification 
being displayed when she electronically signed her agreement. The first thing for me to say 
is that everything Ive seen suggests that Miss P purchased her vehicle at a dealership.  
Secondly, even if this isnt the case, Miss P not recalling a notification, particularly in 
circumstances where the vehicle being purchased was likely to be the primary focus of her 
attention, does not in itself mean that one wasnt provided. 
Finally, and most importantly, I have to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. Miss P was purchasing a vehicle and there is no dispute that she 
signed the finance agreement. Miss P obtained a vehicle and made the payments each 
month until the agreement was settled early in September 2022. 
It therefore seems to me that Miss P was aware she had an obligation to pay  her actions in 
making the payments she did clearly show this to be the case  and as this is the case, I 
dont think whats been said about notifications means that I should uphold this complaint or 
award compensation here. 
Im therefore satisfied that MotoNovo didnt act unfairly towards Miss P when it agreed to 
provide the funds and Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss P. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman