DRN-2189342
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Universal Transaction Processing Limited (UTPL) mis-sold a terminal 
hire and payment processing agreement for her business.
What happened
Mrs W says that a representative of UTPL cold called her business and discussed her 
switching her existing arrangements for taking card payments. She says he told her that she 
would save money. When he returned, she was distracted with a customer and did not read 
the documentation before signing. She did not receive a copy until after the card terminal 
had been installed. When she did, she realised that this would cost her more and that she 
was tied into the agreement for 48 months. Mrs W also says she was not given the 
opportunity to cancel the agreement and pay a cancellation fee of £195. She has not used 
the terminal but has now been told that because the agreement is terminated, she owes 
£1,422.72 and this has been assigned to a debt collection company.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
- Mrs W had signed the agreement on 10 May 2019, and this involved the hire of a 
payment terminal for 48 months at a cost of £32.40 per month. She had signed the 
documentation in multiple places and the key details were clear.
- The commercial terms section stated that she could cancel the agreement before the 
terminal was delivered for a cost of £195. So, she would have reasonably known this.
- There was a difference in terms of Mrs Ws recollection and that of the sales 
representative. But the onus was on Mrs W to read and agree to the terms of the 
agreement.
- The sales representative said that Mrs W would have been left with a carbon copy of 
the commercial terms section. She would not have received the full terms as this had 
been completed by paper.
- UTPL had told Mrs W about the consequences of not making payments. And it had 
said that the minimum billing with the payment processing company would be 
reduced. It had also said it would accept £1,000 in settlement of the agreement if the 
terminal is returned in good condition and with all the parts.
Mrs W did not agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
there was no reason for her to switch to this contract. She was not paying anything for her 
existing terminal. The email with the documentation came after the terminal had been 
installed. She was misled into signing the agreement and not given the opportunity to cancel. 
She offered to pay £195 to cancel it now.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 August 2020. I set out below what I 
said.
I understood why UTPL says that Mrs W should be held to an agreement that she freely 
signed for her business. And that the agreement made the terms clear. I thought that there 
are some important factors here though:
- Id looked at the statement from the sales representative. He says that as her 
transaction usage was low, she was unlikely to save money on processing fees 
except that he could reduce the minimum monthly from £20 to £10. He told Mrs W 
that from experience her terminal hire costs would be about £25 to £26 and that she 
said she wasnt sure. He said that he told her she needed to check this and that she 
was happy to switch until she realised she was not paying for her current terminal. 
He concludes had I known she was getting a free terminal I would have told her not 
to switch.
- There has been some dispute over what documentation Mrs W was left with. Had 
she signed the agreement electronically she would as I understood it have been sent 
the documents by email straightaway. Here she did not get them until three days 
after the terminal was installed  even though the letter itself was dated 19 May 2019 
it was emailed on 5 June 2019. UTPL says that it is not sent until the agreement is 
finalised.
- Mrs W says she was distracted when the sales representative called and that he 
filled in all the documentation and pointed to where she should sign. She said she 
trusted him.
- Mrs W says she did not get the commercial terms page carbon copy. That did not 
say what the monthly rental was as I understood it. But it did say that the agreement 
was for four years and that it could be cancelled until the date of terminal installation. 
It also said that she would be sent a copy of the terms and conditions by email.
- As soon as Mrs W did receive the documentation she tried to cancel and then 
complained.
Having considered the evidence available I was satisfied Mrs W was most likely told by the 
sales representative that she could save money. While he might have said that was subject 
to the existing agreement, he never established that had been checked or even if there were 
cancellation fees relating to that. To say that this was her error when she never made any 
positive statement about that I didnt think was reasonable here. I was also satisfied that  
Mrs W was distracted when she signed the forms and that ought to have been apparent to 
the sales representative. Thats not an excuse for her and I thought that the length of the 
agreement was for example reasonably brought to her attention. She may well have been 
aware she could cancel but I was not persuaded she had the information she needed to 
make that decision. I didnt think that the fact UTPL chose to process this agreement by 
paper which led to a relative delay in her getting the full agreement is something that should 
act to her disadvantage. It must fairly be the case that for a voluntary cancellation option to 
be meaningful she ought to be in possession of the relevant information. I didnt find on 
balance that she was.
Against that Mrs W is operating a business and could simply have not signed the documents 
until she was able to read them in full. Generally, I said I would think that a reasonable 
expectation. But here I considered as Ive set out there were a number of specific factors 
which I thought when taken in combination mean that holding her responsible for the 
termination costs  or even a large part of them for this agreement is not fair and 
reasonable. Had she had the opportunity to do so I was satisfied she would have cancelled 
the agreement and paid the £195 fee and returned the equipment.
I said that I intended to uphold this complaint and require UTPL to cancel all parts of the 
agreement and remove any liability for payments upon Mrs W paying it a cancellation fee of 
£195 and returning all the equipment and parts. It should also remove any adverse 
information it has reported about her to credit reference agencies.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W said that she agreed with my provisional decision and wanted to know how to make 
the payment and where to return the equipment.
UTPL said it was disappointed with the provisional decision but was prepared to agree to my 
resolution subject to the card machine being returned in an unused condition and if Mrs W 
removes any adverse comments made on social media regarding this matter. 
Putting things right
I appreciate the comments received and have thought about them. I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. I think stating that the equipment in 
returned in good condition will suffice as I dont want there to be a dispute about whether 
Mrs W having possibly looked at the equipment and had it installed tried to use it before this 
issue arose. 
I have not seen any of the comments that it is alleged Mrs W posted on social media about 
this complaint. And even if I had I could not reasonably bind her to remove those as part of 
our informal dispute resolution service. She will now have seen what UTPL has said and 
understand its concern and I merely encourage her to think about this now this matter is 
settled as she wanted.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Universal Transaction Processing 
Limited to:
1) Cancel all parts of the agreement and remove any liability for payments upon Mrs W 
paying it a cancellation fee of £195 and returning all the equipment and parts in good 
condition. It should provide Mrs W with clear instructions about how to do this within 
14 days of my decision.
2) Remove any adverse information it has reported about her to credit reference 
agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman