DRN-4115793
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) avoided her contents policy and refused to pay her 
claim. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a contents policy with QIC initially through a price comparison website and 
finalised the application over the phone in June 2021. The policy was renewed in June 2022. 
In December 2022 there was a burglary at Mrs Ms home where jewellery and cash were 
stolen. Mrs M reported the incident to the police and also contacted QIC to lodge a claim.
When considering the claim, QIC said Mrs M had answered a question it asked about 
whether she or any of the residents had been served with a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
incorrectly. A validation check carried out after the claim was lodged indicated a CCJ had 
been recorded against the other resident of Mrs Ms home. QIC considered this to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to void the policy. It accepted the 
misrepresentation was a careless one, rather than deliberate or reckless, so refunded the 
premiums Mrs M had paid.  
Mrs M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation but didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. The investigator said QIC was entitled to avoid Mrs Ms policy, and that it had 
acted fairly by returning the premium Mrs M paid.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mrs M 
thinks QIC didnt need to have voided the policy and could have exercised its discretion to 
consider her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC says Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered the question about whether anyone living at the property had a CCJ issued. QIC 
said given the amount of correspondence involved with issuing a CCJ, it thinks it more likely 
than not that Mrs M would have been aware of some of the correspondence sent to another 
resident at her address. 
Ive looked at the question asked by when Mrs M took out the policy. It says:
Have you or anyone living in the property been declared bankrupt or had a Country 
Court Judgement
On the policy documents, its recorded there are two individuals who live at the property. I 
appreciate Mrs M says she wasnt aware of the CCJ registered against the other resident. 
Ive considered what QIC says about the process for registering a CCJ, in that it does 
usually involve a considerable amount of correspondence. And the timing here is relevant, 
with the CCJ registered in April 2021 and the policy taken out in June 2021. On balance, I 
find myself more persuaded by QICs view that given the amount of correspondence 
involved with a CCJ and the short timeframe between it being registered and the policy 
taken out, its more likely than not Mrs M ought to have aware it had been registered. It 
follows, Im not minded to conclude Mrs M took reasonable care when answering the above 
question, and Im persuaded a misrepresentation occurred. 
I now need to decide whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. As in, had the 
correct information been given, would it have made a difference to whether QIC would have 
offered the policy to Mrs M. Ive considered the underwriting criteria and Im satisfied had the 
CCJ been disclosed, the policy wouldnt have been offered.  Im persuaded the evidence 
shows Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
QIC said Mrs Ms misrepresentation was careless. It doesnt believe she intentionally 
withheld the information, only saying she ought to have been aware of the CCJ. Im satisfied 
this was fair, as Im not persuaded QIC demonstrated  or sought to demonstrate  Mrs M 
intentionally withheld this information. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA. Given the underwriting criteria is clear the 
policy wouldnt have been offered, the action available to QIC was to avoid the policy, refuse 
the claim and return the premiums. QIC has already taken these steps, so Im not inclined to 
require it to take any further steps to put things right. 
I understand Mrs M considers QIC could have chosen not to avoid her policy, based on the 
terms and conditions. Here shes relying on the policy term that QIC has discretion as to how 
it deals with claims. This may well be the case however, given the findings Ive set out, Im 
satisfied QIC hasnt acted unfairly in voiding Mrs Ms policy, as it was entitled to do so. 
While Im conscious my decision wont be the outcome Mrs M is hoping for, Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint or require QIC to take any further action in respect of the claim    
Mrs M made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman