DRN-3321219
The complaint
Mr M complains AcitveQuote Limited mis-sold him two income protection policies. 
What happened
Mr M works in banking. In 2019, he took out two income protection policies under the advice 
of ActiveQuote. Hed said he wanted protection in the event he was made redundant. 
In 2021, after speaking with the insurer of one of his policies, Mr M said he became aware 
he wouldnt be covered in the event of a claim. He said the insurer had told him this was 
because he was not a permanent UK resident. Unhappy to find out that his policies may not 
work in the way he expected, Mr M complained to ActiveQuote. 
ActiveQuote said it had reviewed what happened when Mr M took out his policies, and said 
he had confirmed he was a permanent UK resident. It said Mr M had told its adviser that he 
was not a UK citizen, but had confirmed he had a national insurance number and was 
eligible for job seekers allowance. And it said as it had been unaware Mr M was on a tier 
two working visa, and as he hadnt disclosed this, it didnt think itd done anything wrong in 
terms of the policies it had recommended. 
Unhappy with ActiveQuotes response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think the policies had 
been mis-sold. 
ActiveQuote made no further comments on the investigators view. However Mr M disagreed 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as ActiveQuote provided advice it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policies were suitable for Mr M when it sold them to him. 
This means it had a duty to consider Mr Ms individuals needs and circumstances, and 
based on this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for him. 
Active Quote also needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this case, I dont think ActiveQuote has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. And I say this for the following reasons. 
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen and call recordings provided, that 
ActiveQuote was unaware Mr M was not a permanent resident of the UK. During the 
quotation process, Mr M was specifically asked to confirm that he permanently resides 
and works in the UK, Channel Islands and Isle of Man and he confirmed that he did. 
However Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M told ActiveQuote that he was working in 
the UK based on a tier two working visa. And I think that was crucial information which 
Mr M needed to divulge to Active Quote when he was asked about whether or not he 
permanently resided and worked in the UK. 
Mr M has raised some queries around the definition of permanent residency, and has 
said ActiveQuote should have asked further questions, such as whether he held 
indefinite leave to remain status. However I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to expect ActiveQuote to have gone on to ask such further questions, after Mr M had 
confirmed he permanently resided and worked in the UK. 
As Ive said, Mr M was working in the UK based on a tier two visa, which I understand is 
generally valid for five years before requiring an extension. Or, at the end of five years, it 
is possible to apply for indefinite leave to remain. 
I think ActiveQuotes question about permanent residency in the UK was clear. And 
considering Mr M did not hold indefinite leave to remain status, and was working in the 
UK based on a visa, I think he should have answered no to this question. Or at the least 
I think it would have been reasonable to expect Mr M to have told ActiveQuote at this 
point, about his working visa status. 
Following the sale of the policies, Mr M was sent the policy documentation including the 
full terms and conditions and a summary of each policy. Both summaries indicate clearly 
that it was a policy requirement to be a permanent resident of the UK. And this was also 
covered in the full terms and conditions. So Im satisfied there was a further opportunity 
for Mr M to identify that the policies may have been unsuitable for his circumstances, and 
to have notified ActiveQuote of this. And had he done this within the cooling off period, 
he would have been entitled to a full refund of any premiums paid. 
Ive also considered the questions Mr M asked ActiveQuote during his calls regarding 
citizenship. He advised he was not a UK citizen and asked how this would affect the 
policy. ActiveQuotes adviser said there wouldnt be a problem providing Mr M had a 
national insurance number and was entitled to job seekers allowance. 
Mr M has raised concerns around this exchange, and has said he should have been 
asked further questions about residency. However I dont think ActiveQuote needed to 
do this. The question Mr M asked about his citizenship was answered. And citizenship is 
not the same as residency  its possible to be a permanent UK resident with indefinite 
leave to remain, without holding UK citizenship. So I think it would be unfair for me to say 
Mr Ms question should have led ActiveQuote to ask further questions about his 
residency in the UK at that time. And as Ive said, when ActiveQuote later asked Mr M if 
he permanently worked and resided in the UK, he said that he did. 
As Ive explained above, Ive not found that either of the policies recommended by 
ActiveQuote were mis-sold, so I wont be asking it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against ActiveQuote Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman