DRN-3534487
The complaint
Mr R complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car following 
his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Rs car was damaged, Acromas decided that it was uneconomical to repair. They 
offered him £10,090 for his cars market value, less his policy excess. Mr R thought that it 
was worth much more, but Acromas thought that was fair as it was in line with motor trade 
guides. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Acromas offer was fair and that theyd reached it in a reasonable way having followed our 
guidance. Mr R didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
Mr R had another complaint about Acromas arising from the same matter, but I note that has 
been resolved and so I dont mention it here. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In his complaint Mr R has made a number of detailed points. I've considered everything hes 
said carefully, but in this decision, Ill focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
points. I also dont intend to comment on what other organisations may say about an 
insurers obligations, or on insurers business practices generally. This is because, as the 
investigator has explained, its not our role to regulate or monitor businesses, or to ask them 
to change their policy or procedures. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead we look at individual complaints and decide whether a business has 
acted fairly and reasonably.  
Mr Rs car insurance policy says on page 9 that market value is:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, 
age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage you 
are claiming for.
The investigator explained to Mr R what our approach was, regarding complaints about car 
valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether or not the 
insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the 
trade guides. The prices in the those guides are linked to likely monthly nationwide sales 
figures and although valuing a car is not an exact science, we believe they give a reasonable 
and independent guide and take account of a number of factors including mileage, condition, 
and any extra features. Overall, we find them more persuasive than adverts. 
I see that in assessing Mr Rs cars market value, Acromas used the valuations from two 
trade guides, and offered him the higher of the two valuations, £10,090, minus the excess. 
The investigator checked that Acromas had valued Mr Rs car in accordance with our 
guidance, taking into account its model, additional features, and the actual mileage at the 
time of the cars loss. 
The investigator again checked those two guides and one other. Their values were £10,040, 
£9,625, and £11,468. He said that the average of those was £10,378, and also rightly said 
that we would still see Acromas valuation as being within a reasonable range. I see that 
Acromas have therefore followed our established process with regard to assessing market 
value and I think thats fair. 
 
Mr R felt his car was worth more than Acromas had offered. He said as follows. Acromas 
valuation was unrealistic and bore no resemblance to what he would have to pay to replace 
his car in the marketplace. It was rare with a high specification, a low mileage, and was in 
pristine condition. It had a full service history and an accessory that he thought should make 
it more valuable. Acromas had relied on book values from insurance companies and had 
ignored adverts showing what his car was worth. The Financial Ombudsman Service should 
show him a replacement car he could buy with what Acromas had offered and should check 
the actual selling price of cars in his adverts then adjust them for his car.
The investigator explained that its not our role to find cars or analyse car sales prices.  And 
as I explained above, the guides Acromas used are independent industry trade guides and 
we consider it reasonable for insurers to use them. Acromas have shown that they took into 
account his cars make and model, specification, condition, features and mileage, and the 
investigator also did their own check on the car in the guides. We dont think that 
accessories necessarily add any value to a car because their desirability is subjective. 
Mr R thought that Acromas had ignored the adverts he gave them, and online sales price 
research. But I can see that Acromas did consider that. However Acromas said that they 
were insufficient like for like examples for comparison, so they placed more reliance on the 
guides. The investigator looked at Mr Rs adverts and considered that they were 
insufficiently similar to his car in model, features, age and mileage such that it would be 
difficult and inaccurate to value his car by comparison with them, and they didnt suggest 
that the guides might be wrong. Having reviewed the investigators analysis, I agree with 
that. 
 
In any event, we still think that advertised prices allow for subjective profit and room for 
negotiation, and dont determine what a car actually sold for. Whereas the guides valuations 
are based on extensive nationwide research of what likely selling prices would have been. 
Mr R thinks that the used car market had changed due to the growth of internet car sales 
and this meant that cars would often sell at no reduction, without negotiation. We think that 
the guides have factored in market-related increases in second-hand car sales in the last 
few years, but I havent seen anything to persuade me that using the internet as an 
advertising medium would affect sales prices. 
Taking all of the above into account, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to override the 
trade guide valuation assessment that Acromas did. 
Im satisfied that they used a fair and established process to assess Mr Rs cars market 
value and the amount they offered him was fair. So I dont think that Acromas did anything 
wrong and I dont require them to do anything more.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
