DRN-2939395
The complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) has unfairly 
charged him for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr J acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from VFS. 
The total payable under the agreement was £16,162.14. Mr J was required to make 45 
monthly payments of £184.86 and there was a final optional payment of £6,333.44 if he 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr J had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, VFS would be entitled to the return of the car and at 
least half of the total repayable under the agreement - £8,081.07.
Mr J asked to terminate the agreement in January 2021  41 months into the 46 month 
agreement. He returned the car, but he says that shortly afterwards, VFS told him hed need 
to pay £5,654.81 in refurbishment charges and excess mileage charges because hed 
exceeded the mileage allowance by 56,245 miles.
Mr J complained to VFS about the charges and it reviewed the refurbishment charges and 
agreed to reduce these to £156.11  which Mr J was satisfied with. But VFS said the excess 
mileage charge was correct.
The agreement set out that Mr J had an annual mileage allowance of 5,000 miles (on top of 
the 35,661 miles that had already accrued before he acquired it) with a maximum total 
mileage of 54,827. It said that if he exceeded this allowance VFS could charge him 
8.4 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he 
terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the 
car was on hire.
Mr J didnt agree £4,724.53 was a fair charge. He says this part of the hire purchase 
agreement wasnt explained to him.
VFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Mr J signed in August 2017. And it said the agreement clearly set out that 
in the event of voluntary termination, the total mileage allowance would be pro-rated if the 
agreement ends early. VFS said that it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that 
its charge was an accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained he was satisfied that VFS had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in 
line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of 
an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
Mr J disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says its not legal and he cant 
be made to pay it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Mr J took out a hire purchase agreement with VFS and exercised his right to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply 
hand back the car without having to pay anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst 
other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, whether there are any arrears to be 
paid, the condition of the car, and whether any excess mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr J accepts that he was required to pay the revised refurbishment charges but 
its the excess mileage charges that he disputes.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination; S99 of the CCA sets out the right for 
a consumer to terminate a hire purchase agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities 
a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of the 
agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under the hire 
purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable as 
compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for breaches of the 
agreement are in addition to any liability for termination. And S99 sets out that any liabilities 
that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage charges will accrue with 
each mile covered by the VehicleYou must discharge that liability by paying us the charge 
on demand. The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards 
the total price of the agreement. Mr Js accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £4,724.53.
Mr J says that it wasnt clear how the excess mileage charges would be calculated if he 
asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement early  so Ive looked very carefully at the hire 
purchase agreement he signed in August 2017.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage would be 
charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. The first page of Mr Js hire 
purchase agreement has a section headed: Payment. This section sets out the mileage 
allowance and what charges will apply if that mileage is exceeded.
Section 11, headed Mileage says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage 
allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire. And it made it clear that this charge 
would be payable on voluntary termination of the agreement if the pro-rated mileage 
allowance had been exceeded  if this agreement terminates early, we will reduce the 
Maximum Total Mileage in the proportion which the actual period of hire bears to the period 
of hire originally agreed. Any Excess Mileage Charge will be recalculated using that reduced 
Maximum Total Mileage.The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which VFS were required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Mr J has paid at least half the total amount payable under 
the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts 
with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr J.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr J is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Finally, Ive looked carefully at how VFS has calculated the excess mileage charge.
The hire purchase agreement states that the maximum annual mileage is 5,000 miles 
(which is 416.66 miles per month). Mr Js agreement was set up for 46 months, so he 
couldve driven no more than 19,167 miles if the agreement ran to term.
Mr J voluntarily terminated his contract early, so his mileage allowance was reduced 
on a pro-rated basis  so under the contract, he was able to drive only 17,109 miles.
The documented initial mileage was 35,661. And the end of contract mileage 
recorded by VFS was 109,015. So, the actual mileage driven by Mr J was 73,354  
which was 56,245 miles more than permitted under the agreement.
The agreement states that an excess mileage charge is payable at a rate of 8.4p per 
mile, resulting in a total charge to Mr J of £4,724.58 for excess mileage (56,245 
excess miles X 8.4p).
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the excess mileage charge has been 
calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions and that the charge has not been 
applied unfairly.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman