DRN-1179664
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs M the policy when they took out a loan in 1999. Although the 
loan was taken in Mr and Mrs Ms joint names the policy covered Mr M only. The policy 
covered Mr M if he lost his job for up to 12 months or was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness until the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
paperwork they wouldve seen presented the PPI as optional and thought the PPI wouldve 
been of benefit to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They say they didnt need the policy and it wasnt made clear it was 
optional.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Nationwide needed to make it clear the PPI was optional. The loan was applied for through 
the post. Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms application form and on it I can see that there is 
a separate section that deals with PPI. Within the section it gives to option to select yes or 
no to take PPI with a space to sign to confirm the selection. I can on Mr and Mrs Ms 
application that PPI has been selected with a tick in the yes box and Mr M has signed just 
below this.  
Ive also seen sample a copy of the credit agreement Mr and Mrs Ms wouldve signed to get 
the loan. I can see it wouldve set out the cost of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance 
with and without interest, separately. 
So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the PPI because 
they were given the choice to select or decline it on the loan application form and it was 
described as optional on the credit agreement. And I think Mr and Mrs M had PPI because 
they chose to take it because they wanted the cover. Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take the policy. What this means is that it didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs M, it just gave them information about PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr and Mrs M 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
From what I can see on the sample credit agreement I think the cost of the PPI was clear, 
but I dont know if the other information given was good enough. But in saying that I dont 
think this wouldve made a difference because I still think Mr and Mrs M wouldve taken out 
the policy because at the time they took out the loan:
 
From the information I have, theres nothing to suggest Mr M wasnt eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Although Mr M says he had some sick pay and savings he could use if he was 
unable to work, I think the PPI still provided them with a useful benefit. A successful 
claim wouldve paid out in addition to any cover and savings they had in place and for 
potentially longer as well as filling any gaps in Mr Ms work benefits such as if he was 
made redundant. 
 
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable and they wouldnt have lost out 
if they paid their loan back early as they wouldve received a pro-rata refund of the 
policy cost.  
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to
Mr and Mrs M. I think they wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited their needs and was 
of value to them. 
 
And because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs M are any worse off as a result of any wrong 
doing by Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman