DRN-3287199
The complaint
Mrs J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not fairly compensate her 
after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her. 
What happened
It looks as though Mrs J may have complained to RBS about the PPI back in 2012. RBS 
appears to have agreed it mis-sold PPI to Mrs J and it refunded her some money at that 
time. 
Somewhat out of the blue, RBS wrote to Mrs J on 5 February 2021. It said that it had 
reviewed her PPI complaint and it thought she was due some additional compensation. It 
offered to pay her a further £3,605.11. Mrs J was invited to complete an acceptance form, 
and she was told that RBS would arrange payment when it got that form back from her. 
Despite Mrs J chasing RBS, no payment was made. She then complained to this service. 
RBS told our adjudicator that it made a mistake when it made its offer of £3,605.11 to Mrs J. 
It said when it wrote to her in February 2021, it thought it had paid Mrs J a lot less than it had 
in 2012. RBS said there was a small amount of £16.77 now due to Mrs J and it was going to 
arrange to pay her that money. RBS said it was sorry for any inconvenience and confusion 
caused to Mrs J. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this but didnt think RBS had to honour the offer it made to 
Mrs J on 5 February 2021. Mrs J didnt agree with that view and so the matter was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold to Mrs J. So, I dont need to consider the 
circumstances around the sale. I have to look at whether Mrs J has been fairly compensated 
for that mis-sale. 
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, but Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Ive explained my reasoning below. 
Did RBS fairly calculate compensation? 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether RBS fairly worked out how much compensation it 
owed Mrs J.
When calculating how much Mrs J should be compensated, Id expect RBS to refund what 
she paid for PPI, along with any additional interest or charges she paid. And Id also expect it 
to pay 8% interest to compensate her for the time she was out of pocket because of the PPI. 
RBS provided us with its calculations. I can see it has undertaken the steps I have outlined 
above. I can see that it identified it had underpaid Mrs J by £16.10 and that it will be making 
payment of that amount to her. I am satisfied that it did make a mistake when it offered to 
refund a further £3,605.11, and that RBS did not actually owe Mrs J that money. 
Does RBS need to honour its offer of 5 February 2021?
I said above that RBS had fairly calculated the PPI compensation, and that its offer of 5 
February 2021 was an error.  
I can see why Mrs J keenly feels that RBS should pay her the extra money it offered her in 
February 2021. But as I said above, the purpose of calculating compensation in cases like 
this is to put Mrs J back into the position she would have been in if PPI had never been sold 
to her at all. So if I tell RBS to pay the £3,605.11 that was set out in its most recent letter, 
she wouldnt be in the same position  she would have received considerably more than she 
paid and was out of pocket. I cant reasonably say that would be fair in these circumstances. 
I do appreciate Mrs Js undoubted frustration and can see why she feels aggrieved at 
thinking she was going to receive a substantial sum from RBS that she didnt get. But Im 
afraid that for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman