DRN-3764862
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company.
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr T was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the
security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In September 2017, following an 
introduction from another financial advice firm, Mr T met with IFM. It completed a financial 
planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr T was aged 50; he was working full-
time; he was married and had two dependent children; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage of around £37,000 which was offset with savings of the same amount; 
and he had investment income from ISAs of around £1,000 a year. IFM also carried out an
assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced.
On 20 September 2017, IFM advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds within a managed portfolio of investments which was 
deemed to be of a cautious approach to risk according to the providers fund factsheet. In 
summary the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide 
Mr T with flexibility and control over taking his retirement benefits and to enable Mr T to retire 
when he wanted to and not take the risk of having restrictions in doing so when the scheme 
entered the PPF or became the new BSPS.
In October 2017 members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr T accepted the recommendation and in November 2017 around £456,000 (after IFMs fee 
was deducted) was received into the new personal pension. I note Mr T signed and returned 
the suitability report in December 2017 after the transfer had completed.
Mr T complained to IFM in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice because hed 
received a letter from the regulator, which said he might have received unsuitable advice to 
transfer out of the BSPS.
IFM didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary it said the transfer advice was suitable. It 
said this was because:
Sufficient information was gathered about Mr Ts general attitudes, beliefs,
opinions, feelings in respect of his circumstances and his goals.
Mr Ts objectives pointed towards a transfer.
Mr T was 50 and looking to retire at age 55 but he felt age 60 was more realistic. 
Mr T was debt free and wished to secure death benefits for his family.
Mr T wanted to access the tax-free cash element early and he wanted flexibility and 
control rather than being limited by scheme rules or those of the PPF.
Mr T had the attitude to risk and capacity for loss to transfer and make the 
investments at the required level.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
IFM to pay compensation. In summary they said IFMs transfer analysis showed that the 
growth rate required to match Mr Ts existing scheme benefits at age 65 wasnt likely to be 
achievable. They said no analysis was carried out based on Mr T saying he wanted to retire 
at 55 or perhaps age 60. And they said IFM shouldve waited for the BSPS2 details to carry 
out a meaningful comparison of benefits. They said there was nothing to suggest Mr T 
needed flexibility  he wasnt certain when he would retire. They said any concerns Mr T had 
about his employer ought to have been addressed and appropriately managed. They said 
overall there wasnt sufficient justification for transferring. They said had suitable advice 
been given Mr T wouldve remained in the BSPS and then chosen to move to the BSPS2.
IFM accepted the investigators assessment and it said it was willing to offer compensation. 
IFM then sent Mr T an offer of redress, which it said had been carried out in line with 
regulatory guidance.
Mr T said he didnt agree with the calculations made and challenged some of the 
assumptions around future adviser charges and the date the loss calculation was carried 
out.
While IFM maintained the loss calculation was carried out correctly and said Mr T had 
misunderstood the FCA guidance around the assumptions made in the calculation, it agreed 
to run the calculation again and provide a new offer of redress.
The investigator wasnt happy with the time it was taking IFM to produce the revised offer, so 
it said it was referring the complaint for an ombudsmans decision.
Because IFM said that in light of the ombudsman referral it would not reinstate its offer or 
prepare a revised loss calculation, it falls to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
IFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing scheme 
benefits under the BSPS. But at the time of the written advice, the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) was approved by the Pensions Regulator (under pensions law, a RAA 
is a restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself 
from its liabilities in respect of a DB pension scheme.) As a result, scheme members would 
have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme 
and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr T. 
I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the announcement and knowing that Mr T would 
be receiving his Time to Choose information in October 2017, IFM shouldve waited for the 
details of the new scheme and based the analysis and its advice on the BSPS2 instead. 
That way Mr T wouldve had all the relevant information to make a properly informed 
decision.
I accept that BSPS2 was far from being a certainty at the time of the advice. But the RAA 
had been formally approved and in my view all of the available information form the scheme 
trustees indicated that the new scheme would go ahead. So I still think IFM shouldve waited and taken the benefits available to Mr T through the new BSPS2 into account in formulating 
its advice, so that he was able to make a properly informed decision.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr T was 50 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he ideally wanted to retire at 55, 
but 60 was more realistic. For some reason IFM didnt base its analysis on the retirement 
ages Mr T indicated were relevant to him  it was only based on the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits under the existing 
BSPS at age 65 was 6.8% (I assume based on him taking a full pension.) No figure was 
produced based on Mr T taking a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4% per year  again I 
assume based on taking a full pension.
Despite the figure of 6.8% quoted in the TVAS report, I can see the suitability report referred 
to a figure of 8%. Its not clear to me what this figure relates to or why it is different from the 
TVAS. In any event, as Ive said above, Mr T remaining in the existing BSPS wasnt an 
option at this time, so IFM shouldve waited until details of the BSPS2 were provided and 
produced the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits instead. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits. 
Notwithstanding this, because IFM only produced analysis based on a retirement age of 65 
this was already unhelpful for Mr T in making an informed decision. 
Nevertheless, this compares with the discount rate of 4.2% per year for 14 years to 
retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest of the 
two critical yield figures was 6.8% through the existing scheme and 4% through the PPF. 
If Mr T were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 65, I think the critical yield 
wouldve been somewhere between these two figures, but likely closer to the existing  
scheme of 6.8%. Given this was above both the discount rate and the regulators middle 
projection rate, I think Mr T was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. 
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the
benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, wouldve required
Mr T to take a higher level of investment risk than he indicated he was prepared to
take. And even then I think hed still be no better off as a result of transferring.
Im mindful too that Mr Ts ultimate destination for his transferred benefits was in a managed 
investment portfolio that was considered to be a cautious risk profile according to the 
providers factsheet. Given this, I think the expected investment returns would be lower than 
a comparable balanced risk profile investment from the same provider. I think this further supports the view that a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was not financially 
viable in this case.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr T wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As I
said above, no critical yield was produced based on Mr Ts preferred retirement age. But at 
65 it was 4% - so at age 60 it was likely to be higher. While for age 65 this is slightly lower 
than the discount rate and lower than the regulators middle projection rate, I think even 
based on a retirement age of 65 it seems likely to me that the opportunity to improve on the 
benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr T transferred out of the BSPS.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the BSPS wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
The primary reason IFM recommended the transfer was because it said it would provide 
Mr T with flexibility  it would allow him to decide when and how he took his pension benefits 
and not run the risk of being restricted when the scheme moved to the PPF or it became the 
new BSPS.
But I dont think Mr T knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement  in 
my view the reference to flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of moving to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ts. And in any event, I 
dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve flexibility, if thats what 
he ultimately required.
Mr T was 50 at the time of the advice. And while I dont think it would be unreasonable for 
him to have started to think about his future retirement, theres nothing to show or suggest 
he had anything that could reasonably be described as concrete plans for retirement. It 
seems to me that Mr Ts indication of ideally wanting to retire at 55 was no different to the 
answer most working people would give, if asked. I dont think it was driven by any particular 
plan  hence why I think Mr T indicated a more realistic retirement age of 60. 
I accept Mr T might have liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option 
available to him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I also accept that Mr T 
couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump 
sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr T had to take those benefits at the same time. But 
nothing indicates that Mr T had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income. 
Mr T said that a lump sum wasnt of primary importance to him and he didnt, for example, 
need a lump sum to repay his mortgage because he already had savings that he was using 
to offset the whole outstanding balance. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr T 
needed to vary his income throughout retirement.
 
So as I said above, it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of 
transferring to a personal arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ts. And so I 
dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his guaranteed benefits now 
when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
Despite Mr T not having an apparent need for flexibility, importantly he was contributing to 
his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension scheme, something Im not persuaded 
IFM properly considered in terms of the role this could play in Mr Ts future income generation  it simply acknowledged he had it quoting the contribution rate. But Mr T was 
contributing 6% of his salary and his employer was matching it - so a total of 12% of Mr Ts 
salary was being invested here. And while I accept Mr T was likely unhappy with how his 
employer had handled the BSPS, hed indicated that he didnt intend to change employer. 
So given Mr T had the potential for at least another 10 years contributions based on his 
more realistic retirement age of 60, without accounting for growth, salary increases or 
increases to Mr Ts contribution rate, this had the potential to be worth in excess of £70,000.
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr T with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr T couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr T 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, coupled with his 
existing savings wouldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately 
decided  and would likely meet his income needs.
So in any event, Mr T didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr T 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age. And by opting into the BSPS2, 
he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. 
This ought to have been clearly explained by IFM.
Turning to Mr Ts income need  IFM didnt carry out a detailed income and expenditure in 
retirement analysis to determine the level of income Mr T would likely need. The fact-find did 
include a current income and expenditure section, which showed that Mr Ts current 
household expenditure was around £2,100 a month. In its defence of the advice to transfer, 
IFM has said if both Mr T and his wife retired at 55 their combined retirement income  about 
£1,100 each a month from their DB schemes  would be a little over half of their working 
earned income and around £1,800 a month less than they currently spent. But its own 
analysis showed their expenditure was £2,100 a month which left a surplus. Also I very 
much doubt Mr T would expect to receive the same level of income in retirement as when he 
was working. And as Ive already said, IFM didnt carry out a detailed analysis of Mr Ts likely 
future income need to establish what was realistic or achievable.
But looking at Mr Ts circumstances, Ive seen nothing to indicate that he needed variable 
income. And nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new 
scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr T with, at the very least, a solid income 
foundation upon which his wifes pension income could build upon and his other provision 
could supplement, to meet his overall income need  particularly at his indicated preferred 
retirement age of 60.
For example at age 60, IFMs analysis about the existing BSPSs reduction factors suggests 
Mr T would receive an annual income of just over £15,000 a year. Because of the reduced 
revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to 
it. Although this alone wouldnt likely meet Mr Ts income need, as I said above, Mr Ts wife 
had a pension which it seems wouldve provided a similar annual amount at age 60. 
So combined these wouldve provided a useful, solid and guaranteed income foundation. 
And importantly in my view, a solid foundation upon which Mr T could use his other pension 
provision (both his quoted small superannuation pension and his workplace DC pension) 
along with this investment / savings income (or the savings themselves) to likely meet his 
overall household income need  at least until his and his wifes state pensions became 
payable. Mr Ts DC pension wouldve likely had a not insignificant amount that he could draw 
on flexibly, as and when needed, to either top up his income or take a lump sum. I think this route was a far more preferrable one than risking his DB scheme benefits to achieve things.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr T wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr T would receive was likely lower that the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation at this time. As Ive said above, Mr Ts retirement plans 
and needs werent known and he wouldve had his DC scheme and other means to draw on 
flexibly until his state pension became payable.
Overall, I think Mr T couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or 
the PPF. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his pension just to 
have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
While the primary reason for IFMs recommendation was to provide Mr T with flexibility, 
reference is also made in the advice paperwork to death benefits and Mr Ts objective of 
wanting to ensure his pension didnt die with him allowing it to be fully inherited by his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision tool. And I dont think 
IFM explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr T predeceased her. I dont think IFM made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr T. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
IFM should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore Mr T already had lump sum death benefits available. IFM knew that Mr T had 
generous death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement  six 
times his salary. And it also knew that Mr T was paying into his DC scheme and he wouldve 
been able to nominate his spouse as beneficiary of this if he hadnt already done so.
But if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife / family over and above that which 
was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns, I think IFM ought to 
have explored and ultimately recommended, additional life cover. 
The starting point here neednt have been to base the cover on the full transfer value, but 
ought to have been considered in terms of how much Mr T wanted to leave his family, after 
taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Another of IFMs reason for its recommendation was to ensure Mr T could retire when he 
wanted - he didnt want to take the risk of having restrictions in place when the scheme 
entered the PPF or it became the new BSPS. Reference was also made to Mr Ts concerns 
about the scheme and that he wanted to break all ties with his employer.
I have no doubt that Mr T was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So
its quite possible that Mr T was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was IFMs obligation to 
give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going to
go ahead. So I think IFM shouldve waited for the details of the BSPS2 so it could
properly take the benefits available to Mr T through the BSPS2 into account. And I think this
wouldve alleviated Mr Ts concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and the scheme
moved to the PPF, I think that IFM shouldve reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. Despite what IFM indicated, 
Mr T did still have the option of taking early retirement through the PPF. As I set out Mr T 
didnt have any real retirement plans at this stage. But I think the income available to Mr T 
through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his other means could 
supplement to likely meet his income need at retirement. Importantly he was also unlikely to 
be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF 
were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
Mr T might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons I set out 
earlier, there was no apparent need for him to do so. 
So I dont think that Mr Ts concerns shouldve led to IFM recommending he transfer out of 
the BSPS altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr T was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But IFM wasnt there to just transact what Mr T 
might have thought he wanted or what sounded attractive. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF, at a time when I dont think his retirement plans were in any way formulated. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Mr T was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits at his retirement age. And in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for 
him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension at this time.So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr T that he should not transfer the benefits of his BSPS 
to a personal pension arrangement. And if things had happened as they should have and 
IFM had waited until the details of the BSPS2 were known before formulating its advice, 
which was in the offing at the time of its written advice, I think it shouldve recommended that 
Mr T opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But as Ive already 
said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position IFM 
adopted. Because Mr Ts retirement plans were very far from being set in stone, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr T wouldve retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs demanded it. Also, Mr T 
was married and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death,
and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr T chose to do
so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous
under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against IFM's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against IFMs advice. I say this because, while as Ive already 
said Mr T was likely motivated to transfer when he approached IFM, I still think Mr T 
wouldve listened to and followed IFMs advice if things had happened as they should have 
and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr T was not, in my view and 
experienced investor- while Mr T had ISA investments, he was not someone who possessed 
the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they were given, 
particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ts pension accounted for the majority of his 
private retirement provision. So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If IFM had 
explained that Mr T could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr T wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against IFMs advice.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr T. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish IFM 
 which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical 
impact this had on Mr T. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr T is 
now at the age when his retirement provision is of great importance, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. IFM should also pay Mr T £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the 
unsuitable advice has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman