DRN-1769926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited has declined to provide 
settlement for a claim they made under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have explained that they needed to make a claim under their buildings 
insurance policy  after the roof of a barn on their property collapsed. The roof fell into the 
centre of the barn structure and damaged the walls of the barn too. Mr and Mrs B have said 
this happened during a storm in February 2019.
Legal & General appointed a loss to adjuster to visit the property and provide a report on the 
loss. The loss adjuster noted several problems with the barn. And that it felt the damage was 
as a result of gradual deterioration. It said there was; 
Evidence of timber decay both on the roof and walls;
Evidence of roof spread having occurred over time likely due to the dilapidation of 
the main roof structure; 
Issues with nearby vegetation which could have caused a problem. 
An additional part of the pitched roof that had been added later, which may have 
contributed towards the barns damage;
Signs of infestation;
The potential that beams were cut to allow for windows to be added to the tack room 
part of the barn. 
 
Because of this, it said the damage to the barn was most likely as a result of wear and tear  
with the damage happening gradually, and the roof finally caving in. Legal and General 
therefore declined the claim, noting damage caused by wear and tear was specifically 
excluded under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said;
The barn was a listed building  having been built over 250 years ago. They noted 
that some of the issues the loss adjuster identified were just a natural consequence 
of the building being the age that it was;
That English heritage has looked at the barn previously  when they were thinking of 
converting it to a dwelling in 2014. And it didnt mention any problems with the 
condition of the structure;
They had completed repairs on the barn periodically, when cladding or tiles needed 
repairing/replacing for example;
Storm damage was the cause of the roof falling in and causing the damage.
Legal & General sent out a surveyor from a different firm, to review the barn. This surveyor 
noted the damage was most likely due to the various areas of deterioration within the barn. 
And they said that had these issues not been present, the incident wouldnt have happened.As a result of the above, Legal & General maintained its position. So, Mr and Mrs B referred 
their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He said he couldnt see a storm force weather 
conditions were present at the time of the loss. And he was persuaded by the loss adjuster 
and surveyors comments on the condition of the property  meaning the loss was most 
likely to have been caused gradually as the property continue to wear. As this was excluded 
under Mr and Mrs policy, he felt Legal & General had acted reasonably in declining the claim 
made.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They reiterated the above points and considered Legal & General 
should be covering the claim. 
Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to this complaint. Ive explained my reasoning for this 
below.
In the first instance, its important to note that both parties have provided a range of 
information in respect of this complaint. Id like to reassure both parties Ive considered all 
points and information provided to me when arriving at my decision. But, in this decision Ive 
only referred to the points and information I consider necessary to illustrate my reasoning for 
the outcome Ive reached.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs policy documents  to see what cover Mr and Mrs B have. 
Their policy is an all risks policy. So, it covers any loss or damage to their property  unless 
it is otherwise excluded within the policy wording.
Both parties accept there is significant damage to the barn at Mr and Mrs Bs property. So, I 
havent needed to consider that any further. 
But Legal & General has said the claim isnt covered, because an exclusion within the policy 
applies to the loss. This exclusion is as follows;
11. Wear and Tear and Gradually Operating Causes
We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or 
indirectly by or resulting from;
Anything which happens gradually, including smoke, damp, rising damp, wear and 
tea, gradual deterioration, fading, corrosion, rust or oxidation, rot, fungus, mould or 
infestation;
Moths, insects, vermin or infestation;
Dryness or humidity, being exposed to light or extreme temperatures, unless the loss 
or damage is caused by storm, frost or fire
The process of dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation, restoration or anything reaching 
the end of its serviceable life.
Having read the above, its clear that any damage caused by wear and tear, or gradual 
deterioration isnt covered. Ive therefore needed to consider whether Legal and General has acted fairly in applying this 
exclusion to Mr and Mrs Bs claim. And based on the information Ive seen from both parties 
I think it has. So, Im not requiring Legal & General to do anything further.
As above, Mr and Mrs Bs barn was visited by a loss adjuster, and later a surveyor. It wasnt 
possible for these experts to enter the barn, because of the degree of damage. So, they 
reviewed the damage from the outside of the structure, completed reports and took photos of 
what they observed. 
Ive seen a copy of these reports. The loss adjuster explains that the barn appeared to be in 
a fairly poor state of repair prior to the roof falling in, with evidence of timber decay to 
numerous parts or the timber framed walls and timber pitched roof. And that the barn, which 
was over 250 years old, was in need of general maintenance, and the damage was thus 
largely inevitable.
The report details the maintenance concerns seen  for example the decay of timbers and 
walls, indications of roof spread, wood worm, and that vegetation such as ivy near the barn 
would have contributed to the deterioration of the barn over time. Therefore, causing the roof 
to fall in.  
The report completed by the surveyor who reviewed the barn also concluded the most likely 
cause of the collapse was the condition of the barn  which showed significant deterioration. 
And the weather at the time of the loss simply highlighted the problem. The surveyor noted 
issues with gradual deterioration such as signs decay, fungal attack and infestation, as well 
as some structural problems with the lintels, timber frame and joints. And they noted that had 
these not been an issue, the frame of the barn would have been able to resist any bad 
weather. 
This surveyor summarised his observations as;
We have a strong prospect that the collapse has been caused by a long term weakening of 
the frame which lead up to a series of catastrophic failures caused by lateral movements 
causing the purlins in the roof space to become displaced and the ridge timbers split. These 
were tied to the crucks and as they dropped pulled the external walls inward causing the 
lintels (a weak spot in the structure) over the double door openings to fail.
The result being that much of the building fell in open (sic) itself and the side elevations then 
suffered an outward displacement at their mid (weakest) point over the door openings.
The reports werent conclusive about which one of the issues ultimately led to the collapse of 
the roof structure. And I understand this is concerning to Mr and Mrs B. As above, they note 
several problems  all pointing to deterioration over time. But I dont think the reports need to 
list any one cause in this case. I need to decide whether its more likely than not the damage 
was as a result of gradual deterioration. And given the various areas of disrepair noted by 
the loss adjuster and surveyor, including structural problems with the walls and roof they 
noted would have led to problems, Im satisfied that gradual deterioration of the barn is more 
likely than not the cause of the collapse.
In addition, photographs were taken of various parts of the barn, and from various angles. 
And having looked at these, I can see they are consistent with the commentary provided 
within the reports. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have said these were taken after the event, and 
not before the roof fell. And that they have completed repairs to the barn when necessary. 
But Im satisfied the photos illustrate significant gradual deterioration of the barn, in line with 
their comments. And because this is excluded under their insurance policy, Im satisfied 
Legal & General acted reasonably in declining the claim. Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that an architect and English Heritage looked at the barn in 
2014, when they were looking to convert the barn to a dwelling. And they have noted at that 
point neither the architect or English Heritage gave any indication of the barn gradually 
wearing and needing action to be taken. Mr and Mrs B said had the architect or English 
Heritage noted such deterioration they would have expected them to say conversion the 
conversion of barn wasnt feasible.  
But this inspection and consideration of converting the barn was five years prior to the loss. I 
dont think this is near enough to the loss, to be firm evidence of the condition of the barn in 
2019. And in any event the information Ive been provided with, from the architect, doesnt 
discuss the condition of the building at the time  rather a proposed plan of how the barn 
would look once converted. So, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Legal & General Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman