DRN-3802985
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont remove records relating to a 
claim made under a car insurance policy he says was fraudulently taken out in his name.
What happened
Mr S says the price he was quoted for car insurance in 2021 increased by more than £800 
compared to previous years premiums.
He says that when he enquired about this with his insurer, he was told Admiral had placed a 
record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. This is the means 
insurers use to share information about policyholders and potential policyholders.
Mr S was told this related to an accident and claim in 2019. Mr S was aware of this claim. It 
was made by a family member who was a named driver on an insurance policy taken out in 
Mr Ss name. 
Mr S says the policy was taken out fraudulently by the family member, without his 
knowledge. And he says that when he raised this with Admiral in 2019, they promised that 
information about the accident and claim would not go on Mr Ss record. 
Mr S complained to Admiral. They said their decision to maintain the CUE record was 
correct and the record itself was accurate  it showed that the family member was the driver 
at the time, but Mr S was the policyholder. 
They told Mr S theyd reviewed the matter in 2019 and there was no evidence the policy was 
fraudulently taken out. And theyd only review things again if the police investigation Mr S 
said was carried out at the time showed that the family member didnt have Mr Ss consent 
to set up the policy.
Admiral also said they hadnt at any point in 2019 promised Mr S  or indicated in any other 
way  that there would be no record about the accident and claim related to him.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the policy taken out in his name until he was notified about the 
accident and claim in October 2019.
Admirals records show a contact with the policyholder in August 2019  before the 
accident. The policyholder isnt named, but the policyholder on the policy certificate is Mr S. 
His family member is a named driver.
Its not entirely clear from the note, but that contact appears to have been about amending 
the policy to remove a car and/or driver. The caller was advised that couldnt be done 
without cancelling the existing policy.
Its possible Admiral recorded that conversation as being with the policyholder when it was 
actually with the other named driver (the family member), but thats unlikely. Admirals staff 
might be expected to know who the policyholder is and to be able to distinguish between the 
policyholder and other named drivers. So, although the name of the caller isnt recorded, I 
think its very likely the agent at least thought they were speaking to Mr S. 
It's also possible that the agent was speaking to the family member, but they pretended to 
be Mr S. Its not possible to prove that one way or the other. And Admiral tell us they dont 
hold recordings of calls of that age, so the primary evidence is now gone. But its difficult to 
see what advantage the family member might have been seeking in making such a call.
The accident happened on 6 October 2019. Admirals records show a call from Mr S (again 
referred to as the policyholder rather than by name) on 7 October 2019. 
In this case, the caller is noted as asking whether he could remove himself from the policy 
and leave just the family member as the sole named driver. Hes advised this wont be 
possible without cancelling the policy. 
Again, that call may have been made by someone other than Mr S. Although again, its 
difficult to see what that person might have been trying to achieve or gain from that contact.
The first mention of the policy being set up fraudulently is during a call two days later on 9 
October 2019  again recorded as being from the policyholder. Its during this call that the 
policy is cancelled, which meant that the claim was closed. 
Its safe to assume that call was made by Mr S. He tells us he asked Admiral to cancel the 
policy. And its very unlikely the family member made this call purporting to be Mr S because 
they had nothing to gain  and indeed, a substantial sum of money to lose  when the claim 
was closed.
Broadly, there are two possibilities here. One, Mr S was fully aware of the policy when it was 
taken out and later tried to disassociate himself from it when his family member had the 
accident and made the claim. Or two, Mr S was unaware of a policy fraudulently taken out in 
his name until after the accident occurred.
It's not for me to definitively determine which of those two scenarios is actually true. My role 
is to decide whether Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S. 
Admiral have told Mr S thats theres no persuasive evidence at present to demonstrate 
thats its likely the policy was taken out fraudulently. I dont think thats unreasonable looking 
at all the evidence that is available.
At the moment, it seems to me that the available evidence reasonably strongly suggests that 
the policy wasnt taken out fraudulently. 
That balance might of course change if other information or evidence comes to light. But 
Admiral have also said - in my view, quite reasonably - that if Mr S can show that the police 
investigation he says took place unearthed evidence to suggest that the family member 
acted fraudulently, then theyll review the matter.That being the case, I cant reasonably conclude that Admiral have treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably. The current CUE record says there was a policy in Mr Ss name under which 
a claim was made in October 2019 after another named driver had an accident. 
Thats factually correct  and relevant to future potential insurers. Mr S hasnt as yet 
provided Admiral with persuasive evidence to suggest the policy was taken out fraudulently 
and without his knowledge. 
Admiral have been clear about what theyd need to see in order to dissociate Mr Ss name 
from the accident and claim record. And if there was a police investigation that concluded 
the family member had committed fraud, or turned up evidence to suggest that may have 
been the case, that would be well known to Mr S and hed be able to provide evidence of 
that relatively easily.
Finally, I cant see any evidence at all to suggest Admiral promised to remove Mr Ss name 
from the record relating to the accident and claim. And, given the circumstances, Im 
satisfied  in the absence of any such evidence  that its inherently unlikely they would have 
done so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman