DRN-2671248
The complaint
Mr I complains that esure Insurance Limited Trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) didnt
replace his car with a new one when it was severely damaged in an accident and he claimed
under his esure motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr I and his partner Mrs A acquired a new car which Mr I insured online with
esure. The car was financed through a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) arrangement
which was drawn up as a hire purchase agreement in Mrs As name. The cash price of the
car was shown as £18,865. Mrs A paid a total of £6,500 in the form of cash deposits and
part exchange allowance, and the balance of £12,365 was provided by the finance company.
In January 2020, the car was severely damaged in a road accident and Mr I claimed under
his esure policy. Esure said it would pay out the market value of the car - £12,370 - less the
£400 excess on Mr Is policy. So it paid £11,300.46 to the finance company in settlement of
the outstanding finance under the hire purchase agreement, and paid Mr I the balance of
£669.54.
Mr I complained to esure that this was unfair, and not what his policy provided. He pointed to
the following term of his policy:
New car cover
Well replace your car with a new one of the same make and model if;
 your car is less than a year old and
 you or your partner were the first and only owner and registered keeper and
 its been stolen and not recovered; or the cost of repairing the car is more than 55% of the 
manufacturers latest UK list price (including taxes).
We can only do this if theres a replacement car available in Great Britain or the Isle of Man
and anyone who has an interest in your car agrees.
If a suitable car isnt available or those with an interest do not agree, well pay you the price
you paid for your car and all its accessories or the latest manufacturers list price (including
taxes) - whichever is less.
Mr I said esure should have paid to replace his car with a new one under this provision.
Esure didnt agree. It said that their PCP arrangement was effectively a long-term lease as
they didnt own the car. Although they sent esure a copy of their finance agreement to show
it was a hire purchase agreement rather than a lease, esure said this didnt alter its view.
It said they werent the owner of the car at the time of the accident. So as they werent the
first and only owner as required by the policy wording, the provision didnt apply. It had met
the policy terms by paying out the market value of the car immediately before the accident.
Mr I and Mrs A had taken out a GAP insurance policy with a different insurer and were able
to claim, broadly, the difference between the amount esure paid out and the original cash
price of the car. However, they complained to us that esure hadnt dealt fairly with their 
claim.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought that as
neither Mr I nor Mrs A owned the car, the provisions of the New Car Cover set out above
hadnt been complied with, and esure didnt have to provide them with a replacement car.
By paying out the market value of the car, part to the finance company to settle the finance
agreement and the balance to Mr I and Mrs A, she thought esure had fulfilled its obligations
under the policy. She also pointed out that because of the payment they had received under
their GAP insurance policy they hadnt actually suffered a financial loss.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked for his complaint to be
reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr I and to esure on 23 February 2021. In it I said that 
when considering such a new for old provision in a motor insurance policy, where the car is
being acquired by the policyholder under a hire purchase agreement, as in this case, we 
take the view that although the finance company is presently the legal owner of the car, the 
policy holder also has a substantial financial interest in it.
I noted that of the £18,865 cash price in this case, the finance company provided £12,365,
with the balance being supplied in cash and part exchange allowance by the policy holder.
So we thought it was fair and reasonable that if the finance company, the vehicles legal 
owner, agreed to the provision of a new car by the insurer then the criteria of the new for 
old term was met and the insurer should then provide a new car or the equivalent value.
I thought Mr I had a legitimate expectation that if the finance company agreed, esure would
apply the new for old provision of the policy and supply a new replacement car or the cost
price of the original car.
Mr I said the finance company had confirmed that it would have consented to a replacement
car being substituted under the finance agreement. However, it appeared that esure had 
refused to apply the new for old provision, or to engage with the finance company. So I 
thought esure had acted wrongly in refusing to apply the new for old provision, and only 
paying out the market value of the original car.
However, Mr I had taken out a separate GAP insurance policy which had paid out the
difference between the market value of the car paid by esure and its original cost, less the
excess under the esure policy of £400 which Mr I would always have had to pay. So in the
events that had happened, I couldnt see that Mr I had suffered any financial loss because of
the failure by esure to apply its policy terms correctly which I could require esure to 
reimburse.
I was aware that the insurer of the GAP insurance policy had paid out under its policy and 
was out of pocket to that extent. It considered that it shouldnt have had to pay this if esure 
had properly met the terms of its policy. However, it wasnt a party to this complaint. So that 
wasnt something I could consider in this decision.I did think that the failure of esure to deal properly with Mr Is claim under his policy had
caused him distress and inconvenience for which it was right that he should be 
compensated. I therefore proposed to require esure to pay him £200 as compensation for 
this. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr I accepted my provisional decision. Esure responded to say, in summary, that:
it didnt dispute that Mr I had a financial interest in the car. However, he wasnt the 
owner at the time of the claim and might never become the owner. So he wasnt the 
first registered owner and keeper which was a fundamental requirement for esure to 
consider New Car Replacement under the policy;
it drew my attention to a decision by another financial ombudsman in August 2018 
where the ombudsman upheld esures decision not to provide a new car replacement 
in similar circumstances; and
it said that if an obligation was imposed on motor insurers to provide New Car Replacement 
for PCP contracts in the first year, this could potentially have an unintended negative impact 
on the sale and availability of GAP insurance policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view remains as set out in my provisional decision. 
The great majority of new cars sold to consumers are currently acquired on finance  very 
often under PCP arrangements. That being so, this service thinks its unfair for an insurer to 
refuse to apply a new for old provision of a policy where the policyholder is the hirer under 
a hire purchase agreement, the other terms of the provision are fulfilled, its requested by the
insured, and is consented to by the finance company as legal owner.
 
Our views on such matters can change from time to time; this may explain why the
ombudsman in the complaint esure quoted came to a different view some two and a half
years ago. But the view Ive expressed has been our consistent view since the latter part of 
2020.
I would also point out that we consider each complaint on its own individual facts, and what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of that complaint. Whether or not our decision 
may affect the marketability of GAP insurance in the future isnt something we should take 
into account in reaching our decision.
I remain of the view that esure didnt treat Mr I fairly when it considered his claim. Because 
he was able to claim under his GAP policy, he hasnt suffered any financial loss. But I 
consider esure should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think esure should compensate Mr I by paying him £200My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order esure Insurance Limited  trading 
as Sheilas' Wheels to pay Mr I £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman