DRN-4495730
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the acts and advice of Ms L in the transfer of her pensions to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to purchase commercial property belonging to her 
husbands business. The purchase didnt proceed and she thinks shes lost valuable pension 
benefits and incurred unnecessary fees as a result. Ms L was connected to Policy Services 
Limited (PSL) from 2018 onwards and Mrs S thinks that PSL is therefore responsible.
What happened
Ms L worked was an adviser at Sanlam. In 2017, Mrs Ss husband was looking to purchase 
his businesss commercial property with his and Mrs Ss pensions. Ms L advised Mrs S to 
transfer her pension to a SIPP in order to facilitate this. 
I understand the transfer to a Sanlam SIPP was made a short time later.
Ms L then left Sanlam and moved to St James Place (SJP) in July 2018. As SJP advisers 
cant advise on non-SJP products (such as Sanlam products), Ms L also signed an 
agreement with PSL. Broadly, the agreement allowed Ms L to continue to provide an 
ongoing service and receive fees (via PSL) from legacy advice conducted as a Sanlam 
adviser that she and her clients assigned to PSL. But the agreement set out that Ms L could 
not give advice on behalf of PSL and would need to refer clients back to PSL if advice was 
required by a client. 
PSL says that it took over servicing of Mrs Ss plan from September 2018. And its provided 
a copy of the agreement it says it had in place with Mrs S setting out the service it would 
provide.
The property purchase did not complete. The reasons for this appear to be a combination of 
a refusal by Sanlam SIPP to purchase the property and difficulties with the freeholder. 
Because of the failure to acquire the property and the losses she said she suffered by 
transferring her pension, Mrs S complained to a number of the regulated parties associated 
with Ms L:
Her complaint against Sanlam was held to be not one that we could consider. Thats 
because, for the purposes of our rules, Mrs S could not be said to be a consumer 
with respect to advice given to her by Ms L whilst working for Sanlam in 2017 as it 
related to using her pension for business purposes (i.e. the acquisition of her 
husbands property). That complaint is now closed.
Her complaint against SJP was also held to be not one that we could consider under 
our jurisdiction rules. It was decided that after Ms L moved to SJP in 2018, SJP had 
not authorised Ms L to give advice on non-SJP products. So, if shed given any 
advice about Sanlam pensions, that wasnt something that SJP was responsible for. 
That complaint is also closed.
This decision deals with Mrs Ss complaint about Ms Ls association with PSL. PSLs 
response to the complaint was that its role was to provide information and 
correspondence to Ms L in order for her to provide an ongoing service to Mrs S. But it 
was not responsible for any advice shed given in her previous role as a Sanlam 
adviser or any other advice she may have later given.
However, it did agree to refund Mrs S for a £3,000 fee that had been taken from her 
pension in error.
One of our investigators looked at the PSL complaint and decided that we had jurisdiction to 
consider one aspect of it, but not all of it. He said that PSL was not responsible (and so we 
did not have jurisdiction) for the advice Ms L had given before she joined PSL in 2018. Nor 
was PSL responsible for advice Ms L may have later given because she was not authorised 
by PSL to give any investment advice or arrangements.
However, the investigator said that PSL had obligations to Mrs S as the servicing agent for 
the pensions. This was something that we did have jurisdiction to consider. But having 
looked at the evidence, he didnt think PSL had done anything wrong. He said that Mrs S 
could have asked PSL to undertake a review and provide advice  but didnt do so. So, 
overall, the investigator thought that PSLs offer to refund the £3,000 fees taken in error was 
fair and he didnt think PSL should pay any further compensation.
Mrs S didnt agree and so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023 setting out that we had jurisdiction to 
look at part of the complaint and that it should be upheld. 
PSL didnt dispute my findings.
Mrs S responded to only express her (understandable) disillusionment with all parties 
involved  especially the fact it required a complaint from her to elicit PSLs acknowledgment 
that £3,000 had been taken in error. She was also disappointed with my award of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Given the above  my findings below remain very largely the same as in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
There are essentially two aspects of the complaint.
1. The original advice in 2017 to transfer to the Sanlam SIPP.
2. The failure between 2017-2021 to appropriately advise and provide a service to Mrs 
S.DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
Looking at DISP, point 1. above can be dealt with quite briefly. As Mrs S knows from her 
complaint against Sanlam, she is not a consumer for the purposes of bringing a complaint 
about the advice from 2017. That is one jurisdiction barrier to this complaint against PSL. 
And Ms L wasnt associated with PSL at the time of the advice. She was a Sanlam adviser 
until July 2018. So that is another jurisdiction barrier. As such, we dont have jurisdiction to 
consider a complaint against PSL for the advice in 2017.
Point 2 is a matter we do have jurisdiction to consider. It is a general matter relating to her 
pension provision rather than one directly relating to the commercial property purchase  so 
Mrs S is a consumer for these purposes. PSL accepts that it took on responsibility for 
servicing Mrs Ss pension from the time Ms L left Sanlam in July 2018. There is no dispute 
that PSL was conducting a regulated activity as a result of the ongoing service for Mrs S in 
the period after the it took on Mrs Ss policy. Therefore, Im satisfied that we do have 
jurisdiction to consider the role of PSL in any losses sustained by Mrs S from that period until 
2021 when Mrs S appears to have cut ties with Ms L and PSL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the agreement between PSL and Mrs S, I think its clear in setting out that 
further investment advice would only be provided if Mrs S required it and Ms L wasnt able to 
offer a SJP product in her role as a SJP adviser: 
[PSL] will not provide an ongoing assessment of suitability of your policies or plans 
as part of the Ongoing Service except if we are appointed as your agent in respect of 
discretionary fund management (DFM) services - see the Discretionary Fund 
Management section. We will notify you in writing if those terms apply to you. 
However, you can request further information or advice from us at any time. Details 
of the charges for advice are in the Advice Tariff section of this document.
In the circumstances, I dont think PSL was required or instructed to advise Mrs S about 
whether she should switch her investment funds.
The agreement between PSL and Mrs S did however set out that, in return for an annual fee 
of 1% of her fund value, PSL would provide:
a full comprehensive valuation report once a year;
a valuation report 6 months after the comprehensive report;and that, via Ms L, provide an ongoing service review twice a year. The definition of 
this was as follows:
Your Partner [i.e. Ms L] will contact you to arrange an Ongoing Servicing Review 
either face to face, on-line or by telephone at the frequency stated in line with your 
selected Servicing Level. [PSL] will produce a Portfolio Valuation Report or Valuation 
Summary as part of the Ongoing Servicing in line with your Servicing Level. Your 
Partner can discuss this information, relating to your policies or plans, with you and 
answer any questions.
The agreement also set out that:
Levels of Ongoing Service
As mentioned earlier we respect the relationship you have with your Partner.
We have a contractual agreement with Your Partner and, should you decide to agree 
to our Ongoing Services, we will provide you and your Partner with up to date 
information on your Non-SJP policies or plans.
Your Ongoing Servicing Reviews will be delivered by your Partner on behalf of 
Policy Services. The frequency and timing of these Ongoing Servicing Reviews will 
be agreed with Your Partner and will be designed to suit your personal and nancial 
circumstances (the options are in the Ongoing Service Costs table below).
At your Ongoing Servicing Reviews with your Partner you can discuss the 
performance of your Non-SJP policies or plans (they can of course discuss your SJP 
Plans at the same time).
The Ongoing Servicing Review may be provided via a face to face meeting with your 
Partner, online, or by telephone, in line with the agreed Ongoing Service Level. If you 
need advice on your Non-SJP policies or plans, your Partner will refer you to Policy 
Services.
We understand that all clients do not have the same Ongoing Service requirements. 
You are free to choose the level of Ongoing Service that best suits your needs. It is 
important, however, that you discuss this with your Partner or Policy Services if you 
are uncertain which service level is right for you considering your needs and the level 
of fees being paid.
(Remember the adviser fees or commission already being paid under your non-SJP 
policies or plans will go towards, or cover the fees set out in the Service Level Table 
below. Therefore, if you are currently being charged 1% under your existing policies 
or plans it would follow that Servicing Level 1 would be your most likely selection).
Please note your Partner or adviser will receive a proportion of the fees payable by 
you for the delivery of your Ongoing Service.
Mrs Ss selected servicing level was Level 1  the most expensive and comprehensive 
service offered by PSL.
When I asked PSL what service it actually provided to Mrs S, it didnt confirm whether it had 
provided the comprehensive valuation or 6 month valuation reports. It may well have done. But with regard to the reviews, it said that Ms L attended eight meetings with Mrs S between 
2018 and 2021.  And PSL provided an email from Ms L that said: 
This is all of the correspondence from when I moved to SJP and [PSL] in June 18 to 
when the property purchase fell through and I was a point of contact to aid the client 
from a service perspective to purchase the business premises he wanted to 
purchase. After this didn't complete with the client I couldn't get hold of them for a 
meeting to discuss how to move forward and if an alternative needed to be 
considered due to him being out of the market/funds therefore I had intended to 
review plans and consider a move to an SJP retirement account or refer 
backed for advice to policy services but this was not possible as [Mrs S and 
her husband] would not return calls, emails (my emphasis)
PSL explained that:
The clients were entitled to annual review of their policies. As we have demonstrated 
[Ms L] met the clients regularly to discuss their position/plans. In addition to the 
meetings, there were also regular telephone calls and emails. It was not possible to 
carry out the traditional review (as detailed in our client proposition) as the 
policy set up had not yet been completed however [Ms L] had substantial 
communications with the clients which we feel would justify the fees being received. 
The application process eventually came to a halt as Sanlam and [the freeholder] 
could not come to an agreement. (my emphasis)
Whether or not the eight meetings took place, it doesnt look like any kind of review of 
Mrs Ss pension happened. PSLs and Ms Ls evidence is clearly that they did not. Instead, 
the meetings that took place appear to have focused on the narrow issue of resolving issues 
with the commercial property to allow it to be purchased by Mrs Ss pension. This wasnt 
something that was set out in the agreement between PSL and Mrs S.
PSL has said that it didnt provide the traditional review (which Ive understood to mean the 
Ongoing Service Review) because of the circumstances involved in Mrs Ss case and the 
difficulties with the commercial property. But it knew this or ought to have known about this 
when it took on the servicing rights to Mrs Ss pension in September 2018. Despite this, it 
agreed to offer the ongoing review service and received fees for this.
In total PSL received over £7,500 in fees from September 2018 to February 2021. PSL 
accepts that £3,000 was received in error and has offered to repay this. But the question I 
must deal with is whether PSL treated Mrs S fairly in respect of the remainder of the fees it 
took from Mrs S for the service it agreed to provide.
The regulator has issued a factsheet on ongoing fees which Ive shared with PSL which 
says, You must ensure you have robust systems and controls in place to make sure your 
clients receive the ongoing service you have committed to. So, in situations like this, the 
emphasis is on the business actually providing (not just offering to provide) the service and 
the consumer receiving it. It is not enough to invite the consumer for reviews (or even fail to 
do that), but then still apply the charges. 
Im aware that PSLs agreement with Mrs S said that Ms L would be the principal contact 
and would agree the ongoing service requirements. So, its possible that Ms L might have 
orally agreed to do something different than set out in writing in the PSL agreement. But, I 
dont think thats likely. Instead I think its more likely that Ms L intended for the ongoing fee 
arrangements to continue as per what shed agreed with Mrs S and her husband in her 
previous role as a Sanlam adviser. I say this because her notes for Mr Ss later SIPP 
application in 2019 (where she used PSLs details) said:I am looking to take an ad hoc fee of £6,000 in total and an ongoing fee as per 
suitability report. (my emphasis)
The original suitability report with Sanlam for Mr S said that the ongoing fee would be 
payable for an annual review service that included an advisory review  all for 0.55%. I 
dont think it likely that Ms L would have told Mr S and Mrs S they would be charged more by 
PSL (1%) for a lesser service because of issues with the commercial property.
Taking this all into account, I think PSL had a duty to provide the ongoing review service it 
agreed to provide to Mrs S. Im not persuaded it provided this service to the extent it said it 
would or at all. It likely knew there were issues that meant that Mrs S was in an unusual 
situation where she was trying to implement a difficult property purchase via her pension. In 
those circumstances, it should not have charged her for a service it wasnt providing and 
couldnt provide.
As such, I think it would be fair and reasonable for PSL to refund Mrs S all the fees she paid.
Putting things right
PSL shouldnt have taken the fees it charged Mrs S from his pension. 
If PSL hadnt deducted the fees (including the £3,000 PSL accepts it deducted in error), then 
the money would have remained invested in Mrs Ss pension. So it would be fair for PSL to 
ask Mrs Ss pension provider (Sanlam  or her current pension provider if she has since 
switched) to calculate the current notional transfer values had she not incurred the fees. If 
there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then a benchmark of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half the fees and for the other half the 
average rate from fixed rate bonds should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be 
a reasonable and practical proxy.
I understand that PSL will apply the benchmark method of redress as obtaining the notional 
values is difficult. That is acceptable.
Any additional sum that Mrs S paid into the pension should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the pension should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if PSL totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Since the loss Mrs S has suffered is within her pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of her pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mrs Ss pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into 
the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mrs S could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mrs Ss marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mrs Ss pension, the compensation should 
be paid to Mrs S direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Mrs S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. Its reasonable to assume that Mrs S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mrs S would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15% current basic rate of tax. 
PSL should also pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
her  which has exacerbated an already difficult time for her with regard to her pension 
provision. I know Mrs S is disappointed with this amount  but I think its commensurate with 
what PSL  rather than Ms L or any other party - is responsible for.  
PSL should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that 
Mrs S has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid 
from the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per 
year. PSL should pay this interest directly to Mrs S.  Income tax may be payable on any 
interest paid. If PSL deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs S how much has 
been taken off. PSL should give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mrs S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold that part Mrs Ss complaint that we have jurisdiction to consider. Policy Services 
Limited should pay Mrs S the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman