DRN-3811442
The complaint
Mr L complains about the actions of Wise Payments Limited when he was the victim of a 
scam in which he sent money to one of its customers accounts. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief summary of some of the key events here. 
In December 2020, Mr L made a transfer of around 49,000 AUD from his overseas bank 
account to an account held with Wise to fund what he believed at the time was an 
investment opportunity with a regulated firm Ill refer to as G. Unfortunately, G had been 
cloned. So Mr L had been liaising with fraudsters impersonating G  not with the genuine 
firm. When Mr L realised hed fallen victim to a scam he notified his bank, who contacted 
Wise, but no funds remained to be returned. Mr L also made direct contact with Wise asking 
that it block the recipient account and return the money hed been tricked into transferring to 
its customers account. Wise said it couldnt return or refund the disputed payment and 
referred Mr L back to his own bank. 
Mr L is unhappy with how Wise have handled matters. He believes Wise facilitated the scam 
and has failed in its duty of care by providing accounts to fraudsters. He asked our service to 
look into things. Our Investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. She was satisfied that Wise had acted fairly because it hadnt missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Ls loss; and the disputed funds had been utilised before receipt of 
notification of fraud. She concluded that Wise didnt need to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ls complaint. Mr L disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to reconsider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr L has been the victim of a scam. But having thought very 
carefully about everything Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. Understandably this will be disappointing for Mr L, so I will explain why.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that in circumstances such as Mr Ls 
an account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically entitle 
the victim who was tricked into sending funds to that account to a refund of their losses. I 
could only direct Wise to refund Mr Ls loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent it or 
did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
With that in mind, Ive considered Wises actions when opening the account and monitoring 
its operation. And the adequacy of its response when notified its customers account was in 
receipt of fraudulently obtained funds. 
I agree with our Investigator and am satisfied Wise didnt miss an opportunity to prevent 
Mr Ls loss when opening the account. From the information Wise has provided I can see it 
completed identification checks in line with its regulatory obligations and I dont think that 
there was anything at the time that reasonably couldve alerted it that the account it was 
opening would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So I dont think 
Wise couldve prevented Mr Ls loss in relation to the opening of the account. 
Ive also reviewed the statements for the account which received Mr Ls funds and taking 
into consideration the nature of the account and its expected use I dont think that Mr Ls 
payment crediting the account, nor the spending of those funds would have given Wise 
cause for concern in a way that Id say it ought to have intervened. Wise have also 
confirmed that prior to receipt of notification of fraud from Mr Ls bank it had not received any 
other fraud notifications about the recipient account. So I dont think Wise missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Ls loss in this way.  
Ive considered Wises actions once it had been put on notice. I can see from the recipient 
accounts bank statements that Mr Ls funds had been spent before Wise received 
notification of fraud from Mr Ls bank, or from Mr L directly. Both of which were on 
11 December 2020. Im satisfied Wise took action as Id expect upon receipt of notification of 
fraud from Mr Ls bank. It blocked the recipient account, and correctly informed Mr Ls bank 
that no funds remained that could be returned. I appreciate why it mightve felt unsatisfactory 
to Mr L to be told to contact his own bank when he contacted Wise. But I cant say Wise 
have acted unreasonably as the process (followed by UK banks/payment service providers) 
for reporting payments made as a result of authorised push payment (APP) fraud is for the 
payers bank to send notification to the recipient bank. One of the reasons for this is to 
mitigate the risk of malicious claims from unknown parties, which to be clear isnt something 
Im suggesting has happened here. I can also see, whilst theres no obligation on them to do 
so, that Wise did attempt to recall payments that had been sent out of its customers account 
 to which the response received was that no funds remained. As such, I dont think I can 
fairly say that Wise have treated Mr L unfairly or that it could have reasonably done more to 
try to recover Mr Ls funds.
Mr L says he tried calling Wise over the weekend, but its contact numbers were not 
reachable. He questions why Wise do not have easier and quicker support available for 
fraud victims. I appreciate under the circumstances Mr L found himself in, why he may have 
found it frustrating, not to be able to speak to someone at Wise. But the decision about the 
days and times Wise offer telephony support is a business decision  and one its entitled to 
make. So I cant say that its done anything wrong by not offering phone contact over the 
weekend. And here even if Mr L had spoken to Wise this wouldnt have made a difference to 
the sum it couldve recovered from the recipient account, as his funds had already been 
spent.  
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr L finds himself, I cant fairly tell 
Wise to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman