DRN-3382401
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, has not met its 
obligations in regard to her dispute with a timeshare relinquishment company.
What happened
In September 2015 Mrs E had owned a Timeshare type agreement for some years she 
didnt necessarily want to keep. Around that time she came into contact with a company who 
said it provided Timeshare Relinquishment services and it could get her out of the timeshare 
agreement for a fee. Ill call this company Firm 4. So Mrs E paid Firm 4 by credit card 
£917.89 as a deposit for the services to get out of her timeshare and to pursue a claim 
against the timeshare company for compensation. She also made a bank transfer in relation 
to this service for £5000 to complete the fee charged by Firm 4. And she says because of 
what she was told and had paid she believed Firm 4 were working on getting her out of her 
timeshare and pursuing a claim on her behalf.
In April 2019 she received a termination notice from the timeshare company that she had the 
timeshare with. It had decided to exit her from the agreement as shed not being paying the 
fees due each year. So she contacted Tesco in order to get her money back from Firm 4 as 
she felt that Firm 4 had breached its contract with her and also had made 
misrepresentations to her which she had relied on to her detriment.
Tesco considered the matter and decided that it didnt have any liability in these 
circumstances and told Mrs E it wouldnt be giving her any refund in relation to the money 
she paid to Firm 4. Tesco says that Mrs E paid a different company to that she had the 
contract with (Firm 4) and this meant Tesco couldnt be liable. Her card statements shows 
she paid a separate company using her credit card the £917.89 and Ill call this company 
Firm 7. 
Tesco says that to be held liable under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, specifically Section 
75 of that Act, that there is a requirement for a specific type of relationship to be in place, 
known as the Debtor-Creditor-Supplier relationship often shortened to DCS. Tesco says 
that as DCS isnt in place here the requirements of the legislation arent met and thus it 
cannot be responsible for the loss Mrs E has suffered.
Mrs E feels this is unfair, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter and found that Tesco hadnt treated her fairly in its handling of the 
matter. The Investigator felt that DCS was in place due to Firm 4 and Firm 7 being linked 
and that Section 184 of the Act namely around Associates applies here. Tesco didnt agree 
with the position of the Investigator and accordingly this dispute came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month to both parties. Mrs E accepted the 
decision. Tesco said it had no further arguments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have received the decision and neither has chosen to make further 
comments I see no reason to depart from the findings in provisional decision which are set 
out below. Mrs Es complaint is successful for the following reasons and will be remedied in 
the following manner.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about Firm 4 or other firms Mrs E dealt with 
in her efforts to extricate herself from the Timeshare. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. It is solely about what Tesco did or didnt do and 
what obligations it has under this legislation. And it should be remembered that Tesco are 
only involved in this issue because it manages Mrs Es credit card account which she used 
to make this transaction originally.
Ive considered the transaction in itself. Mrs E has made clear she attended a meeting 
regarding timeshare relinquishment and was willing to pay the fees Firm 4 put to her to get 
out of the timeshare agreement she had. She didnt challenge the transaction 
contemporaneously and in fact did raise the transaction as an issue with Tesco until some 
years after the transaction. So I think Mrs E authorised the transaction and it was correctly 
applied to her account by Tesco.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs E 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process 
which is through the card network. I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on 
the basis Mrs E didnt properly authorise the transaction, given that Mrs E freely accepts she 
made part of her overall payment for this service to be provided by Firm 4 by using her 
credit card with Tesco.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on these timeframes in which 
Chargebacks can be raised and I can see that between when Mrs E made the transaction in 
2015 and when she raised the issue with Tesco in 2019 there is a substantial amount of time 
that goes by. And this timespan is significantly outside the timeframes set out in the card 
scheme rules regarding raising chargebacks. As it is so far out of time and didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success I dont think Tesco has treated Mrs E unfairly by not 
pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a dispute here. So I dont think Mrs E has 
lost out here because of what Tesco did in relation to the chargeback process.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? (CCA)
As Mrs E used her credit card with Tesco for this transaction, this means that Tesco has 
certain responsibilities to Mrs E which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). In summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing 
Mrs E to hold Tesco liable for breaches of contract by Firm 4, or misrepresentations made by 
it in relation to the agreement made. And without going into a large amount of detail a breach 
of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to provide 
under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said or written which is relied 
upon and transpires to be untrue leading to a detriment.
It is clear that Mrs E is very much of the opinion that Firm 4 breached the contract made and 
she particularly argues that it made misrepresentations to her which led to her losing out. But 
before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits, and having considered these, I think 
on balance that Mrs Es claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement (DCS as Ive explained) in place. It is clear that although Mrs E has provided 
the contract she had with Firm 4 she actually paid a different company (Firm 7) the money 
using her credit card. The fact that she paid Firm 7 is supported by her Tesco credit card 
statement which shows Firm 7 and not Firm 4. So clearly there is a fourth party here and so 
DCS appears on the face of it to not be in place.
However the Act also provides under Section 187 that consumer credit agreement shall be 
treated as entered into under pre-existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if 
it is entered into in accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
And subsection 4 states goes on to explain that persons are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
And Associates are tightly defined in section 184 of the Act. This definition includes:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a)if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons 
who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the 
other.
Our Investigator considered Firm 4 and Firm 7 to be Associates due to an individual being 
involved in both firms. Ill call this person Person X. Tesco have said that this isnt made 
out. And I think this issue is crucial here because if Firm 4 and Firm 7 arent Associates 
under the terms of the Act then Tesco cannot be held responsible for Mrs Es losses 
irrespective of whether breach of contract or misrepresentation is made out.
Tesco has said:
the individual (Person X) was in no shape or form a controller of (Firm 4) and (Firm 7). And, 
what you've presented to us does not demonstrate (Firm 4) and (Firm 7) were associates. 
We can't accept that this passes the associate's test and we don't think it's fair or reasonable 
to reach the conclusions that you did, given that the role of FOS is to determine what is fair 
and reasonable to both parties - not just to the customer.
So this decision turns on this. But before I explain my thoughts on the matter I should 
observe that Tesco has not pointed to any evidence it has gathered on this matter. It has 
been furnished with evidence weve relied upon but chosen not to provide evidence on the 
matter that it has sourced or indeed any detailed argument about what has been provided by 
this service to it. It has agreed with the application of the Associates test, it just considers 
that Person X hasnt been shown to be a controller of Firm 4 and Firm 7 and hence the firms 
arent Associates.
So does Person X make Firm 4 and Firm 7 Associates?
In making findings in decisions such as this, the test Im required to follow is the civil test of 
balance of probabilities, so whether something is more likely than not. Ive considered the 
following evidence, in drawing my conclusions here.The commercial registry certificate issued by the Companies House equivalent in the 
country where Firm 7 is registered shows Person X as the only person listed under 
the list of management of that company. It gives the total capital holding amount of 
Firm 7 and it lists Person X as being a partner and the holder of that entire capital 
holding. No other individuals are listed in relation to Firm 7 in such terms. I have not 
seen any persuasive evidence through our investigations or submitted by Tesco 
which is contrary or inconsistent with this. So, I consider it persuasive that Person X 
is a Controller of Firm 7.
The Gazette in this country (the official record of such orders and notices) lists Firm 4 
is for winding up and associated notices. Firm 4 isnt a UK company and is registered 
in a country where the names of controllers of the company are not made public. 
Accordingly, no names are listed on the winding up order. However, the Gazette 
does give a registered company address for Firm 4 in the UK in these notices. On the 
CCJ register there is a listing of Person X who is listed registered at the same 
company address as given in the winding up order for Firm 4. So, we have a clear 
link between Person X being linked with the same company address of Firm 4.
Ive considered Firm 4s website. It has been taken down but historic versions of it 
are still available. The website shows it has an office at the same address in the UK 
as Ive described above. It also shows another address as listed on the Firm 4 
contract that Mrs E agreed to and has supplied to this service. So, this shows that the 
contract Mrs E signed is registered to the same address on Firm 4s website which 
shows the same UK address that Firm 4 and Person X are linked to.
Since 2009 domain owners of websites where Firm 4s website is registered have 
been hidden. However, prior to that the information about domain owners is available 
and I can see it was owned by a company. Ive searched that Countrys equivalent of 
Companies House and I can see that Person X is listed as one of two Joint Legal 
representatives of that company that owned Firm 4s website.
In January 2018 the press reported a case at County Court which concerned Firm 4. 
It is reported that Person X was a witness before the court and was examined. 
During this examination it was reported that Person X disclosed he was a director of 
Firm 4.
So in summary its clear to me that Person X was a controller of the company that 
owned Firm 4s website, is registered at the address of Firm 4s UK address and has 
described himself as a director of Firm 4. 
Having considered all of the above and noting Tesco hasnt provided any contrary 
evidence Im satisfied on balance that Person X was a director and hence controller of 
Firm 4. I am also satisfied on balance he was a controller of Firm 7. And accordingly Im 
satisfied on balance that Firm 4 and Firm 7 were Associates as per the definition 
provided under the Act. It therefore follows that as theyre Associates here and Mrs E 
contracted with Firm 4 but paid Firm 7 that the DCS relationship is found to be intact and 
accordingly Tesco can be liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by Firm 
4.
Breach and Misrepresentation
Mrs E has told us she was told by Firm 4 that shed have a claim against her Timeshare 
company under the law in that country and that Firm 4 could dispose of the timeshare on 
her behalf. She has provided a document entitled potential compensation claims which 
suggests she could be entitled nearly £33,000. She has also provided the contract 
between her and Firm 4 which sets out that the service Firm 4 provides is the service of 
pursuing compensation claims on the basis of mis-selling and misrepresentation of 
timeshares and assisting in the disposal of unwanted timeshares. Since then Mrs Es timeshare agreement was clearly ended by the timeshare company itself. There is no 
persuasive evidence of Firm 4 being involved in that agreement ending.
We have found no persuasive evidence of any court action being taken in relation to this 
claim for compensation being started in the appropriate jurisdiction. Nor indeed any 
persuasive evidence of wrongdoing by this timeshare company on which to mount such 
a claim. Nor is there any persuasive evidence regarding the supposed breaches of local 
rules that Firm 4 represented to Mrs E regarding the original sale of her timeshare to her 
and supposed claim for redress it said she was entitled to. There is no persuasive 
evidence of Firm 4 providing either service to Mrs E that it represented to Mrs E when 
they met and entered into this contract. 
I note that there was some initial letters she received soon after entering this contract 
purporting to be involved in the matter, however I consider those not to be persuasive 
evidence any material services being provided to her. It appears they were (either 
wittingly or unwittingly) representations which had the effect of delaying Mrs Es 
appreciation that all was not as it appeared to be with Firm 4.
In short Im satisfied on balance the contract has been breached as no material service 
has been provided and Firm 4 went into winding up procedures some time ago. So it 
cannot provide this service now. Furthermore Im satisfied that the representations made 
to Mrs E when she agreed to this contract were false and she relied on these to her 
detriment (namely the payments she made). I think had she not been misrepresented to 
about the potential of a successful claim and not misrepresented to about exiting her 
existing timeshare and the services she was to be provided, she wouldnt have entered 
the contract or paid the sums she did that day.
I also note that Tesco hasnt contended that there was no breach and no 
misrepresentation here when provided with those findings by the Investigator. Tesco has 
focussed on whether DCS is made out through the application of Associates and 
Controller. In those arguments it has said:
we don't think it's fair or reasonable to reach the conclusions that you did, given that the 
role of FOS is to determine what is fair and reasonable to both parties - not just to the 
customer.
For S75 to apply and thus Tesco to be potentially liable there has to be pre-existing 
arrangements in place, such as Tesco being part of the card network that was used 
here. Mrs E isnt in that pre-existing arrangement, Tesco is. So it seems fair to me that if 
Tesco wishes to say DCS is not made out in a specific case, it ought to provide evidence 
that DCS isnt made out. Im not persuaded it is fair to expect all consumers, who by dint 
of the relationship between them and card providers are one step removed from these 
pre-existing arrangements to have to demonstrate DCS is in place in every such 
complaint. And as the onus is often on consumers to demonstrate (on balance of 
probabilities) either breach or misrepresentation, then I think if businesses wish to argue 
DCS isnt in place then they should properly consider, argue and importantly evidence 
there position on this considering their crucial position in such pre-existing arrangements. 
Tesco, in this case, hasnt put forward any persuasive evidence regarding who was 
controlling Firm 4 or Firm 7 from the relevant public bodies in any of the jurisdictions 
which are involved here, or other types of persuasive evidence for that matter. Ive not 
seen any significant evidence that its original investigation considered whether Firm 7 
was either an Associate of Firm 4 (or a payment processor or other form of outsourced 
financial transaction service provider) when Mrs E made her claim to it. I think if it had done such investigation at the time it would have discovered the evidence 
this service has since provided to it. And if it had done this I think it likely it would have 
realised that Firm 4 and Firm 7 were associates (in the absence of any yet unseen 
persuasive contradictory evidence) and would have redressed the matter at that point. 
So Im far from persuaded that Tesco has been treated unfairly here by the conclusions 
of the Investigator or these my conclusions.
Accordingly and in summary I think Mrs E hasnt been treated fairly here and I think 
Tesco should compensate her for her loss under s75 of the Act and for the reasons Ive 
set out above. 
Putting things right
As such I direct Tesco to:
Re-work the credit card account as though the amount of £917.89 had been refunded 
from the point Tesco Bank declined the section 75 claim, and for this to include 
refunding any interest, fees or charges which Mrs E incurred as a result of this 
transaction remaining on her account.
oIf the re-working results in a credit balance, then Tesco Bank should pay 8% 
simple interest per year on any credit balance from the date it would have 
arisen to the date it would have ceased to exist
Refund Mrs E the payment of £5,000 she made by bank transfer, as it relates to the 
above transaction, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date the section 75 
claim was declined (and she should have had her money back) to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any negative credit file information it has logged on her file
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from any interest amounts it pays 
here. Tesco must give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank. I direct it 
to redress the matter as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman