DRN-4429783
The complaint
Mr A complains that he hasnt been given a replacement phone by American International 
Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK (AIG) after he made a claim under his gadget 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a gadget insurance policy underwritten by AIG. Following the loss of his phone, 
Mr A made a claim.
AIG sent Mr A a replacement phone, but Mr A says he didnt receive it, so he wants AIG to 
send another replacement. 
AIG looked into things and confirmed with the delivery company that it had been delivered to 
the address that Mr A provided. Mr A says it was given to someone else and he didnt 
receive it. However, as AIG was satisfied it had been delivered, they didnt agree to send 
Mr A another phone.
As Mr A remained unhappy with AIGs position, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He was 
satisfied that the delivery company had delivered the device to the address Mr A had given, 
and he hadnt given them any special instructions or told AIG that it was a shared address 
with another business. The investigator also noted that Mr A had said hed spoken to the 
person who had taken the delivery, but it had gone missing after that. So, he was satisfied 
that it had been delivered in line with the address Mr A gave and didnt recommend AIG do 
anything further.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr A, Ive reached the same outcome 
as our investigator.
When Mr A made his claim, he did this online on a self-service portal. He gave the address 
for delivery, and it is that address which the replacement device was sent to. However, this 
was a multi-occupancy shared address with a business. The delivery was made to the 
business address and received, but not by Mr A. 
Mr A said that after he was notified of the delivery, he located the person who had received 
the parcel, and they said theyd left it in a box for Mr A. However, the package was no longer 
there when he checked.
Mr A says it shouldnt have been left with someone else to start with, and it should only have 
been him who was able to receive it. So, he says AIG should send him another phone.
However, Mr A hadnt told AIG that this was a shared multi occupancy address, also shared 
with a business. And he hadnt given any special instructions. No signature was required for 
delivery and identification is only checked if required for delivery of something age restricted. 
The package was delivered to the address Mr A provided, received and that person who 
received it placed it somewhere else where it later went missing from.
As AIG arranged to send the device to the address Mr A had provided, werent given any 
details about the shared address, and it was received at this address and later went missing, 
I dont think theyve acted unfairly. With this in mind, I wont be directing AIG to send Mr A 
another replacement phone.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman