The complaint
Miss B and Mr H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mishandled their 
application to effect an extension of the lease term on their property.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on setting out the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
While I appreciate Miss B and Mr H's solicitor contacted Natwest on 19 September
2018, the bank could not ascertain the solicitors credentials through the Law Society
website, which they were required to do before they could proceed any further with
the request. It was then not until 7 December 2018 that Natwest received further
correspondence that enabled them to complete the necessary checks on the
solicitors in order to proceed.
Once the solicitors had been verified, Natwest sent them a letter on 7 December
2018 stating what criteria they would need to satisfy before they could continue with
the application. They asked the solicitors to  confirm that you will act on our behalf in
this matter, that no conflict of interest will arise in you acting for the parties, and also
that our security will not be affected adversely by these changes.
It was not until their letter of 15 January 2019 that the solicitors confirmed in writing
that Natwests security would not be adversely affected by the changes. Up until that
point, the solicitors had only said that the Deed of Substituted security will enhance
your security.
Im satisfied that this does not meet the criteria set out by Natwest. And given that the 
criteria had been clearly set out, I do not consider they had acted unreasonably by
declining to proceed with the application until they received the necessary
assurances/confirmation they required. And I note that once Natwest received what
they needed, the request was processed within a few days. As such, I do not think
they can fairly be held responsible for the length of time it took for the application to
be finalised.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
DRN-1901832Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman