DRN-3858121
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr F complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked their account and returned 
£97,430.72 to the sender of the funds.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr F had a joint account with Barclays. Mr F also had an account in his sole 
name. 
In January 2021, Mrs C and Mr F received a payment of £97,430.72 into their account. But 
Barclays received a report that this payment was fraudulent. It blocked the account and 
carried out an investigation. On 23 February 2021, Barclays removed the £97,430.72 and 
arranged to return this payment to the sender. At the same time, Barclays removed a further 
£22,474.05 from the account.
Following its review, Barclays removed the restrictions on the account on 9 April 2021 and 
returned the £22,474.05 to the account in Mr Fs sole name on 10 May 2021.  Around this 
time, Mrs C and Mr F complained to Barclays and then referred the complaint to us.
Barclays looked at this. It said it was truly sorry for the experience Mrs C and Mr F had gone 
through, and said that the time it had taken to complete its investigation and remove the 
blocks was unacceptable. It offered to pay Mrs C and Mr F £300 to reflect the trouble and 
upset it caused.
On 9 June 2021, the sender paid Mrs C and Mr F again. This time, Mrs C and Mr F received 
a payment of £93,971.88. Mrs C and Mr F say the difference is because of changes to the 
foreign currency exchange rate.
Our investigator looked at all of this, and thought the complaint should be upheld. She 
recommended that Barclays pay Mrs C and Mr F simple interest to compensate them for the 
time they were out of pocket. This included interest on the £97,430.72 until they received the 
second payment, interest on the difference until the date they get this back, and interest on 
the £22,474.05 from 9 April until the funds were credited back to the account. Finally, our 
investigator recommended Barclays pay £500 to reflect the trouble and upset it had caused.
More recently, our investigator contacted Barclays to clarify that she also expected them to 
pay Mrs C and Mr F the difference between what they received in January and what they 
received in June, to reflect the currency exchange changes.
Barclays doesnt agree with the investigator. It says it wasnt in a position to verify Mrs C and 
Mr Fs proof of funds, and so the safest thing to do was to return the funds. It also says that 
any delay in receiving the funds once it had returned them was due to the sender or their 
bank.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays, like all financial businesses, is required to have processes and procedures in place 
to combat fraud and financial crime. This means that where it receives a report that a 
payment into an account may be fraudulent, it will need to look into things, and may need to 
restrict the account while it does this.
In this case, Barclays received a report that a payment into Mrs C and Mr Fs account was 
fraudulent. Barclays has told Mrs C and Mr F that it received this report from the sender of 
the funds. I appreciate Mrs C and Mr F wanted to know more. But where Barclays blocks 
and reviews accounts in these circumstances, it doesnt have to give reasons. Based on 
everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mrs C and Mr Fs account.
Barclays then carried out its review. Id expect it to complete the review in a timely manner. 
Barclays says it normally aims to complete the review within 15 working days  or by 1 
March 2021. Here Barclays didnt complete the review until 9 April 2021. That said, I can see 
some of the delay was because Mrs C and Mr F were out of the country at a time, and so 
werent in a position to respond to letters. Equally, though, I see Mr F told Barclays this in 
February  and once he was able to respond to Barclayss requests for information, he was 
able to provide information in connection with the payments.
Finally, Ive considered Barclayss decision to return the funds to source and remove further 
funds from Mrs C and Mr Fs account. Id only expect Barclays to return these funds if it was 
satisfied that they werent entitled to them. I note that Mr F contacted Barclays once he 
discovered the block to explain that hed recently sold a property overseas and that the 
money hed received related to that. But it doesnt appear Barclays asked Mrs C or Mr F for 
anything further to prove their entitlement to these funds before they returned them to the 
sender.
Ive thought about what Barclays has said about that. It says it had no real way of verifying 
Mrs C or Mr Fs version of events. It thinks the least risky option was to return the funds, on 
the basis that if the payment were genuine Mrs C or Mr F could have been able  as 
occurred here  to recover these from the sender.
I dont find what Barclays has said persuasive. I still think it would have been reasonable for 
Barclays to have asked Mrs C and Mr F for their version of events before it decided what to 
do with the funds. The report, for instance, might have been mistaken. The payment was 
consistent with the sale of a property. And when Barclays asked, in March, for Mrs C and Mr 
F to provide information in connection with the sale, they were able to provide a certified 
copy of the notarial act relating to the property. The purchaser of the property was described 
as the daughter of someone with the same name as the victim, and included details of both 
the property and that the first instalment would be a payment of US$135,000. The document 
is signed and stamped by a notary and Mrs C and Mr F have provided a translation signed 
and stamped by a government registered certified translator. And Im satisfied that had 
Barclays asked for this in February 2021, theyd have been able to provide these at that 
time.
Barclays says that it has no way of verifying the authenticity of this document. But given the 
contents of the document, Barclays could reasonably have taken further steps  such as 
contacting the sending bank or asking Mrs C or Mr F for further information about this sale  
before it decided to return the funds. There was a real risk that Mrs C and Mr F would lose the proceeds of sale having already conveyed the property to the seller. The sender 
ultimately sent the funds again  so Im satisfied that had Barclays investigated matters fully 
before deciding to return the funds to source Mrs C and Mr F could either have 
demonstrated their entitlement to the funds or clarified matters with the sender. Because 
Barclays didnt, Mrs C and Mr F had the stress and worry of knowing whether or when theyd 
get these funds back.
Barclays withdrew a further £22,474.05 from the account. I see Barclays says it required 
proof from Mrs C and Mr F of their entitlement to these funds  and that at the end of March 
Mrs C and Mr F provided payslips. Barclays says these funds which wouldnt have been 
available to Mrs C and Mr F until it completed its review on 9 April 2021. But it says the 
funds should have been repaid at that point  but this didnt happen until 10 May. While I 
accept that Barclays may have needed further information from Mrs C and Mr F before it 
was satisfied they were entitled to these funds, Barclays hasnt given a reason for the delay 
between the completion of this review and the return of these funds in May. And again, it 
seems likely Mrs C and Mr F could have provided this information sooner had Barclays 
asked for it.
With all this in mind, I uphold this complaint.
Ive gone on to consider what Barclays should do to put things right.
Im not satisfied Barclays acted fairly in returning the funds in February 2021. As a result, 
Mrs C and Mr F didnt receive the funds again until June 2021. At this point, currency 
exchange fluctuations meant that they got £93,971.88 instead of the £97,430.72 they got in 
January. If things had happened as they should have, this wouldnt have happened. 
Barclays should pay Mrs C and Mr F the difference, or £3,458.84.
Barclays should also pay Mrs C and Mr F simple interest (the rate is 8% simple a year) to 
compensate them for the periods they were out of pocket, both in respect of the proceeds of 
sale of the property and the additional amounts removed from their account. 
Ive considered Barclayss further comments. It feels that some of the responsibility for what 
happened lies with the sender. It received a report from the sender and felt bound to act on 
it. But Ive already explained why Barclays should have done more to satisfy itself that Mrs C 
and Mr F werent entitled to the funds. So this doesnt change my conclusions. 
Barclays also says that the sender could have returned the funds to Mrs C and Mr F sooner 
 in principle, the next day after the funds were returned. But I note that Mr F told Barclays in 
April 2021 that the sender denied having received the funds back. I further note that Mrs C 
and Mr F wanted written confirmation from Barclays that the same thing wouldnt happen 
again if the sender re-sent the funds  they say the sender wanted assurance that the issue 
with the account had been resolved. In the circumstances, I dont think thats unreasonable. 
In any case, nothing Ive seen suggests that Mrs C or Mr F delayed in seeking recovery of 
the funds. Its foreseeable that returning the funds as Barclays did might lead to delays 
recovering the money later. I dont think it would be fair for Mrs C or Mr F to lose out 
because of something Barclays did wrong.
Finally, I note the investigator recommended interest from 23 February in respect of the 
property sale funds, and from 9 April in respect of the rest of the funds. But Barclays accepts 
it should have completed its review by 1 March 2021. I agree. I recognise Barclays would 
have needed some time to complete any review  but equally, its likely Barclays could have 
completed its review by then had it asked Mrs C and Mr F for information sooner. So if things 
happened as they should have done, I think Mrs C and Mr F would have regained access to their account by 1 March  and so that is the date Barclays should use to start the award of 
simple interest. (I acknowledge that in practice this will only make a very small difference 
compared to the investigators recommendation.)
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs C and Mr F:
£3,458.84, which is the difference between the amount they received in January 
2021 and what they got when they were paid again in June 2021.
simple interest on the £3,458.84 from 9 June 2021 until Mrs C and Mr F get this 
money back.
simple interest on the £97,430.72 from 1 March 2021 (when Barclays says it would 
have completed its review) until 9 June 2021 when Mrs C and Mr F got the second 
payment.
simple interest on the £22,474.05 from 1 March 2021 until 10 May 2021.
Im satisfied Mrs C and Mr F would have found what happened stressful. Barclays should 
pay Mrs C and Mr F £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused.
If HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays to deduct tax from any interest it should send 
Mrs C and Mr F a certificate setting out how it calculates this should it want one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman