DRN-3775471
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt increase the interest rate on his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr L opened a cash ISA account with Sainsburys. Several times over the 
following years the interest rate was reduced and Mr L received a letter letting him know the 
details each time.
In mid 2022 Mr L expected the interest rate on his ISA to increase due to changes in the 
wider economy. He saw that the rate hadnt increased so complained.
Sainsburys looked into what happened and said that on this account they dont 
automatically increase interest rates, but they do advertise them on their website. However 
they did then increase the rate on Mr Ls account to their latest offering.
Mr L came to our service as he didnt think not telling him about better interest rates was 
right as other banks had acted differently. One of our Investigators considered things and 
whilst appreciating Mr Ls frustration thought the terms and conditions of the account had 
been applied correctly. Mr L disagreed saying he felt this was malpractice and that he had 
lost several hundred pounds. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr L feels about what happened, and I want to assure him that 
Ive read and considered everything thats been provided even if dont mention it in detail. 
Ive summarised some parts of the complaint which reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
When dealing with our Investigator Mr L said: I took out their product on the understanding 
that a variable rate interest ISA would reflect decreases AND increases by definition of the 
term Variable Rate.   
I can see why Mr L thought this and can understand his frustration that this isnt how the 
account worked. However I must consider how the account does actually work and how 
Sainsburys made Mr L aware of this.
When opening the account Mr L was sent a welcome letter which included the terms and 
conditions. In section 4 titled Interest under the sub-heading Rates the letter said: We 
may offer different interest rates for new accounts. The interest rate on your account wont 
automatically change to match the new rates. And thats what has happened here.
Because any rates offered on new accounts didnt apply to Mr Ls account I dont 
Sainsburys made any errors. I can of course see why Mr L feels the account should work 
differently, and that he thinks hasnt received the interest he thinks is due, however the terms 
and conditions say that this account wont automatically match any new rates on offer.
I think its important to say, as did our Investigator, that the Financial Conduct Authority is the 
regulator and its their role to regulate businesses. Our role is to resolve individual disputes 
and not to tell businesses to change their policies and procedures. 
After carefully considering all of the information Im satisfied Sainsburys acted fairly and 
reasonably when administering the account and did so in-line with the terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman