DRN-2770459
The complaint
Mrs C and Mrs D are unhappy that Santander UK Plc allowed one signatory to withdraw 
funds from their account when the mandate of the account requires two signatures.
What happened
Mrs C and Mrs D hold a joint account with their mother, Mrs Q. Mrs Qs son, Mr Q, is acting 
as Power of Attorney for Mrs Q. The account mandate is that two signatures are required to 
withdraw from the account. On 14 May 2019, Mr Q withdrew £10,000 from the account and 
on 15 May 2019, he removed a further £20,187.43. In June 2019, Santander agreed it made 
a mistake and refunded the money to the account. In December 2019, the money was 
removed from the account as Santander received further evidence which indicated that Mrs 
Q, the third account holder had benefited from the withdrawn funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied I can make a fair 
decision about the aspects of the complaint that impact Mrs C and Mrs D only, and that 
doing so wont prejudice or impact the other account holder. So, I think I can fairly consider 
Mrs C and Mrs Ds complaint. 
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Santander made a mistake in allowing Mr Q to remove funds from the 
account without a second signatory. What is in dispute is how Santander should put things 
right for Mrs C and Mrs D.
I know Mrs C and Mrs D consider that but for Santanders actions, the money would still be 
in the account. I do appreciate Mrs C and Mrs Ds frustration. But a proper examination of 
this point would mean questioning third parties including Mr Q - about their financial 
circumstances, and the wider circumstances of the overall matter. 
This is an informal service and I can only decide the complaint between Mrs C and Mrs D 
and the bank. I cannot require a third person who is not party to the complaint to give the 
evidence that I would need to fairly decide ownership of the money he withdrew and for 
whose benefit it was used. Mrs Q may have benefitted from the funds and could doubly 
benefit if an amount representative of the funds was credited back to the account. I 
appreciate Mrs C and Mrs Ds strength of feeling about this. But I am satisfied that this is not 
a matter I can fairly decide based only on what Mrs C and Mrs D have said.
I am, however, able to direct Santander to compensate Mrs C and Mrs D for the distress and 
inconvenience that this matter has caused them. Santander has already paid Mrs C and Mrs 
D £293.32 for the time, inconvenience and branch visits and frustration caused. I have 
considered carefully whether this is a fair and reasonable offer.
Compensation is not intended to punish Santander, or  for the reasons I have already 
explained - reflect the potential losses Mrs C and Mrs D say have arisen. I find that an 
amount of £293.32 is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of this complaint  
and in line with awards we have made in complaints with similar features. So, I wont be 
asking Santander to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman