DRN-1666532
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Mrs S, who is represented by a third party, has complained that she was sold the PPI when 
she took it out with a Dorothy Perkins store card in October 1997. The credit facility was 
provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the company which is now 
responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called 
AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
Background
The store card was taken out in the store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. 
Mrs S says she wasnt given any choice about taking the PPI, it wasnt properly explained to 
her and she didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs S disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S says AXA made a recommendation that she should take out the PPI. Weve seen a 
number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the company involved 
to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. From what we know, its 
much more likely that it was up to Mrs S to make her down decision about whether to buy 
the cover. But AXA still needed to give her enough information so she could make an 
informed choice. 
We know consumers were asked to fill out an application form which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what 
the applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs S filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to place a tick 
next to the option to buy PPI cover. I see that Mrs S ticked at this point on the form. So I 
think this suggests that she did want PPI when she applied for her card. I also think she 
would have had access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above, so I think she 
consented to the PPI cover when she signed at this point. I think shed have been equally 
free to not have asked for the PPI on the application form. AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mrs S to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs S had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Ive checked that Mrs S was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies.
Mrs S told us she had benefits from her employer, being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 
months at half pay. She also told us she had some savings. I understand why shes told us 
this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Mrs S says she enjoyed. But these 
dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Mrs S also told us she had had life and critical illness cover but these would have been of 
use only for specific purposes whereas PPI would assist her with meeting her monthly card 
payments. 
All the policy benefits wouldve been available in addition to any other means Mrs S had in 
place at the time, such as the support she mentioned would be available from her family. Its 
also important to keep in mind that whilst having the offer of help from family members is 
reassuring, it isnt a guarantee of support being there when its needed as financial 
circumstances can easily change for the worse. And having the cover would also have 
avoided the need for her to dig into her limited savings. 
The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. The policy also 
included life cover as well as a purchase cover benefit. 
So although I cant say why Mrs S decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Ss complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mrs S specifically selected the 
PPI. And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information wouldve 
changed how Mrs S acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman