DRN-4140617
The complaint
Mr M complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim under his 
home insurance policy. When I mention esure I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Mr M has a home insurance policy with esure covering his buildings and contents.
In July 2021 his home was damaged when water escaped from an upstairs pipe causing 
damage to the downstairs kitchen. 
esure agreed to cover the damage caused by the water and it appointed a company who Ill 
refer to as H to provide an initial response to Mr M.
The claim was to be settled in cash to Mr M, but he asked for H to continue with carrying out 
the works to repair his kitchen.
There was a series of delays in doing the work. Mr M complained to esure about these 
delays and it agreed to pay him £225 for his inconvenience.
As part of the works, H carried out some electrical work by replacing some sockets and 
lights in the kitchen which had been damaged by the water.
After the work was done, Mr M said that one of his kitchen appliances was tripping the 
fuses in his electrical system. H investigated why this was happening and found that the 
electrical system wasnt compliant with current standards. As such, it condemned the circuit 
in the kitchen. 
Mr M arranged for a third-party electrician to inspect it. They found a damaged cable behind 
one of the sockets, partially buried in cement, and reported that it could have been broken 
when H carried out the repairs. 
esure said it wasnt responsible for the state of the electrical system. The claim would cover 
the replacement of the sockets and lights, but not the replacement of the kitchens ring main 
which it said was already in a non-compliant state.
Mr M has since arranged and paid for the ring main to be replaced at a cost of £710.
Mr M wasnt happy with esures response and brought his complaint to this service. He asks 
that esure pay for the repair to the electrical system and finishing works including grouting, a 
floor joining strip and a section of poor ceiling plasterwork. Esure has confirmed that these 
issues can be considered under this complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said she thought esures offer 
of £225 compensation was fair and reasonable. But she thought esure were responsible for 
the damage to the cable, so it should pay 50% of the cost of the remedial work to fit a new 
ring main, and the consequent repairs that would be needed to the walls. Part of Mr Ms 
claim was for a new carpet, the voucher for which had expired, so she also thought esure 
should renew the voucher.
esure didnt agree with the view. Because it didnt agree, Mr Ms complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Im minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, and Ill explain why because Im intending to 
reach a different decision from our investigator.  
I can see from the file that esures initial response was delayed. esure and its suppliers have 
already acknowledged that their service wasnt good enough and paid Mr M £225 
compensation. 
Ive looked into the reasons given by H for the delays which include examples of staff 
sickness and material shortage, but also because some of Hs staff effectively walked off the 
site without explanation. 
I can also see that some of the delay was caused by a problem with the kitchen tiles, which 
had been chosen by Mr M, and H agreed to remove and re-fit new ones he supplied. This 
involved a number of extra visits to resolve, which contributed to the delay.
esure also says it paid for damage to an appliance Mr M says it caused, although Mr M 
denied hed received this money.
Ive thought carefully about this and I think its fair for both parties to share some 
responsibility for the delays which were caused by a range of factors. It seems to me that Hs 
response was fair when there were problems with Mr Ms selection of tiles. 
Taking everything into account, I think the amount already offered by esure for Mr Ms 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would 
recommend. 
Damage to the electrical system
Ive read esures description of the work done to Mr Ms kitchen. In it, H describes the work 
needed to rectify the escape of water damage to the electrical system, which it says was 
limited to the sockets and lights. 
Its my understanding that H wouldnt normally expect to test the electrical system beyond 
checking that the items it had replaced under the claim were fitted and functioning correctly. 
Mr M has arranged for an electrician to inspect system, who reported:
During our repairs we found the ring to be broken due to a damaged cable we found 
buried under the cement which would have been impossible to find if new installation 
was not completed.
I think its clear from this report that H wouldnt have understood that the ring main was 
damaged, because it wouldnt reasonably need to inspect the electrical system to this extent 
simply to replace the socket and lighting.
So I dont think its reasonable to hold esure responsible for repairing or replacing the ring 
main. It seems clear to me that the electrical system in Mr Ms house wasnt meeting the 
appropriate standards before the water damage happened, so the cost of rectifying it should be Mr Ms responsibility. 
Mr Ms electrician also commented on a damaged wire in one of the sockets:
A wire was found to be damaged / cut. This was within the socket.
The cut could have been made when the recent repairs have been completed.
From the evidence I have, it seems to me that the socket was functional regardless of the 
cut wire otherwise Id have seen more information about this in Mr Ms electricians report. 
From the evidence I have, Its likely that the socket was working, so I dont think esure need 
to do anything more. 
Mr M has since reported that the wire was rectified when his electrician made the repairs he 
paid for.
Finishing the kitchen
I can see from the file that works werent completed on Mr Ms kitchen, because the 
electrical problems were discovered before esure had finished carrying out the works to 
rectify the original damage from the escape of water. Its my understanding that this means 
there is some work required to finish the kitchen such as grouting the tiles that H fitted under 
the claim. 
Mr M engaged a third party electrician to replace the ring main and its my understanding 
that this means some work would have been carried out in the kitchen to fit new cables, 
which typically might mean removing tiles and creating channels in the walls to run the new 
cables through. 
Ive said above that I dont think its fair to ask esure to pay for the ring main to be replaced, 
so I also dont think its fair to ask esure to pay for the rectification work to cover the new ring 
main. 
But I do think esure should contribute the amount it would have paid to finish the previous 
work, such as grouting the tiles. esure said it costed this work at £33.12 inclusive of VAT.
Im also aware there are other aspects of Mr Ms complaint such an expired carpet voucher; 
a joining strip connecting the flooring; and an area of poor finish to the ceiling plasterwork. 
I asked esure about these and it replied that it would replace the expired carpet voucher.
esure also said the floor joining strip was on a step rather on the kitchen floor, and as such it 
wasnt part of the claim. 
Mr M has provided a photo of the poor finish on the ceiling and hes explained how it 
happened, which was when H carried out a repair to fill a hole it had previously made to refit 
the ceiling lights. Having considered this, I think its fair that esure arrange or pay for the 
work to be made good. 
I asked esure to estimate a cost for this and it said the ceiling repair would be £596.83 
including VAT. esure also said it had a lead-time of about eight weeks before it could find a 
contractor to carry out repairs.
I also asked Mr M to decide whether he wanted esure to carry out the repairs, or if he 
wanted to make those arrangements himself. He arranged for a quotation to carry out the remaining works at a total cost of £1,407.80, but this included a price for replacing tiles.
Summary
Ive thought carefully about this claim and the situation Mr M has been put in. I dont think 
esures service has been good enough during the claim and Mr M has been dealing with a 
range of issues as a result. 
But I also think there was an underlying issue with the electrical system in the kitchen which 
was found and identified as a result of the water leak, and I dont think it would be fair for 
esure to pay for rectifying this, which I dont think it could have reasonably been aware of.
I can see Mr M has arranged a quotation to fix the kitchen issues and I have said above that 
it seems to include replacing tiles, which I dont think would fall into the scope of this decision 
because esure has already replaced them and I cant reasonably hold it responsible for 
fixing the pre-existing issues with the electrical system.
Given the passage of time, I think its necessary to move swiftly to a decision. I am issuing 
this decision provisionally because I think esure should settle Mr Ms claim in cash so that he 
can make arrangements to have the repairs carried out. Ive asked him to tell me what hed 
prefer, but his answer wasnt definitive. But given that esure has said its lead time would be 
a minimum of eight weeks, I think the sensible option would be to agree a settlement.
I do think esure need to pay for the repairs to the ceiling and the grouting. I can see its total 
cost for those would be £629.95. Mr Ms quotation includes the buying and fitting of tiles so 
his quotation is higher.
So Id propose to settle Mr Ms complaint by asking esure to pay Mr M for the works that 
need to be done that I think esure are reasonably responsible for under the claim. I think its 
fair to say that Mr M might not be able to access the same rates and material costs that 
esure can, so I think its reasonable to adjust esures contribution. Its my thinking that a 
figure of £800 in total to fix the ceiling and grouting would be reasonable. Or Mr M can ask 
esure to fix the issues, but he should be aware of the likely lead-time.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Id ask that both parties liaise to bring this matter to a swift conclusion.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr M £225 for his inconvenience caused by the claims delays. Its my understanding that this may have been paid.
Replace the expired and unused carpet voucher.
Settle the remainder of the covered claim, which is grouting the tiles that were 
replaced from the escape of water claim, and the finishing work to the ceiling. Mr M 
can choose that esure carry out this work, or receive a payment of £800.00
esure Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman