DRN-4123725
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs O are unhappy that AWP P&C SA has delayed assessing a claim made under 
their travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr A and Mrs O travelled abroad with their children. Whilst away, they were involved in a car 
accident and needed medical attention. A claim was made on the policy which included the 
costs of medical treatment. Mr A and Mrs O say they posted a completed claim form to AWP 
along with supporting documents in or around September 2022.
They received an acknowledgement from AWP towards the end of September 2022 but 
unhappy about having heard nothing more, Mr A and Mrs O contacted our Service in early 
2023 raising concerns about the delay. 
We let AWP know about Mr A and Mrs Os concerns and it issued a final response letter 
dated February 2023. It apologised for the delays in getting back to Mr A and Mrs O. It said 
the claim couldnt be processed because of the lack of documentation. It provided a list of 
documents it required from Mr A and Mrs O to assess the claim.
Mr A and Mrs O said all documents requested had previously been provided. 
Our investigator upheld Mr A and Mrs Os complaint. He recommended AWP pay £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to reflect the delay in assessing the claim and 
overall poor service. He also recommended AWP urgently assess the claim and provide an 
outcome to Mr A and Mrs O. If it required any further information from Mr A and Mrs O, he 
asked that AWP clearly explain what further evidence was required.
AWP didnt respond. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. 
AWP accepts that it sent an acknowledgement to Mr A and Mrs O at the end of September 
2022. Our investigator asked it to confirm details of what Mr A and Mrs O had sent it which 
prompted the acknowledgment, but AWP hasnt been able to tell us.
Mr A and Mrs O say they sent AWP the completed claim form with supporting documents it 
initially requested. In the absence of AWP confirming what it received, I find Mr A and Mrs 
Os submissions to be plausible, persuasive and consistent. And on the balance of 
probabilities, I accept what they say. 
Particularly, as when asked by our investigator, AWP hasnt said which documents it still 
awaits from Mr A and Mrs O and before theyd contacted our service to raise their concerns, 
AWP hadnt raised any issues with Mr A and Mrs O about the documents theyd sent.
AWP accept there has been delays for which it apologised. It accepts Mr A and Mrs O 
shouldve been kept updated. I dont think AWPs apology is enough to put things right here. 
Im satisfied AWP should pay Mr A and Mrs O compensation in the sum of £200 to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience they experienced. Not only have they had to wait too long for 
an update on the progress of their claim, but theyve also had the worry of AWP saying they 
need to provide supporting documents Mr A and Mrs O have already sent. It hasnt been 
clear about what other documents it needs or confirmed which documents its received.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which our Service notifies AWP that Mr A and Mrs O accept 
this final decision, I direct AWP to:
pay Mr A and Mrs O £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
confirm the documents it received from Mr A and Mrs O, and acknowledged at the 
end of September 2022; and
Either assess the claim in line with the terms of the policy based on the information 
already provided by Mr A and Mrs O and inform them of the outcome to the claim. 
Or, alternatively, expressly set out in writing to Mr A and Mrs O the information it still 
needs from them to enable AWP to assess the claim (and upon receipt of this further 
information from Mr A and Mrs O promptly assess the claim).
My final decision
I uphold Mr A and Mrs Os complaint. I direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman