DRN-2123629
The complaint
Mr E complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr E took out nine loans with Lending Stream between July 2013 and June 2019 with a gap 
of more than four years between loans 2 and 3 and an eight month break between paying 
loan 3 and taking out loan 4.
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment*
1 19/07/2013 31/07/2013 6 80.00 £40.00
2 26/07/2013 31/08/2013 6 150.00 £110.20
3 17/04/2018 31/08/2018 6 150.00 £64.80
4 20/04/2019 6 200.00 £71.50
5 26/04/2019 6 150.00 £123.19
6 27/04/2019 6 150.00 £174.56
7** 13/05/2019 6 200.00 £236.21
8** 19/05/2019 6 150.00 £290.30
9** 02/06/2019 6 300.00 £389.36
*including combined repayments where loans overlap
** Lending Stream has already agreed to uphold these loans 
Mr E told us he was unhappy that Lending Stream continued to lend to him without doing 
due diligence on him. 
When Mr E complained to Lending Stream it thought that all the loans were affordable for 
him but said that taking into account the number of loans and the time between each loan, it 
mightnt have been a good idea to provide loans 7  9. 
So Lending Stream made an offer to uphold Mr Es complaint about these loans and to 
provide redress in the way wed expect a lender to do in these circumstances.
Mr E didnt feel this went far enough to resolve his concerns and so he asked us to look into 
his complaint. One of our adjudicators investigated the circumstances surrounding these 
loans.
Our adjudicator explained that hed considered that Mr E had effectively had three separate 
lending chains, given the breaks in lending between loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4. And 
that he wouldnt be looking at loans 7-9 as Lending Stream had already agreed to uphold 
Mr Es complaint about those loans.
So looking at loans 1-6, overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr Es circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have 
been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr E for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
He didnt think there was any reason why Lending Stream shouldve been prompted to 
check what Mr E had said about his financial situation. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr E had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. 
So he didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr E mainly feels that the adjudicator hasnt thoroughly investigated his complaint and that  
taking into account other cases and examples of decisions hes seen, including on our 
website, hed like his complaint to be looked at again. 
So the complaint comes to me to consider and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr E with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr E before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Im sorry Mr E feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or explain his 
view as well as he couldve done. Id like to reassure Mr E that Ive looked at the complaint 
afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Es 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says it relied on information Mr E provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies and it agreed to 
Mr Es applications after carrying out affordability checks. 
Lending Stream said it added up all his expenses and subtracted these from Mr Es monthly 
income to see if he had enough money left to be able to pay his Lending Stream loans 
comfortably. 
In coming to my decision, Ive looked at each of Mr Es Lending Stream loans and thought 
about what Lending Stream knew, or shouldve known, about his financial situation each 
time he applied to borrow. 
Mr E didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period September 2013  April 
2018. And there was another 8 months gap in-between Mr E paying loan 3 at the end of 
August 2018 before he took out loan 4 around three weeks or so into April 2019. 
So, like the adjudicator, I think its reasonable to think about Mr Es loans as three separate 
periods of borrowing. 
loan1 
I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend Mr E loan 1. As this was his first loan with 
Lending Stream, I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information Mr E 
provided. This suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr E didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr E provided or the information 
Lending Stream had, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve enquired further into 
Mr Es financial circumstances. 
So I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 1.loan 2
Mr E took out his second loan when he was still paying for his first loan  and he borrowed 
more money this time. But those arent sufficient reasons on their own for me to uphold the 
complaint. 
It looks like his income was substantial  in excess of £3000. And even after boosting his 
expenses (to allow a safety margin for error or any extra or unexpected costs he might have 
to pay) it still looked like the loan should be comfortably affordable for him.  
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Es circumstances overall and 
his loan history at that time with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Lending Stream to ask Mr E for the amount of information that would be needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan. 
This is why Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about loan 2. 
loan3
The gap in lending between Mr E paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3 seems long enough to 
me for Lending Stream reasonably to think that Mr E mightve put his finances in order 
during this period. This meant that when Mr E applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting 
over. So it was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as new borrowing and assess his 
lending requests accordingly.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for 
Mr E, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream 
think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr E. I think that the amounts that Mr E needed to repay 
on this loan wouldve seemed easily affordable compared with the take home pay hed 
declared and what hed told Lending Stream about his expenses. Even after Lending Stream 
had taken into account what it looked like he was spending on other credit, this shouldve left 
Mr E with ample disposable income to cover the repayments on loan 3. 
And given what was apparent about his circumstances I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr E for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lending Stream to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr E has sent me. So if that wasnt information that Mr E told Lending 
Stream about, then Lending Stream wouldnt have known about it. And I cant fairly say that 
Lending Stream shouldve known about it. 
So I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 3.
loan 4 
The gap in lending between Mr E paying loan 3 and taking out loan 4 was long enough to my 
mind for Lending Stream to treat this as the start of a new chain  and so think about this 
loan as number one in this loan chain (rather than the fourth loan in a row). 
And I think its fair to say this loan looked like it shouldve been affordable for Mr E  his 
monthly income was recorded as £2,750  and his expenses worked out at a little over 
£1,200. So this ought to have left Mr E with ample money to make the loan repayments.  
I dont think Lending Stream had any reason to think it needed to ask any more in-depth 
questions or check what Mr E was saying about his financial situation and the information it 
relied on didnt give any indication that hed find it hard to pay this loan in a sustainable way.So I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 4.
loan 5 
Mr E took out loan 5 less than a week later and when he was still paying loan 4  but there 
wasnt anything to suggest he was having money problems. Although he told Lending 
Stream he was now spending more on other credit that he had been before, overall his 
financial situation looked like it was more or less unchanged. So I dont think Lending Stream 
wouldve seen anything that ought to have made it think that it needed more information 
about Mr Es financial circumstances before agreeing to lend again or that it shouldnt have 
provided loan 5. 
So I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 5.
loan 6
Mr E took out this loan the very next day after starting loan 5 - so he was now paying three 
Lending Stream loans. But the combined repayment amount was well within the affordability 
figures Lending Stream had worked out based on what Mr E had told it and the information it 
had gathered about his finances. As far as I can see from what Lending Stream recorded for 
Mr E, he appears to have still been on a high monthly income and his expenses were 
relatively modest compared to his take home pay. 
Repeated borrowing can be a sign of someone becoming reliant on this sort of borrowing. 
And there does come a point where repeated borrowing probably indicates that a person has 
become dependent on taking out high cost short- term loans. And that lending would be 
unfair because it wasnt being used for the purpose it was intended for - to help with 
temporary or unexpected money problems.
But I cant fairly or reasonably say that Lending Stream shouldve realised that lending to 
Mr E had now become unfair by loan 6. This was effectively only his third loan in this chain 
of borrowing  and it looked like it should be easily affordable for him.  
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 6.
I dont need to say more about loans 7-9 except that I think Lending Stream is right to uphold 
Mr Es complaint about these loans. 
Im sorry if these loans have caused problems for Mr E  particularly given the money 
problems hes now having to deal with. And I can appreciate that his circumstances werent 
fully reflected in the information that Lending Stream relied on. But, I dont think that 
proportionate checks wouldve required Lending Stream to ask Mr E any more in-depth 
questions than it did or to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to 
verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. I think its 
reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to decide Mr Es lending applications 
based on the information it had available at the time. And its lending decisions dont seem 
unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when deciding whether to provide 
these loans.  
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say Lending Stream did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Mr E. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr E said about the way hes seen that other complaints 
have been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I hope that setting out my reasons as Ive done helps to 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream has confirmed that its offer (set out in its final 
response letter to Mr E) to re-work Mr Es account and amend his credit file, is still valid. If 
Mr E wishes to accept Lending Streams offer to settle his complaint he should contact 
Lending Stream direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman