DRN-2533312
The complaint
Mr C has complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) didnt offer a general refund on 
his motor insurance policy due to the Covid 19 pandemic. Mr C has also complained that 
when he asked to reduce the mileage on his policy, esure requested an additional premium.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy on in May 2019 which referred to anticipated mileage of between 
3,001 and 4,000 miles per year. He called esure in May 2020 to ask about reducing his 
mileage to between 2,001 and 3,000 miles per year, but he was told he would need to pay 
an additional premium to do so. Mr C didnt make the change at that time.
Mr C called esure again in May 2020 as hed become aware that other insurers were offering
refunds on insurance policies because of the Covid-19 pandemic. esure explained that it 
wasnt offering refunds to policyholders on a general basis as this wasnt esures policy at 
this time. It mentioned that it was offering payment holidays and more flexibility to suspend 
and reduce cover which could lower premiums.
As Mr C felt that the situation was unfair, he raised a formal complaint. esure responded on 
the issue of the general refund but didnt reply to the specific mileage reduction issue. As Mr 
C was unhappy with the response, he asked our service to investigate the complaint.
The investigator appreciated why Mr C would have expected a refund to be paid as the 
mileage was being reduced, however she noted that it was not always the case that a 
percentage change to a variable figure resulted in a refund. From a review of the information 
provided, she concluded that esure had followed the industry rules and treated Mr C the 
same as any other customer with the same circumstances as himself.
The investigator was also satisfied that esure didnt have to offer a general refund when Mr 
C requested one in May 2020. She noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued 
guidance to insurers in June 2020 in relation to product value in the light of Covid 19. The 
investigator included a link to a publication relevant to this point. This allowed insurers until 
December 2020 to consider whether and how coronavirus may have materially affected the 
value of their insurance policies. She concluded that contact in May 2020 was before the 
guidance was published and therefore esure didnt have to formally complete a review at 
that time. She said that she was aware that other insurers had completed a review but she 
could only look at what esure had to do. 
Because of this, she concluded that she couldnt ask esure to do anything more. Mr C 
remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint however and the matter has now been 
referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ombudsman, Im required to consider whether esure has acted fairly and reasonably in 
its handling of this matter, and I reach a judgment on the balance of probabilities. In this 
case, I concur with the investigators conclusions.
Firstly, I would explain that the FCA doesnt regulate the prices that insurers charge or the 
methods they may use to calculate a price, so that the price an insurer sets is its own 
commercial decision. In the circumstances, this service doesnt look into esures method for 
assessment of risk or the premium it charges to cover a particular risk. Neither does it look at 
the amount charged when an adjustment to the policy is being made. Im able to decide if 
esure has treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in applying that method however. I would for 
instance expect Mr C to be treated in exactly the same way as other customers in the same 
situation.
I can appreciate it may seem illogical and unfair that the reduction of 1,000 miles produces 
an increase in premium. Ive seen information which esure has provided to the service to 
explain how it calculated the costs of Mr Cs policy with the reduced mileage. It explains that 
risk may be higher where customers annual mileage is lower. Im satisfied from studying this 
information that esure has treated Mr C fairly and impartially. I can see that its applied the 
same criteria when calculating the cost of Mr Cs insurance as it applies to all their other 
customers in the same position. For this reason, Im not asking it to do any more.
Ive also considered whether esure acted fairly and reasonably by not providing a general 
refund, as other insurers had, when Mr C called in May 2020.
The FCA guidance issued in June 2020 asked insurers to assess how Covid 19 may have 
materially affected the value of their insurance policies. The guidance states; This guidance 
does not create an expectation that firms should reassess the value of policies at a policy 
level because of coronavirus where claims are still generally possible but the likelihood of a 
claim may have changed, eg reduced car usage
Im satisfied that the FCAs guidance also allowed insurers until December 2020 to consider 
whether and how Covid 19 may have materially affected the value of their insurance policies.
Mr Cs contact in May 2020 was before the guidance was published. esure didnt have to 
formally complete a review at that time. We are aware that other insurers had completed a 
review but we can only look at what esure had to do.
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that esure did complete a comprehensive 
review in June 2020 and I cant say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in not making a 
general refund in premium to Mr C. It treated all customers in this situation in the same 
manner.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, however I cant say that esure 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the operation of its policies in relation to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and I dont direct esure 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman