DRN-2869224
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs T says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her and the late Mr T PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ts 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and Mrs T 
chose to take it out. I say this because YBS has provided a copy of the paperwork 
available from the time the policy was sold. Mrs T completed an application form 
separate to the mortgage and signed the form separately. There was no mention of the 
policy being compulsory.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs T enough clear and timely 
information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that Mrs T chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs T  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs T if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs T would have 
declined the cover had YBS done anything more.
While the policy contained exclusions on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman