DRN-3025325
The complaint
Miss L complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited reported arrears to credit 
reference agencies after telling her that her account was on hold. She also complains about 
poor customer service in connection with this matter.
What happened
Miss L had a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital, under which she had to pay 
about £109 a month. She made no payments in December 2019 or in January 2020. These 
arrears were recorded on her credit file. She contacted Omni Capital  there is a dispute 
about in which of those two months this happened  and told it that she had lost her job in 
late 2019, and had no income. She says an agreement was reached to the effect that she 
could make no payments for a while, and she insists that she was told that her credit file 
would not be affected.
When Miss L later learned that her account had been reported as in arrears, she 
complained, but Omni Capital told her that her account and been on hold, and that the 
arrears had been reported correctly. (However, the further arrears that accrued from 
February 2020 were removed from her credit file due to Omni Capitals covid-19 policy.) 
Miss L says that her queries about this matter were ignored, and things were not explained 
to her properly.
Miss L brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. He said 
Miss L had not contacted Omni Capital until after the second missed payment, in January, 
and no agreement had been made between the parties until after that. He said that lenders 
have an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference agencies, and while he 
accepted that the missed payments had not been Miss Ls fault, Omni Capital had reported 
an accurate account history, and so he could not recommend that it remove the information 
it had reported.
Miss L asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said our investigator was mistaken about 
her not having contacted Omni Capital until January 2020, and said that she had done so in 
December 2019. She said she had depression and borderline personality disorder, which 
affected her ability to understand financial issues. She accepted that the information on her 
credit file was accurate, but she said that Omni Capital had given her incorrect information 
about the status of her account. If she had known that she was not in an arrangement to 
pay, then she would have borrowed money from her parents to make her payment on time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In Miss Ls complaint form, in which she first described this complaint to us, she said that 
she had contacted Omni Capital in January 2020. I have seen no evidence of any earlier 
contact in which she had told Omni Capital that she was unable to make payments, and so 
I think that January must be the right month. Omni Capitals contact notes indicate that she 
emailed Omni Capital on 3 January. That was after the January payment had been due. 
Therefore the account was already two months in arrears by the time Miss L approached 
Omni Capital, and Omni Capital had a duty to report those arrears to the credit reference 
agencies.
Any arrangement Omni Capital made with Miss L after that was only about the payments 
which were to be made in later months. Omni Capital has removed the arrears which 
accrued in and after February, in line with its coronavirus policy, but that does not mean that 
it has to remove older arrears, or that it misinformed Miss L about how it would treat those 
arrears.
Omni Capitals staff read Miss Ls email on 6 January. Omni Capital replied on the same day 
by email, and this is what it told her:
Unfortunately we are unable to hold any payments and any missed or late 
payments will have an impact on your credit file.
It then asked her to complete an income and expenditure (I&E) form, after which it would 
offer her a payment plan. Later in the same email, it added: Please be aware that any 
missed payments may affect your credit file. Based on the content of that email, I think that 
Omni Capital made the situation clear at the time.
In February Miss L went through the I&E form with Omni Capital on the phone, and made a 
payment of £10. She did not yet know how much she would be able to pay each month, and 
so no payment plan was set up. It was agreed that she would call back in a month. That 
suggests to me that she ought to have known that she did not have a payment plan, since 
no regular payment amount had been agreed.
No more payments were made until May. Since Miss L knew she had not made any 
payments in March and April, and there is no such thing as an arrangement to pay nothing at 
all, I think that if Miss L believed she had an arrangement to pay, then that was not because 
of anything Omni Capital had told her, but was just her misunderstanding. Consequently, 
I do not think that Omni Capital misinformed her about the situation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. But it is not necessary for her to reply, and if 
we do not hear from her then we will presume that she rejects it. If she does reply, we will 
not engage in any further discussion about the merits of this complaint. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman