DRN-2023045
 
The complaint
Mr D says Gain Credit LLC trading at the time as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan Mr D took out on 16 April 2016 for £300. Mr D agreed to repay 
this loan over six monthly instalments. The highest monthly repayment would have been 
£139.20. I understand it was not repaid and Lending Stream sold the debt on to a third party.
Lending Stream in its final response letter did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. It told Mr D (in 
summary) that it had made several checks and asked for his income and outgoings. For this 
loan, the money Mr D had available after expenses were subtracted was more than the 
amount needed to repay this loan and would still have left enough money to spend on other 
things.
Our adjudicator didn't think this matter should be upheld. She said taking into account the 
loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances and his history with the lender, 
she didn't think it would be proportionate to ask for more information which might have 
shown the lending was unsustainable or that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. She 
also told Mr D that there wasn't anything in the information which Lending Stream was aware 
of which might have meant it should have started verifying what Mr D was saying. 
Mr D disagreed with this view and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
He said Lending Stream didn't help to work through the debt. He says Lending Stream 
should have checked the loan amount before instantly giving it to him. Mr D also complains 
about the way he was treated once the debt had been sold on to the third party.
To be clear I am just looking at whether Lending Stream irresponsibly lent Mr D his loan. I 
am not making any findings about the way Mr D was treated by a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
When Lending Stream gave Mr D this loan it was early in the lending relationship. Mr D told 
Lending Stream that his income was £2,250. Mr D reported his expenditure as £874. Mr Ds 
credit file information showed that he had no accounts in default and no delinquent accounts. 
It was noted by the business that there were two active accounts but theres nothing in the 
business searches that might have alerted it to the fact that Mr D was having problems 
managing money. 
As Ive explained at this stage in the relationship, I think Lending Stream carried out 
proportionate checks. Theres nothing in the results which might have alerted it to any 
financial problems Mr D was having at that time. There was also nothing in the information it 
received that meant that it needed to start checking what Mr D was saying.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D but I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman