DRN-2248580
The complaint
Mr O complains that London Mutual Credit Union Limited (LMCU) made an error when 
transferring money from his account to a third party.
What happened
Mr O requested LMCU transfer £100 from his account to a friend. Several interactions took 
place between Mr O and LMCU, and there was some confusion about the transfer. A number 
of mistakes were made, and ultimately, Mr Os transfer didnt go through until the next day. 
This meant his friend didnt get the money when it was needed, so Mr O complained.  
He said LMCU had failed to carry out his request on time which meant he couldnt help his 
friend when she needed him to. He also said that he was promised a call back to explain 
why this happened, but instead of calling, LMCU sent him a text message. Hes also 
unhappy with the call wait times he experienced, and he said LMCU acted unprofessionally.
LMCU admitted it made errors with the transfer and apologised for not calling Mr O back 
when it had agreed to. It also said it was sorry for the call wait times hed experienced. But it 
explained that due the COVID-19 situation, it was experiencing a larger volume of calls than 
usual, and was directing customers to make contact by other means.
Unhappy with LMCUs response, Mr O brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Os complaint and agreed LMCU had made mistakes. And he 
recommended it pay Mr O £75 for the inconvenience it had caused in addition to its apology. 
LMCU didnt confirm whether it accepted or rejected the investigators findings. But Mr O felt 
more compensation was due. So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file, I can see that errors were made on LMCUs part, and I can see 
LMCU has accepted responsibility for this. The transfer went through a day later than it 
should have, and I think this would have had an impact on Mr O. So Ive gone on to look at 
whether I think any compensation is due to Mr O as a result. 
Mr O said he needed to transfer money to a friend, who was alone with a young child and 
needed to pay for electricity on her meter. I understand not receiving this money wouldve 
been stressful for Mr Os friend, but I can only consider any distress LMCU caused Mr O, 
and not that of a third party. That being said, I think LMCUs mistake wouldve also been 
stressful for Mr O. Hed promised to help his friend, and the money didnt reach her when it 
needed to. So for this, I think compensation is due.
When Mr O called LMCU to enquire about the transfer, he said he made three call attempts 
and was kept on hold for almost an hour on each occasion. LMCUs call records show Mr O 
called three times, and I can see that the wait times were longer than ideal. I appreciate this 
must have been frustrating.
But many businesses at this time were experiencing higher than normal demand during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. And this, understandably, has had an impact on the service theyve 
been able to provide. In light of this, I dont think it was unreasonable Mr O had to wait as 
long as he did, as I dont think a lengthy wait was unusual given the circumstances. So while 
frustrating, Im not upholding this part of Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O also said LMCU acted unprofessionally in the way it dealt with him. But having 
reviewed the file and listened to the calls between Mr O and LMCU, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this was the case. I appreciate errors were made by LMCU which Ive 
considered, but overall, I think LMCU acted professionally in the way it dealt with Mr O.
LMCU agreed an advisor would call Mr O back, but it only sent him a text message. Again, I 
can appreciate this would have annoyed Mr O, given the issues hed faced so far. But LMCU 
has accepted responsibility for this, and provided Mr O with an explanation. So again, Ill 
only be considering the impact this failing had on Mr O, when looking at the total amount of 
compensation I think he is due. 
Im satisfied LMCU caused Mr O distress by failing to execute his transfer correctly. And Ive 
already explained why I cant consider the distress LMCUs actions caused his friend. But 
Mr O promised to help a friend, and couldnt, due to LMCUs error  and I think this would 
have been distressing for him. I think LMCU added to that stress by not calling him back 
when it agreed to. So, in the circumstances, I think LMCU should compensate Mr O £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint, and London Mutual Credit Union Limited 
should pay Mr O £75 for this distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman