DRN-3632241
The complaint
Mr L and Miss T complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr L and Miss T made a claim under their policy to pursue a neighbour dispute for 
trespass regarding the erection of a fence within their propertys boundary line. 
DAS instructed its panel firm of solicitors, who Ill refer to as D, to assess the claim. And the 
solicitor appointed was satisfied it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. A letter of claim 
to the neighbours was drafted, which Mr L and Miss T agreed could be sent. But before this 
was done, they were informed that the solicitor would be going on long-term leave and their 
claim would be reallocated. 
The claim was reassigned to another solicitor at D, who was of the opinion that there were 
insufficient prospects of success. Based on this advice, DAS declined the claim. 
Mr L and Miss T felt this was unfair. They raised a complaint, which they brought to our 
service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. She said DAS were entitled to rely on Ds legal 
opinion and she was satisfied the claim had been declined in line with the policy terms. 
Mr L and Miss T didnt agree. They said D changed their opinion on prospects without 
explanation and based on no new information, which didnt seem fair. Theyve asked for the 
complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr L and Miss Ts policy say that a claim must have reasonable 
prospects of success which are defined as having at least 51% chance of winning. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, D assessed the claim as having at least 51% prospects. Based on this advice, 
DAS accepted the claim and cover was in place for D to draft the letter of claim. However, 
when the solicitor went on long-term leave, the case was reassigned. And the new solicitor 
wasnt satisfied the claim had reasonable prospects. 
I can appreciate why Mr L and Miss T would be disappointed when their claim had already 
been accepted. But the assessment of prospects is an ongoing consideration and prospects 
must be reasonable for the duration of the claim. 
Mr L and Miss T say no new information came to light which couldve altered the prospects 
on the case. Whilst I accept this is true, the second solicitor is more senior to the first and 
has more experience in a complex area of law called proprietary estoppel, which they 
considered to be a defence the neighbour could successfully rely on. 
Having read the second solicitors opinion, Im satisfied its properly written and well-
reasoned, and its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that DAS couldnt rely on it.
Rather, its up to Mr L and Miss T to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of their 
claim, at their own cost, if they want to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive 
then DAS should reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman