DRN-1804067
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance PLC (DGI) handled her claim 
and the delay replacing her washer dryer.
What happened
Ms M had an appliance protection policy with DGI which covered her washer dryer for 
repairs or replacement. She reported a problem with both the washing and drying functions 
and DGI attended to repair the appliance. Ms M reported a further fault with just the dryer 
and DGI attended again to replace parts. However, the dryer still didnt work so Ms M 
reported the problem again. 
DGI let Ms M know that the engineer wouldnt be attending the next appointment due to 
illness, so at that point DGI decided to replace the washer dryer.
Ms M complained to DGI because she thought it had taken too long trying to repair the 
appliance rather than just replace it. DGI apologised for the failed appointment and sent £50 
to Ms M as compensation for the inconvenience caused in the overall handling of her claim. 
Ms M didnt think the payment was enough to cover her financial losses, which included 
travel to, and payment for use of, a family members washer dryer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that DGI had arranged repairs 
promptly and he felt that the payment was a fair amount to recognise the inconvenience 
caused.
Ms M didnt agree. She said that DGI didnt test the dryer to check it was working, so 
repeated appointments over a busy holiday period caused her inconvenience.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Ms M was hoping for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The issues, here, are:
the time it took for DGI to replace Ms Ms washer dryer, and
the amount of compensation DGI offered.
DGI attended the first appointment three days after Ms M reported the fault with her washer 
dryer. It ordered parts and attended the repair appointment 12 days later, after the holiday 
period. At this point DGI had restored the washing function.
Five days later, Ms M reported that her dryer still wasnt working. DGI attended the 
appointment three days after that and ordered parts. It attended again 10 days later and 
fitted the new parts. Ms M says the engineer didnt check the dryer was working.
Ms M complained to DGI because the dryer still wasnt working. It arranged a further 
appointment and confirmed that it would replace the washer dryer if it couldnt fix the 
machine at that appointment. The engineer was unwell on the day of the appointment so 
DGI replaced the washer dryer.
In total Ms M was without her washing facility for two weeks and without her drying facility for 
just under eight weeks from the date she reported the fault to DGI. DGI replaced Ms Ms 
machine but she thinks it took too long.
Ive looked at Ms Ms policy to see whether DGI acted in line with the terms of the cover and 
in a reasonable timeframe. The policy states:
Replacements
1.In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair 
your product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one 
of a same or similar make and technical specification.
DGI has done what it said it would in line with the terms of the policy  it replaced the 
machine because it wasnt economical to repair it. The terms dont set out any information 
about how long it will take to replace an appliance, so Ive thought about whether the time it 
took DGI in these circumstances was reasonable. I think it was, because the terms dont say 
that replacement will be the first option, and in order to determine whether an appliance can 
be replaced I think its reasonable that it made repair attempts first. 
Thinking about the time DGI took for appointments and repairs, I cant see any significant 
delays. I can understand that for Ms M the waiting time wouldve been frustrating and 
inconvenient, especially over a busy time of year. But DGIs responsibility was for the repair 
and I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the inconvenience to Ms M of having a broken 
machine in the first place. From when Ms M reported the fault, to DGI replacing her washer 
dryer, eight weeks passed. During most of that time she had the use of her washer, so I 
think DGI did, at least, minimise the inconvenience. 
In summary, Im satisfied that DGI made and attended appointments within a reasonable 
timescale, and attempted to repair the washer dryer first, in line with the terms of the policy. I 
dont think it did anything wrong here.
Moving on to the matter of the compensation DGI offered, Ms M says it doesnt cover her 
financial loss or the inconvenience. As Ive said, DGI minimised the inconvenience when it 
repaired the washing function, so the inconvenience was limited to appointments and the 
loss of drying facilities. Ive seen that a family member, complaining to DGI on Ms Ms 
behalf, said that they charged her for using their washing facilities and Ms M incurred costs 
driving to and from their home. I think this is broadly equivalent to using a launderette. So 
Ive looked to see whether the policy covers any costs incurred of this type. It says:
 Exclusions
We shall not be liable for:
costs or loss arising from not being able to use your product (e.g. hiring a 
replacement), or incidental costs caused by breakdown or repairI think the policy is clear  it doesnt cover the financial loss Ms M is asking DGI to pay - and 
in the circumstances I think thats fair. I wouldnt expect DGI to provide an immediate fix or 
replacement machine so there would always have been a need for Ms M to use launderette 
type facilities.
In terms of the inconvenience Ms M experienced, I think DGI accepted that it contributed, in 
part. While I dont think the delays were significant, I can understand that Ms M was 
frustrated by the number of appointments needed. But I think the £50 DGI sent to Ms M is 
fair in the circumstances. Thats because the first set of appointments resulted in DGI 
restoring the washing function, and the final appointment resulted in a replacement washer 
dryer. So, the appointments, in the main, were appropriate. I wont be asking DGI to pay any 
more. I note that Ms M says she destroyed the cheque. If shed like DGI to reissue it, she will 
need to contact it directly.
Finally, Ms M says DGIs engineer didnt test the dryer after fitting new parts. The job report 
says he did check the machine was functioning. I accept that Ms M didnt see the engineer 
check the machine, but I see no reason to doubt the engineers report either. Ms M didnt 
report the dryer fault again until a few days after each repair. She has stressed that being 
without the machine was inconvenient, so I expect she wouldve tried it quite soon after each 
repair. For that reason, I think its possible that the dryer appeared to function which 
persuaded the engineer it was fixed, but the true fault was only apparent when Ms M tried to 
dry clothes. I dont think DGI did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman