DRN-3873511
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined his request 
for a chargeback.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr F ordered a personalised bag from a merchant and paid using his Amex 
credit card. The purchase price of the bag was £2020.
When the bag was delivered, the personalised initials were incorrect. Mr F contacted the 
supplier but was unable to resolve matters.
Mr F contacted Amex and requested to raise a claim.
Amex treated the request as a chargeback request and declined it. Mr F made a complaint, 
which Amex initially failed to raise. It later apologised for the error and applied 10,000 points 
to Mr Fs account as a gesture of goodwill but said its decision to decline the chargeback 
was correct.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
 Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Amex had handled the 
chargeback fairly, because she didnt think there was enough evidence to support Mr Fs 
claim. The investigator also thought that the compensation for the poor customer service 
was fair.
Mr F didnt agree. He said hed entered the correct personalisation details when he placed 
the order and he felt that the goods hed received werent as described.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer (in this case Amex) 
checks the complaint against possible chargeback reasons. This is so it can decide whether 
or not it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit 
chargeback claims, and they will only do so if the claim has a reasonable chance of success. 
This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a 
chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at how Amex handled Mr Fs chargeback request to decide whether it acted 
reasonably.
The assessment of whether a chargeback claim has a reasonable prospect of success is an 
evidence based process. In this case, theres no evidence such as an invoice or order 
confirmation to show what personalised details were chosen by Mr F. Because of this, I cant 
be certain of what personalisation was ordered. Amex wouldve been in the same position. 
Without clear evidence that the item received wasnt what was ordered, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Amex to decline the chargeback claim.
Ive taken into account all of the evidence provided by Mr F, including the details of his wifes 
name and initials. Whilst I agree that this evidences what Mr Fs wifes initials would be, it 
isnt evidence of what personalisation was requested at the time the order was placed.
Ive also taken into account the evidence provided by the supplier. It provided an image of 
the bag and has asserted that this was what Mr F ordered. Ive looked at the suppliers 
website and I can see that when a personalised order is placed, an image is generated to 
show how the item will look. I cant be certain that the image provided by the supplier is the 
image that Mr F wouldve seen when he placed his order. However, on the balance of the 
available evidence, I think its likely that any image displayed at the point of order is what is 
sent to the order team. So it is important that the customer checks that what they have 
ordered is correct.
Taking everything into account, I dont think there is enough evidence for Mr F to show that 
there is a reasonable prospect of success for a chargeback claim. Because of this, I dont 
think Amex acted unreasonably when it declined the claim.
Amex hasnt considered the claim under section 75. It has said that it will do so if Mr F 
requests this. In order to claim under section 75, Mr F will need to provide evidence to show 
that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In relation to how Amex responded to Mr Fs complaint, I think the compensation (in the form 
of points) was fair and reasonable to reflect the poor customer service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman