DRN-3418612
The complaint
Miss F complains that Skyline Direct Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information Skyline has provided here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedterm weekly rate
1 19/07/2017 20/12/2017 £150 20w £10.50
2 20/12/2017 13/06/2018 £150 30w £7.50
3 13/06/2018 21/11/2018 £250 30w £12.50
4 21/11/2018 10/04/2019 £350 30w £17.50
5 10/04/2019 outstanding £500 30w £25
In its final response letter (FRL) Skyline appreciated that it got it wrong for loan 5 and by the 
time the FRL was issued had already arranged for the recompense to alter the account for 
Miss F on loan 5. It wrote to her again in November 2021 following her complaint to say - 
 
we identified that we could have done more when issuing loan 5, As such we have 
refunded the interest paid on this loan, less tax which resulted in a reduced balance 
from £444.00 to £182.73. We notified you of this in writing on 06/10/2021. 
We have been sent a statement of account for loan 5 and it shows that Skyline has written 
off the £444 in June 2021. We have checked with Skyline recently as to whether Miss F still 
owes the balance of just over £182 and it has confirmed that she does. 
Miss F was not content with Skylines outcome and referred the complaint to us wanting the 
other loans reviewed. 
One of our adjudicators wrote to Miss F with her view which was that the loan 5 uphold 
outcome seemed fair. Our adjudicator felt that having reviewed all the evidence provided by 
both sides, the offer Skyline Direct made was the same as what she would recommend. So, 
she did not think she needed to ask Skyline to do any more. 
Miss F was not content and asked for an ombudsman to review it but has sent us no 
additional evidence or explanations as to why.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Skyline completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss F  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Miss F wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Skyline did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss F and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Skyline to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Skyline had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss F. In 
practice this meant that Skyline had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Skyline to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss F. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Miss F has not sent us any documents relating to her financial situation which may give us 
an idea as to her circumstances for the loan period with Skyline.
Skyline has sent us details of Miss Fs declared income and expenditure which appears to 
have calculated that Miss F had enough disposable income each month to be able to afford 
the loan repayments on loans 1 to 4. 
Miss F was asked to declare her weekly income and expenses. For loans 1-4, Miss F gave a 
weekly income as £186 and weekly expenses of £112. This meant Miss F had a weekly 
disposable income of around £74 to meet her weekly loan repayments, the highest being £17.50. So, from the information Miss F gave to Skyline Direct, it appeared that the 
repayments of loans 1-4 were affordable to Miss F.
Having also reviewed the loan statements for these loans, I cannot see there were any late 
repayments, or a reason why Skyline Direct wouldve known that Miss F wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably make the repayments.
Skyline carried out a credit search for loan 1 which was in July 2017 and it no longer has a 
copy of that. Its unfortunate but not unreasonable for Skyline not to have kept a copy of that 
as it was over five years ago. So, we asked Miss F to send to us a copy of her credit file to 
assist but none was sent. 
I have reviewed some of the other complaint files we have for Miss F to see if there was any 
information on those other files that would assist for this complaint. There were other 
application forms for loans to other lenders but I do not consider it right that I rely on self-
declared information to other lenders to verify anything that may have been the financial 
situation for Miss F for the Skyline applications. And many of the other loans post-date the 
earlier Skyline loans and would have been irrelevant.
For the loans applied for to other lenders (on other complaint files) I note that Miss Fs 
declared salary appears to increase as the years passed to an average monthly income of 
between £1,100 in March 2018 to  £1,725 a month in October 2018. 
These figures are a significant increase and one is quite different to the income declared to 
Skyline (between £800 and £830). So, Id need that to be verified and I have nothing from 
Miss F with which to do that. I am not using the other complaint file information especially 
when that information is so different on income figures to what Miss F had told Skyline. 
Based on what I have, I do not consider that the other loans taken with other lenders likely 
would make a difference to the approval of loans by Skyline. I do not uphold Miss Fs 
complaint about loans 1 to 4. 
Skyline has agreed to  and in fact has  put things right for loan 5 and so I have not 
reviewed it. As that was set out in Skylines FRL and actioned before Miss F referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman then I will classify the complaint as a non-uphold. 
Theres nothing more to ask Skyline to do. 
I note that Miss F still owes £182.73 and I remind Skyline of its obligation to treat the debt 
and Miss Fs situation in a positive way and be sympathetic about her circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint about loans 1 to 4. I make no 
decision on loan 5 as that appears to have been resolved before it was referred to us.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman