DRN-3862063
The complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for declining his claim for damage to 
his roof. He wants AXA to accept and settle his claim for repairs to his roof.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy for home insurance with AXA in November 2021.
There was a storm on the night before his policy started and his roof sustained some 
damage.
Mr B submitted a claim for repairs, but this was rejected as weather reports showed that the 
storm winds had died down by the time the policy commenced at 00.00 on the day the policy 
began.
Mr B commissioned private repairs which consisted of replacement of some displaced tiles.
In late January 2022, another storm occurred. Mr B reported further damage to his roof and 
submitted a claim to AXA.
AXA confirmed that there had been storm conditions in the area of Mr Bs home at the 
relevant time and sent a surveyor to assess the damage. AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the 
roof in late March 2022. They took photographs and made a recommendation to AXA. 
Based on this, AXA declined the claim.
Mr B complained to AXA. AXA sent its final response to the complaint in June 2022. AXA 
maintained its decision to decline the claim and commented that the surveyor had not seen 
evidence of recent repairs, nor evidence of damage caused by a storm event. AXA 
acknowledged that it had delayed in dealing with the claim, however, and offered Mr B £50 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr B was not happy with this and contacted us. Our investigator did not recommend that his 
complaint be upheld as she considered that the roof was in poor condition prior to the storm 
and that the storm had merely highlighted existing damage which had occurred through wear 
and tear.
Mr B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He expressed concern 
that AXA would insure his property, and then would rely on the age and condition of the roof 
in order to decline claims. He queried how any claim could succeed in that situation.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in November 2022. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I agreed that the complaint ought not to be upheld, but 
that my reasons for this differed. I thought that the evidence showed damage which was not 
consistent with a storm, and I did not think that the storm was the main reason for the 
damage I had seen. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
AXA has not responded. 
Mr B has submitted comments. He has submitted that the first instance of damage occurred 
after the start of the policy. He is concerned at AXA having a relationship with the loss 
adjuster company and thinks this creates a conflict of interest. He is frustrated that AXA 
continues to contact him with renewal information and requests for feedback, and that he 
has 2 unsuccessful claims on his record. He also advises that he has commissioned his own 
expert to examine the roof and he expects their opinion to differ from AXAs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs upset and frustration at what has happened. He has clearly taken steps 
to safeguard his home and is understandably upset that when it sustained damage he was 
not covered by insurance. 
That said, I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr B has said that his policy had commenced by the time his home sustained damage. This 
relates to Mr Bs home emergency insurance, rather than his buildings insurance which is 
the subject of this complaint. If Mr B has evidence that shows storm conditions and resulting 
damage from the day after his cover started, he should direct this to his home emergency 
insurer from the time and ask them to consider this.  
Mr B is concerned about AXA having a contractual relationship with the loss adjuster as he 
feels this creates a conflict of interest and makes it more likely for the loss adjuster to decline 
claims. We do not look at the broad practices of a business, or the relationships businesses 
have. We look at whether financial businesses have treated individuals fairly and reasonably 
in their particular circumstances. If Mr B has concerns about the way any financial business 
is run, he would need to contact the Financial Conduct Authority who regulate businesses 
and the practices they operate. In this instance, I have seen no evidence that Mr H was 
treated differently, or unfairly, as a result of the loss adjuster being contracted by AXA. 
Mr B has commented that AXA has continued to contact him after he ended his policy. This 
is not something I can consider within this complaint, but Mr B should contact AXA if he 
wishes to change his communication preferences. 
Mr B has commented that he will find it harder to get insurance now he has 2 unsuccessful 
claims which he has to declare. I understand this but it is not something I can take into 
account in respect of whether AXA acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Mr B has said that he has engaged his own independent contractor to survey the roof and 
expects to receive a different assessment. If he does, he is free to provide this to AXA and 
ask that AXA consider whether it affects the decision. Businesses ought to review any new 
evidence that they receive and provide a reasoned response about whether it affects any 
claim.
Overall, I appreciate Mr Bs feelings about this matter, but I remain of the view that AXA did 
not act unreasonably in declining the claim. I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr B 
but for this reason I do not uphold his complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and do not ask AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman