DRN-2285673
The complaint
Mr A says Skyfire Insurance Company Limited wrongly cancelled his motor insurance policy 
on the basis that he hadnt provided all the correct details to it when he bought the policy.  
What happened
In April 2020 Mr A took out a policy with his father as a named driver, not knowing that his 
father had motoring convictions on his record. But when Skyfire asked for documents from 
him showing the driving history of the insured drivers, Mr A found that several offences were 
set out on his fathers driving licence. Skyfire said had it known about them, it wouldnt have 
offered the policy to Mr A. He asked if he could cancel it and set it up again in his name only, 
but Skyfire said it would be cancelling the policy (which meant avoiding it from the start and 
treating it as though it had never existed). 
Skyfire said Mr A should have ensured he provided accurate details to it when he bought the 
policy. It said its underwriting criteria wouldnt have allowed it to offer cover had it known 
about the convictions. But it accepted that one of its advisors had given Mr A some incorrect 
information about the possibility of his father being removed from the policy, so it offered him 
£75 compensation. Mr A wasnt happy with that. He said his premiums had increased 
significantly, so he wanted the record of the avoidance to be removed from the central 
insurance database  the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. He thought Skyfire had acted 
reasonably. He noted that it didnt think Mr A  had misrepresented the facts deliberately or 
recklessly, so it had returned his premium. But he said we couldnt ask Skyfire to remove 
details from CUE, as it was obliged to record the situation accurately on it. He noted that 
when Skyfire confirmed the policy avoidance by phone, Mr A was out shopping. It wouldnt 
allow cover to run until he was able to drive home. But he said Skyfire had issued a letter 
warning Mr A of the avoidance previously that said he shouldnt rely on the policy. 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It says a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, CIDRA says the insurer can take certain action, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what it describes as a qualifying one. To show that there has been a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show that it would only have offered the policy 
to the consumer on different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer if there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation depends on whether it was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. 
Skyfire thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because 
when buying the policy, he didnt answer accurately a clear question it asked about any 
driving convictions for all drivers covered by it within the last five years. Mr A hasnt disputed 
that the question was clear. He says he made a mistake when answering it as he just 
assumed his father had no convictions and therefore gave that reply to Skyfire. 
I dont think Mr A took reasonable care in answering Skyfires clear question. Mr A says he 
had difficulty in contacting his father around the time he was buying the policy. But I dont 
think it was reasonable for him to assume that his father had a clear driving record and 
present that to Skyfire as a fact. Mr A told Skyfire in a call that he first added his father to a 
policy he bought in 2017. Mr A says his father didnt have any convictions then (although the 
record shows a totting-up offence for him in 2016). Unfortunately, it seems Mr As father 
didnt mention that offence to Mr A, or any of those that followed. 
In my opinion, its fair for Skyfire to expect consumers to check that any named drivers 
details they supply when buying a policy are accurate, so it can decide if it wants to cover 
the risk presented by named drivers. And the Statement of Fact issued with the policy 
documents reminded Mr A to check that all the details hed provided were correct . It said the 
policy could be invalidated if it wasnt. I think that should have prompted Mr A to try again to 
get his father to confirm his current driving record - or alternatively to have him removed from 
the policy until that was done. 
 
Mr A took the policy out in 2020. What emerged later was that between 2016 and 2019, his 
father had two convictions for driving without insurance - plus two totting-up offences, a 
disqualification from driving and a conviction for driving whilst disqualified. Skyfires 
underwriting criteria meant it wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr A at all had it known 
about his fathers driving record. As Skyfire would have acted differently had Mr A presented 
these details to it at the start, that means Mr A made a qualifying misrepresentation in not 
providing accurate details of his fathers driving history. 
Skyfire accepts that Mr A didnt deliberately or recklessly misrepresent the facts. But CIDRA 
allows an insurer to avoid a policy if a misrepresentation was just careless. As Skyfire 
wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr A had it known about his fathers motoring convictions, 
I think it was entitled to cancel the policy (avoid it, as though it had never existed) on the 
basis of Mr As careless misrepresentation. 
Mr A thinks Skyfire should have carried out its validation checks more quickly. He thinks if it 
had done so he would have seen his fathers record earlier and could have cancelled the 
policy himself during the 14-day cooling-off period. But an insurer isnt obliged to carry out 
its validation checks within a set period. And theres nothing to suggest that Mr A would have 
been able to get hold of the details so quickly anyway. Skyfire asked him for details of the 
drivers driving history on 6 May 2020. It wasnt until 5 June 2020 that Mr A called to say hed 
found that his father had undeclared motoring convictions. And its also the case that its for 
a consumer to provide the right details in the first place. 
In Mr As opinion, the number of undisclosed driving convictions should have made no 
difference to Skyfire. He thinks that if it would have been willing to amend the policy had his 
father only had one or two undisclosed convictions, it shouldnt have refused to do that for 
the seven on his fathers record. But its for each insurer to decide the level of risk its prepared to cover. Thats partly based on the number of offences on a drivers record and 
their seriousness. We cant interfere with an insurers right to make those decisions. 
 
Mr A also thinks Skyfire should have allowed him time to drive home after advising him it 
was avoiding the policy. I can see that it would have been difficult and frustrating for Mr A to 
have had to make other transport arrangements without any notice. But Skyfire had decided 
to treat the policy as though it had never existed (and had just confirmed that to Mr A). So I 
dont think it was possible for it to provide an extension as there was no policy in place to 
extend. Skyfire then correctly returned the full premium to Mr A.  
Mr A says his annual premium rose significantly as a result of the policy avoidance being 
recorded on CUE. But insurers are required to ensure that accurate records are kept, so I 
dont think Skyfire did anything wrong in recording the situation as it did. 
Finally, one of Skyfires advisors suggested to Mr A in error that he may be able to have his 
fathers name removed from the policy. The advisor said he couldnt see any of the policy 
details at the time. The call shows that he assumed Mr A was making a mid-term change to 
a policy he already had (by adding his father to it) which wasnt the case. And he didnt give 
any assurances about what would happen. Although what the advisor said no doubt raised 
Mr As expectations, his error made no difference to the outcome. In these circumstances I 
think £75 compensation for any distress caused to Mr A by the error was adequate. 
I sympathise with Mr A, given the situation hes found himself in, as its clear he wasnt 
aware of his fathers driving history. But as I think Skyfire acted in line with CIDRA, and Mr A 
cant show it acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman