DRN-1000207
The complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr S took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands for his dog (who Ill call R). The policy 
provided time limited cover which meant, if R was eligible for it, Red Sands would provide 
him with cover for 365 days from the date of occurrence up until any relevant policy limits 
had been reached.
In 2010 Mr S claimed for treatment that R had received for lameness in his left fore limb. 
Red Sands paid the claim, but it placed an exclusion on the policy relating to left fore 
lameness and resulting conditions after that point. 
In 2018 Mr S made another claim because R had required treatment for arthritis in his 
elbows. But Red Sands declined it because of the previous exclusion on the policy and said 
that Rs veterinary records had shown his current arthritis to be directly related to his 2010 
lameness. It also said Rs records had shown that the arthritis had been diagnosed in 2010 
too, so added retrospective exclusions for both of Rs elbows and all bone diseases.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr S complained. He said Red Sands had breached the 
Consumer Rights Act, hadnt made the exclusions clear to him at renewal, and was wrong to 
have retrospectively applied exclusions to his policy. Mr S said that Red Sands should, at 
least, pay for the treatment that R had required on his right hand side or refund his 
premiums. 
Red Sands disagreed and said itd made the exclusions clear to Mr S in both the terms and 
conditions of his policy and in the renewal documentation itd sent him. It said itd added the 
exclusions in line with its underwriting criteria and, in order to accurately reflect that had it 
known about Rs diagnosis at the time, conditions relating to his elbows and/or bone 
diseases would have since exceeded the 365 days of cover.
Mr S disagreed with Red Sands position and approached this service. One of our 
investigators looked at what had happened, but she thought Red Sands had declined the 
claim and applied the exclusions fairly, so she didnt recommend Mr S complaint be upheld. 
But Mr S disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
What Ive decided  any why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, which are set out in full under ICOBS and can be found in the 
FCA Handbook, explain that, as an insurer, Red Sands is required to handle claims promptly 
and fairly and mustnt reject them unreasonably. Red Sands declined Mr S 2018 claim under the following exclusion:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to anything to do with the left fore lameness that 
occurred in March 2010 and resulting conditions with effect from 23 October 2010.
Red Sands had obtained copies of Rs veterinary records and, in relation to Rs history, 
those records had documented:
R presenting with sudden onset left fore lameness in March 2010, and subtle 
secondary osteoarthritis around the elbow following a CT scan in April 2010 
Having intermittent lameness in January 2012, and shifting lameness front legs 
and early arthritis in April 2012 
Having on/off lameness in left fore leg and perhaps arthritis from this in July 2015.
Being lame in front right leg in July 2016
Being sore in front leg again in July 2017
Being lame again in the RF but could also be left one affected as well in April 2018
And, being diagnosed with bilateral end stage ellbo [sic] arthritis and severe 
arthritic changes in both elbows in May 2018
 
So I dont think that Red Sands acted unreasonably in rejecting Mr S 2018 claim on the 
basis of the 2010 exclusion, because the veterinary records had linked Rs 2018 arthritis to 
his previous lameness.
I know that Mr S thinks Red Sands failed to make its exclusions clear to him at renewal 
though and thinks it should, at least, pay for the treatment R had on his right hand side. But 
the renewal documents Red Sands provided said:
This contract is subject to all standard policy terms and conditions plus any claims 
associated with or as a result of the following specific exclusions and/or warranties listed 
below:-
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Anything to do with the Left Fore 
Lameness that Occurred in March 2010 And Resulting Conditions with effect from 
23-Oct-2010.
So I think it made it clear that its standard policy terms and conditions still applied to Mr S 
policy at renewal, as well the specific exclusions that applied to it too. Looking at the 
standard policy terms and conditions, Mr S policy says:
 where a condition is affecting one body part of which your pet has two, one each side of 
the body (e.g. ears, eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments) this will be considered a bilateral 
condition and when applying the benefit limit or an exclusion bilateral conditions are 
considered as one condition.
It also defines a condition as:
 any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation of 
an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease 
process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr S policy, I think its reasonable to conclude that Rs 
left fore lameness would constitute a bilateral condition  because it was affecting one body 
part of which he had two, one each side of his body. So I dont think itd be fair for me to ask 
Red Sands to pay for treatment to Rs right hand side. But, in any event, the specific 
exclusion that Red Sands had placed on Mr S policy didnt just exclude left fore lameness. It excluded any resulting conditions too, and as I highlighted above, the veterinary records 
link Rs 2018 arthritis to his earlier lameness. So I dont think itd be fair of me to ask 
Red Sands to pay for the treatment R had on his right side either.
I know that Mr S has concerns about the exclusions Red Sands retrospectively added to his 
policy  excluding cover on all claims with respect to both elbows and bone diseases from 
October 2010. But as I explained above, Mr S policy is time limited meaning he wouldnt 
have been able to claim for a condition if itd occurred more than 365 days prior. 
At the point Red Sands received Rs veterinary records, more specific diagnoses had been 
made. Red Sands had been unaware of that before though  because it hadnt seen Rs 
veterinary records and Mr S hadnt made it aware of Rs intermittent treatment either. I dont 
think it was unfair of Red Sands to act on the new information itd been provided with at that 
point. And given the nature of Mr S policy, the conditions that Rs veterinary records showed 
hed been diagnosed with would have already exceeded the 365 days of cover that might 
have been available anyway.  So I dont think it was unreasonable of Red Sands to 
retrospectively apply exclusions to reflect that.
I know that Mr S says he would have taken cover out elsewhere if hed known that the 
exclusions would apply. And although that may have been the case, Red Sands was only in 
a position apply those exclusions at the point it received Rs veterinary records. Had those 
records been made available sooner  or had Mr S let Red Sands know about Rs 
intermittent treatment  Red Sands may have been in a position to apply the exclusions 
earlier. But it wasnt. If Mr S wants to take cover elsewhere in view of those exclusions now, 
he can of course choose to do so. But, I dont think itd be fair of me to ask Red Sands to 
refund his premiums for the reasons Ive given above. 
I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy with Red Sands decisions, and I know that he feels its 
actions represent breaches to the Consumer Rights Act. But Im satisfied that Red Sands 
handled his claim promptly and fairly, and I dont think it rejected it unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman