DRN-3018539
The complaint
Mr E complains that TM Advances Limited (TMA) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of that 
provisional decision, but for completeness I provide an extract from it below. In that decision 
I said;
Mr E took a single loan from TMA. He borrowed £3,000 in December 2017 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. At the time he made the 
complaint Mr E still had a balance outstanding on his loan.
TMA gathered some information from Mr E before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure including his housing costs. And it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and 
how well he was managing that credit.
Mr E was entering into a significant commitment with TMA. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that TMA wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Es financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were 
enough to achieve that aim. I think that TMAs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. So Ive 
looked at the information TMA gathered about Mr E to see whether it made a fair 
decision to lend to him.
Mr E was borrowing from other lenders when he asked for the loan from TMA. 
Considering his income, and his other regular expenditure, those repayments when 
taken together would have made it unlikely that Mr E could afford to repay the loan in 
a sustainable manner. But Mr E told TMA that he would be using the loan to repay 
around £1,000 to friends and family and would use the remainder of the loan to 
consolidate some of his other borrowing, including repaying outstanding payday 
loans. I think it was reasonable for TMA to rely on what Mr E told it about his plans. 
And so I dont think it needed to take account of the repayments on those loans when 
considering the affordability of Mr Es application.
The credit check results showed that, apart from the payday loans he was intending 
to consolidate, Mr E had one other outstanding loan. The monthly repayments on 
that loan were around £236. So based on what Mr E had said about his other 
expenditure I think it was reasonable for TMA to conclude it was likely that he could 
afford to repay its loan.
Ive thought carefully about whether the results of the credit check should have led 
TMA to probe deeper into Mr Es finances. It might certainly have caused some 
concern that Mr E had three short term loans outstanding when he asked to borrow 
from TMA. But those loans appeared from the credit check to have been managed 
well. So TMA might have drawn some confidence from the care it appeared Mr E 
took in managing his finances. And by consolidating the loans Mr E was potentially 
breaking out of a payday loan cycle that many consumers have faced. So I dont 
think Mr Es history of open payday loans should have caused TMA to decline his 
loan application.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr E. But, in summary I think 
the checks TMA did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. And I dont think 
the results of those checks should have led to the loan request being declined. So 
I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments in response to my 
provisional findings. TMA has said it has nothing further to add. Mr E has provided some 
additional comments. Although I am only summarising here what Mr E has said, I want to 
reassure him that I have read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr E expressed surprise that I had departed so substantially from the investigators 
assessment. He says that I havent explained why I think TMAs checks were proportionate 
when it agreed the loan. Mr E says that, despite the loan being requested for consolidation, 
TMA should have taken greater notice of the results of the credit check. He says those 
results showed he was reliant on expensive forms of credit and that any additional 
borrowing, despite its purpose, would have caused further financial difficulty and increased 
his indebtedness. He says his bank statements from the time would have showed how poor 
his financial health was. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked again at Mr Es complaint, and his further submissions, I am not persuaded 
that I should change my provisional findings. But I would like to provide some further 
explanations to Mr E, in regard to his comments.
The complaint handling process at this Service is in two stages. An investigator will provide 
an initial informal assessment of the complaint. Should either party disagree with that 
assessment they have the right to ask that the complaint be considered afresh by an 
ombudsman. And that is what happened here  TMA didnt agree with the outcome reached 
by our investigator, and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I conducted a fresh, 
and independent, review of all the available evidence in order to reach my decision. And, as 
happens in some cases, I reached a different conclusion to our investigator.
The regulations in place at the time do not set out what proportionate checks should 
comprise. So it is for a lender to decide what depth of information it needs to assess a 
consumers financial situation before agreeing a loan. And I set out in my provisional 
decision those factors that I thought a lender should consider when deciding what sorts of 
checks might be appropriate.
I think that in circumstances such as these it would be right for a lender to gain a detailed 
overview of a consumers finances. But there are many ways that could be achieved  a 
lender might gather information from a consumer, and it might validate that information by 
reference to a consumers credit file, by asking for copies of bank statements, or by reviewing other third-party data. But it is important to note that in many circumstances a 
lender will be able to form a reasonable and proportionate view of a consumers 
circumstances by using just one of those verification methods. It is often unnecessary for a 
lender to choose to use multiple verification sources in the first instance.
Here TMA did ask for information from Mr E about his finances. And it looked at his credit 
file. I think that level of checks would be sufficient to be considered proportionate in the 
specific circumstances of Mr Es loan application  they allowed TMA to form a reasonable 
view of Mr Es likely ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner. I dont think it 
was necessary for TMA to request that Mr E provide copies of his bank statements. So, 
although those statements might have shown that he was facing problems with his finances, 
it is reasonable that information wasnt available to TMA when it made its lending decision.
I think it was clear to TMA that, when he asked for the loan, Mr E had previously made use 
of expensive credit in the form of payday loans. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision, repaying those loans from his normal disposable income would have left Mr E 
unable to afford the repayments on the new loan from TMA. But he said this loan was being 
taken to refinance that expensive borrowing. By taking the loan from TMA, and using it to 
repay his other borrowing, Mr E would have considerably reduced his monthly outgoings 
even after accounting for the new loan repayment.
So overall I think that the checks I have described above were sufficient to be considered 
proportionate. And I dont think those checks, when taking account of the information Mr E 
provided about his intentions for the loan proceeds, suggested that he wouldnt be able to 
afford his repayments in a sustainable manner. So I dont think TMA was wrong to give the 
loan to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
TM Advances Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman