DRN-1712427
The complaint
M, a business run by Mr W, complained about Barclays Bank PLC. Mr W said that Barclays:
wrongly closed Ms account because of a technical error, which he said meant that a 
job for one of his clients fell through;
gave him unclear information about his overdraft. He would like a small overdraft;
applied charges when the account should have been free; and
one of Barclays staff was rude to him.
What happened
Ms account was opened in 2014, with free banking for the first 12 months. Barclays wrote to 
confirm the end of this period in 2015. 
The account was consistently in debit, and with Barclays Collections team from 2016.
Barclays wrote a number of letters about this. In one of these letters, dated 23 May 2019,
Barclays wrote to say that Ms business current account was overdrawn by £874.10, when
the agreed limit was £300. The letter said that it was giving the required 60 days written
notice before ending the overdraft. It also said: You need to pay into your account to get
back within your agreed limit or clear the overdrawn balance. If this is not possible, or you
are experiencing financial difficulties, please get in touch with us so we can understand your
circumstances.
Mr W didnt send proposals for repayment, or income and expenditure, and Barclays wrote
on 24 October to say it intended to close the account on 21 November.
On 15 November, Mr W got in touch with Barclays. He told them he had serious health
problems. Barclays refunded around £450 of charges, and £50 towards the first repayment.
Unfortunately, although a repayment arrangement had been agreed between M and the
Collections team, the marker to close the account on 21 November wasnt removed. So Ms
account was closed, with a debit balance around £420 transferred to Barclays team which
dealt with debt recovery.
On 2 December Mr W rang Barclays to complain about Ms account being closed. Barclays
reopened the account the next day. As a gesture of goodwill, Barclays wrote off the
remaining debit balance, so the reinstated account started off with a zero balance instead of
a debit balance.
Mr W then contacted Barclays on 13 December to say he wanted to claim for a loss of
business for £649 during the period when his account had been closed, as well as further
inconvenience because he hadnt had a debit card sent to him. Barclays sent a debit card,
but refused to pay for loss of business. It pointed out that Ms customers could have paid
bills by cash, or into Mr Ws personal account. But it paid Mr W an extra £50 compensation.
M also complained that the new account didnt have an overdraft facility. But Barclays
explained that the £300 overdraft, which M had had since 2016, had been set up as a
reducing overdraft. A reducing overdraft was just a way for the Collections team to help
with an overdrawn balance while M was gradually paying back the debt. So when Barclays
had written off the balance as a gesture of goodwill, no reducing overdraft remained. The
bank confirmed that M wasnt eligible for any new overdraft facility.
M, represented by Mr W, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr Ws medical problems. But he didnt uphold Ms
complaint. He pointed out that Barclays had written off the whole of Ms overdrawn balance,
totalling £967.96, and he said that this exceeded what this service would have
recommended in the circumstances. Although Barclays had caused distress at a difficult
time, it had resolved the problem quickly.
M, represented by Mr W, didnt agree. Mr W said he knew hed had an overdraft when he
opened the account in 2014. He said by taking away the debt, Barclays had taken away his
determination to make the business work, and hed have preferred the bank to have left if
and let him pay £50 a month. Mr W also said that he was very ill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ws health situation. I appreciate that its a very stressful and
difficult time.
Loss of £649 of business
Its clear that Barclays made a mistake when it closed Ms account on 26 November 2019,
because it hadnt removed the notice when Mr W had got in touch about paying the
outstanding balance. But M hasnt supplied any evidence, either to Barclays or to this
service, that that closure resulted in the loss of a £649 job for one of the clients. Without
evidence, I cant find that Barclays was responsible for any such loss.
I also note that Ms account doesnt show any regular pattern of payments into the account.
When he first complained to this service in 2020, Mr W told us he had jobs lined up to the
value of £2,000. He told us that would have been a big deal for him, and that ties in with the
account history. Ms account had had a debit balance and was unused for many years, and
there are only a couple of occasions, throughout the history of the account, when there was
any credit paid to the account for more than £50. So I appreciate this would indeed have
been a big deal for M  but it means its even more important to show evidence of this loss.
Mr W got in touch with Barclays about the problem on 2 December, and the account was
reinstated on 3 December. So there was a very short period when the account wouldnt have
been available for a client to pay into. And the client could always have paid M in cash, if
they had indeed tried to make the payment into the account during this brief time.
So I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Overdraft
Ms £300 overdraft had been set up as a reducing overdraft. This wasnt the same as a
standard overdraft, but it was set up by Barclays Collections team, to help M get to grips
with the debt on the account. As its name shows, it was meant to reduce as the balance was
gradually paid off. It wasnt a commitment to provide a £300 overdraft for an indefinite futureperiod.
Banks make their own lending decisions, and Barclays confirmed that it wasnt able to
provide M with a new overdraft facility, when it wrote off the debt and reinstated the account
with a zero balance. I find that Barclays was entitled to make this decision.
Charges
The documents show that Ms account was opened in August 2014 with free banking for 12
months. Ive seen the letter dated 19 May 2015 which says:
Making and receiving payments has been free of charge because of your current Free
Banking Arrangement. The agreed period of this arrangement is due to end on 20 August
2015. From this date, youll start to incur charges for payment transactions and your account
will automatically move to the e-Payments plan.
So I find that Ms account was chargeable from 20 August 2015 onwards.
Rudeness by a Barclays member of staff
Mr W was unhappy that a member of Barclays staff used his first name during a phone call.
Barclays told Mr W that it would provide feedback about this. I consider this is fair, and I
wouldnt expect the bank to do more.
Whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably
The only area where Ive found that Barclays made a mistake was in the closure of Ms
account. And it put that right the day after Mr W reported it. In terms of compensation, and
gestures of goodwill which took into account Mr Ws medical situation, Barclays wrote off
£967.96. I consider that this was generous, and that it fully took into account Mr Ws
personal situation.
I recognise that Mr W has now said hed have preferred it if Barclays hadnt written off this
balance. But I find that Barclays reinstatement of the account without this debt was a
generous opportunity for the business to make progress. I do not require Barclays to do
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman