DRN-4233349
The complaint
Mr B complains about the standard of repairs arranged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) as a result of an accident when driving, under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In August 2022 Mr B was involved in an accident when driving his car. He contacted Admiral 
and it arranged for the repairs. Mr B says the standard of the work was poor and he had to 
return his car to the repairer twice. He says he still remains unhappy with the quality of the 
repairs. 
In its final complaint response dated 24 November 2022 Admiral refers to an assessment it 
arranged of the work its repairer had carried out. It acknowledged the repairs hadnt been to 
a good standard. It agreed to pay for the remedial work at a garage of Mr Bs choice. It paid 
him £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. And £25 because hed paid to have a 
valve removed that had become trapped between a tyre and wheel rim, during the repairs. 
Admiral told Mr B that once rectification work had been completed hed be satisfied with the 
repairs. It said it would consider whether his vehicle had been devalued as a result of the 
damage if Mr B provided evidence to show this.
Mr B didnt hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He thought Admirals response to Mr Bs complaint was largely fair. 
But he thought it should pay a further £200 in compensation to acknowledge the repeated 
poor service and time it took to resolve the claim. He says if Mr Bs concerns about the cars 
value arent alleviated by the remedial repairs, he should complain to Admiral. 
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome. He thought additional compensation was justified for the 
impact the failed repairs had on the value of his car. He asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim records show that Admiral arranged for its approved repairer to deal with the 
accident damage to Mr Bs car. I can see that this was arranged swiftly after the claim was 
logged. However, theres no dispute from Admiral that there were issues with the standard of 
its repairers work. 
A claim record from early October 2022 sets out Mr Bs concerns that his car has had to be 
returned for a second time. He said he didnt like the repairers remark that it will repair a 
stone chip on one of the car doors, but that this was the final straw and no further repairs 
would be undertaken. Mr B remained dissatisfied with the standard of repairs. As a result, 
Admiral arranged for the car to be assessed. It copied the assessors findings into its 
complaint response. Ive included relevant excerpts from this below:
the quality of the paint finish was poor, the finish is of an orange peel effect.. my 
recommendation would be for the whole of the left and right side being rubbed back and 
repainted, this to include the A frames and the bonnet for colour match.
[Mr B] commented on paint build up on the wing, and both door edges on the left side and 
the right side see point (1) above the responsibility of this would be [Admirals repairer].
I can advise that the left A post marks were caused from excessive polishing, this would be 
rectified by [rubbing back and repainting], the quarter glass moulding has been burnt through 
and would require replacement this has been caused by excessive polishing, ([Admirals 
repairer] to rectify).
..the front edge does appear to have an excessive orange peel finishing and the lacquer 
appears to be burnt through in my opinion from over polishing, this will be rectified by 
[rubbing back and repainting].
Right front wing lower rear dirt in paint, I can advise that the wing does have dirt inclusion 
within the paint again this will be rectified by [rubbing back and repainting].
The right front chip still visible, [Mr B] has advised that the vehicle had been returned to the 
repairer due to damaged caused whilst in their care, to the right front door this damage is still 
visible and will require a small repair and repainting.. ([Admirals repairer] to rectify).
As a result of the assessors findings, Admiral agreed to pay for the remedial repairs at Mr 
Bs chosen garage. I think this is fair. We expect Admiral to arrange for effective and lasting 
repairs to be completed. Its clear this didnt happen here. Mr B had to return his car twice. 
And as the assessors findings show, this still didnt achieve a good standard of repair.
I think its fair that Admiral compensates Mr B for the hassle and inconvenience hes been 
caused when trying to get his car repaired to a good standard. I agree with our investigator 
that Admiral should pay a further £200 to acknowledge this. 
The rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) known as the dispute resolution 
or DISP rules, mean we can only consider a complaint once its been made to the regulated 
business. Admiral responded to Mr Bs complaint on 24 August 2022. This means I can only 
consider what happened up to this date. 
I understand that Mr B is concerned about the impact the repairs, including extensive 
repainting work, could have on the value of his vehicle. If after the remedial work is 
completed hes still concerned, he can contact Admiral to complain. If hes not satisfied with 
its response he can ask our service to consider the matter. But I cant consider this point in 
my decision here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
should:
pay Mr B a further £200 compensation for the hassle and inconvenience it caused 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman