DRN-4410097
The complaint
Miss R complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd has declined to remove a default its reporting on 
her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss R had a catalogue account with a business Ill call S that was closed at default in June 
2020. Later that month, Lowell acquired the debt with an outstanding balance of £195.95. 
Lowell took over responsibility for reporting the status of the account to the credit reference 
agencies from August 2020 onwards.
Agents acting on Lowells behalf arranged a payment plan with Miss R of £9.79 a month 
which was maintained.
In April 2023 Lowell wrote to Miss R and explained the default notice issued by the original 
lender, S, didnt give sufficient time to bring payments up to date so wasnt compliant with 
the rules. As a result, Lowell issued a new default notice and said that if Miss R made a 
payment to clear the balance of £19.58 by 16 May 2023 the default would be removed from 
her credit file.
On 2 June 2023 Miss Rs regular payment of £9.79 was taken, leaving an outstanding 
balance of £9.79.
Miss R has explained that she was confused by Lowells letter and quickly raised a 
complaint online. Miss R says she asked Lowell to explain why the previous default notice 
was invalid and how the replacement it had just issued could be compliant. Miss R has 
explained that she wanted to check whether the new default notice was valid or not. But by 
the time Lowell responded on 13 June 2023, the deadline for making the payment had 
passed.
Lowell agreed to backdate the default to 3 June 2020 but didnt agree to remove it. Miss Rs 
final payment was made on 2 June 2023, around two weeks after the deadline given in the 
new default notice.
Miss R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lowell had dealt with Miss Rs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss 
R asked to appeal and said her payments had been made on schedule when she raised the 
complaint and that only £19, or two payments, remained. Miss R added that she was making 
payments via an arrangement to another business (O) and didnt understand why Lowell 
was contacting her about the default.
As Miss R asked to complain, her case was passed to me. I recently contacted Lowell and 
explained that I felt the decision to continue recording the default was likely unfair given the 
balance outstanding and confusion caused. I asked Lowell to consider removing it but 
received no response. As a result, Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that whilst the original default notice wasnt properly served, it 
was S (the original lender) that issued it. So whilst insufficient time mayve been given to 
Miss R to clear the balance in the original default notice, thats not something I can hold 
Lowell responsible as it only purchased the account once it was already closed. In this case, 
I can only look at Lowells actions after it purchased the account from S.
Lowell has explained that it appointed O to collect the debt on its behalf after it was unable to 
contact Miss R. Thats why Miss R was subsequently contacted by O and a payment 
arrangement was agreed. Miss R has explained that she thought O had purchased the debt 
so was surprised when Lowell wrote to her about the default process S had carried out. I 
understand Miss R quickly contacted Lowell to complain. And I think its fair to say Miss R 
found Lowells letter to be unclear. I can understand that as a layman, Miss R may not have 
the background knowledge surrounding how default notices should be issued. So I can 
understand why Miss R contacted Lowell to raise queries and a complaint.
I think its fair to add that Miss R only had £19.58 outstanding when Lowell wrote to her in 
April 2023 and made a payment of £9.79 on 2 May 2023 leaving only £9.79 outstanding at 
that time. So Miss R wouldve only had to pay £9.79 by 16 May 2023 and Lowell wouldve 
removed the default. That payment was taken around two weeks later, clearing the balance 
in full. But Miss R didnt receive a response to her complaint or queries until after that date 
had passed.
In my view, Miss R asked reasonable questions when she contacted Lowell and wanted to 
get a better understanding of what had happened with S default process and why a new 
default notice had been issued. Taking the balance of Miss Rs debt into account and the 
fact she quickly cleared it, Im not persuaded Lowell dealt with her complaint fairly. In my 
view, there was confusion from Miss R that Lowell couldve resolved in time for her to ensure 
the final payment was made before the deadline. So I think the fairest approach is for Lowell 
to remove the default from Miss Rs credit file as it wouldve done if the payment had been 
received by 16 May 2023.
I know Miss R feels Lowell should also compensate her for having a default on her credit file 
since 2020. But Lowell wasnt the party that applied the original default and acquired the 
debt when it was already closed. It was only when S informed Lowell that it hadnt followed 
the right default process that it took steps to reissue the default notice. If Miss R wishes to 
complain about the circumstances and process followed when the original default was 
applied she has the option of contacting S directly.
I invited both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Miss R confirmed she is willing to proceed in line 
with the settlement I reached. We didnt hear back from Lowell. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R has confirmed she accepts and Lowell didnt send any new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision. I still think Miss Rs 
complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Lowell Portfolio I Ltd to settle by 
removing the default from her credit file, as it wouldve done if the balance had been cleared 
before 16 May 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman