DRN-3019639
The complaint
Mr A has complained that St. Andrews Insurance Plc has declined a continuation of a claim 
he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy first made in 2015.
Mr A has been represented by his wife in making this complaint. However, for the purposes 
of this decision I will just be referring to Mr A.
What happened
Mr A stopped working in January 2015 due to depression and made a claim on the policy. 
Although the maximum benefit available under the policy was 24 months, St. Andrews only 
paid out for three months due to limitations on the policy relating to psychological illnesses 
and having to receive a diagnosis from a specialist. Mr A never returned to work after this 
time. 
Having be in contact during 2017 and 2018, Mr A contacted St. Andrews again in 2020 to 
discuss the claim and in 2021 Mr A provided a continuing claim form showing that his GP 
had made a referral to specialist mental health services which Mr A felt now met the criteria 
for having his claim continued and paid. However, St. Andrews treated this as a new claim 
and declined it on the basis that Mr A was not in work when his disability commenced.
Our adjudicator concluded that St. Andrews had acted fairly in both closing the original claim 
in 2015 and setting up a new claim in 2020 and then correctly declined it. Therefore he did 
not uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators view and the complaint 
has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as Mr A is concerned, he has suffered from his illness from 2015 until this day without 
any return to good health. Therefore, as he sees it, the information he provided in 2021 
supports a continuation of the original claim. He wasnt referred to a specialist back in 2015, 
but he has been now, and as it relates to the same period of extended illness, St. Andrews 
should now pay the remainder of the claim.
Mr A says he was never told that the claim had been closed. However, Ive seen a 
confirmation of payment letter from St. Andrews dated 15 September 2015 that explained 
that claims for psychological conditions were limited to three months unless the policyholder 
had been referred to and seen by an appropriate specialist. It defined a specialist as being a 
Consultant Psychiatrist, a Psychiatrist, a Psychologist or a member of a Consultant Led 
Mental Health Tearn. The letter then said that, as Mr A had not been referred to an 
appropriate specialist, and three months of the claim had been paid, the claim had now been 
finalised. Finally, the letter said that all future claims would be subject to a re-qualification 
period that was fully explained in the policy booklet.
St. Andrews has a record of Mr A calling on 18 September 2015 to discuss the contents of 
the letter. The call note says that Mr A was advised that referral evidence would be required 
for review to continue the claim. As I understand it, Mr A seems to have taken this to be an 
open-ended commitment that he could present information about a referral to a specialist if 
and when that should arise, regardless of the length of any intervening time period.
To some extent I can understand why Mr A has been unclear about the situation. Together 
with his apparent understanding of the above phone call, later correspondence could be 
read as being suggestive that the claim could be re-opened for further consideration. 
However, what St. Andrews meant by that was that it would look at the claim again if Mr A 
could provide evidence of why the claim should not have been closed after three months 
back in 2015  presumably by Mr A proving that he had met the terms of the policy relating 
to psychological illness in or around May 2015, which is the date the claim was paid up to.
As Mr A had never returned to work, he continued to send St. Andrews continuing claim 
forms, which St. Andrews would respond to with a request to provide evidence that Mr A 
had received a diagnosis from a specialist. In April 2021 Mr A provided a continuing claim 
form that his GP had completed. This showed that Mr A had recently been referred to and 
seen by a clinical psychologist.
From Mr As point of view, he had now provided the necessary evidence for his original 2015 
claim to be continued. However, St. Andrews had instead set up a new claim with a start 
date of September 2020 (following receipt of a hospital referral letter from Mr A). It then 
ultimately declined that claim due to Mr A not being in work at the start of the claim.
Based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that it was reasonable for St. Andrews to 
close the claim in 2015 as Mr A had been unable to show that he met the specific 
requirements of the policy in relation to psychiatric illness at that time.
However, even if I were to accept Mr As view that the period from 2015 to 2021 should be 
looked at as one continuous claim period, his claim would still not succeed. Thats because 
the policy wording says:
In respect of a claim for psychiatric illness or mental disorders including stress or stress 
related conditions, confirmation of diagnosis from a consultant must be provided at your 
expense.
The definition of consultant is: A member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists and 
recognised by the Royal College as being a consultant.
The health professional that Mr A saw in 2021 was a clinical psychologist but she was not a 
consultant and neither was her team led by a consultant. Therefore, Mr As claim would still 
not have met the criteria for being accepted.
Mr A has pointed out the wording on the continuing claim form (which was the same as the 
wording on the letter dated 15 September 2015 mentioned above) talking about a referral to 
a specialist being required and stating that a specialist included a psychologist. So he 
considers that he has seen the necessary level of health professional. It would be helpful if 
the relevant wording was consistent throughout St. Andrews paperwork. However, in 
deciding this complaint, I have looked at whether the terms and conditions of the policy have 
been applied in a fair and reasonable way. In doing so, I make direct reference to the 
wording in the actual policy document.Clearly Mr A did not want to make a new claim in 2020 but instead wanted a continuation of 
his original claim. Regardless of that, I also consider that it was reasonable for St. Andrews 
to decline the new claim that it had set up. As our adjudicator has explained, any new claim 
for the same disability would be subject to a requalification period requiring a return to work 
between claims. In addition, the policy stipulates that a policyholder has to be in work at the 
start of any period of illness.
It is not in dispute that Mr A continues to suffer from depression and anxiety and that this 
condition started in 2015. However, his circumstances unfortunately do not meet the criteria 
for continuing the original claim or for making a new claim. 
It follows that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
However, as a policyholder has to be in employment in order to make a successful claim, Mr 
A would have been unable to benefit from the policy from the point that his claim was paid 
up to in 2015. As St. Andrews has not been on risk from that point onwards, Mr A should 
give serious consideration to cancelling the policy and asking St. Andrews for a refund of 
premiums from that time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against St. Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman