DRN-4511428
The complaint
Miss C complains that Golden Charter Limited has asked her to pay additional money 
towards her funeral plan, after she moved home and needed to change funeral directors. 
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to the parties. In brief summary, Miss C bought a 
funeral plan in 1993. She paid a total of £920 for a Standard Way plan, with an additional 
limousine. Miss C completed payment for her plan in 1994. 
In August 2023, Miss C contacted Golden Charter to request a change of funeral directors, 
as shed moved. In the call, Miss C asked if she could change to a particular funeral director, 
but this wasnt one that Golden Charter partnered with. An alternative funeral director very 
close to Miss Cs new address was offered, which Miss C accepted. So Golden Charter set 
about arranging this. However, it subsequently wrote to Miss C to explain the new funeral 
director required an additional £1642 to cover their costs before the plan could be 
transferred. 
Miss C complained, saying her plan was guaranteed and that she shouldnt have to pay any 
additional money. But Golden Charter said the change of funeral directors constituted a new 
agreement, which was why the funeral director was able to ask for additional funds. 
Miss C remained unhappy and brought her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked into things for her, but didnt uphold the complaint. So Miss C 
requested that an ombudsman review her case and make a final decision. 
Having reviewed the complaint, I contacted Golden Charter to let them know my initial 
thoughts. I indicated I didnt agree with our investigator and was minded to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint. Golden Charter said it didnt have any more evidence to offer and would await my 
final decision. In the meantime, Im aware it has started to approach other funeral directors 
with a view to securing new provision for Miss C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I've looked at the leaflet and marketing material given to Miss C and read Golden Charters 
terms and conditions carefully. Ive not found any provision that would allow Golden Charter 
to charge a customer more to change funeral directors. 
The leaflet Miss C received includes the following statements:
The Guarantee: As soon as you purchase a Plan, your selected Funeral Director will 
sign a legally binding Contract, which guarantees that the selected funeral 
arrangements will be carried out exactly as and when required, at no further cost.
Change of Funeral Director: Should a change of Funeral Director be required, 
whether through the choice of the Plan Holder perhaps moving house, or even in the 
unlikely event of the selected Funeral Director going out of business, a fresh Contract 
is signed by a new Funeral Director, to replace the previous Guarantee, thus 
ensuring that the arrangements will continue unaffected, subject always to the 
choice of the Plan Holder.
Protection: The Plan Holder is therefore protected at all times against all 
eventualities, as a Contract and Guarantee is always in place, ensuring that the Plan 
Holders arrangements will be fully honoured with no extra cost. 
Safety: You therefore have the comfort of knowing that the purchase of a Golden 
Charter Pre-Paid Funeral Plan will give you peace of mind from knowing that your 
arrangements have been made as you wish, are guaranteed to be carried out, and 
there will be no more to pay, no matter how much costs may rise in the future. 
Flexibility: Should you move home a new Funeral Director of your choice will be 
appointed.
And Golden Charters terms, at section 3.2, state:
Where the Selected Funeral Directors appointment as such is terminated pursuant 
to Clause 2.3 or 2.4 (that is, by either the Member, Miss C, her family, or the 
Company, Golden Charter) the Guarantee given by that Selected Funeral Director 
shall lapse and the Company shall procure that the new Selected Funeral Director 
chosen by the Member or the Companyshall forthwith issue a Guarantee to the 
Member. 
To my mind, these documents make it clear that Golden Charter is responsible for arranging 
for a new Guarantee to be issued. There is no mention in any of the material Ive seen of any 
additional cost to be borne by the customer. To the contrary, the material expressly promises 
there will be nothing more to pay.
In view of this I dont think Golden Charter has acted fairly in seeking additional payment 
from Miss C to change funeral directors, following her move. I therefore uphold her 
complaint.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Golden Charter is responsible for negotiating a new Guarantee with a funeral 
director to deliver Miss Cs funeral arrangements without additional cost to her.
Golden Charter has a number of partner funeral directors local to Miss C. I note that in its 
final response letter to Miss C it did offer to approach other funeral directors to see if one 
would accept Miss Cs plan without additional cost. And I was pleased to see that, following 
my indication that I intended to uphold Miss Cs complaint, Golden Charter has started to 
explore options for Miss C in terms of securing a new funeral director to deliver her plan at 
the time of need.To put things right, Golden Charter must arrange for a new Guarantee to be issued to Miss 
C by a funeral director in her local area, at no additional cost to her. 
Im aware that four companies have been named to date as potential providers. Where 
possible  that is, where more than one provider is willing to accept Miss Cs plan  Golden 
Charter should offer Miss C a choice of funeral directors. 
Miss C has said shes incurred costs dealing with this matter  photocopying, postage and 
phone calls. No figures have been provided, but I nevertheless think that, in 
acknowledgement of the fact Miss C will have incurred some additional expense, Golden 
Charter should also pay her £25 compensation to cover her losses.  
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Golden Charter Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman