DRN-2704591
The complaint
Ms W complains about Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) who didnt offer a contribution towards 
the cost of her replacement boiler, that was deemed beyond economical repair under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms Ws boiler broke down and she contacted Swinton to make a claim. An engineer was 
sent out who deemed it beyond economical repair (BER). Ms Ws policy allowed for a repairs 
cover limit of £1,500 and she was unhappy that this limit couldnt be used as a contribution 
towards the cost of a new boiler, so she raised a complaint. 
In its final response, Swinton confirmed that it had contacted Ms Ws insurers on her behalf 
but were unable to question the decision it reached and so there was nothing further it could 
do. Ms W was unhappy about this outcome and so referred her complain to this service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that Swinton 
had dealt with her complaint fairly. That the complaint that she was making regarding the 
replacement boiler contribution, ought to have been raised against her insurers and not 
Swinton who were the administrators of the policy. So, there was nothing further he could 
reasonably ask Swinton to do. 
Ms W didnt agree with our investigator. Ultimately, she said that she believed that her 
complaint about a contribution towards her replacement boiler was against Swinton and so 
she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms W, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Since 2012 Ms W has held a home emergency policy, which among other things covered for 
her boiler breakdowns.  In January 2021 Ms W found that her boiler was leaking and she 
had a loss of hot water. She made a claim and an engineer was sent by her insurers. That 
engineer deemed her boiler BER. 
I have read the policy document and I have considered the parties comments. I think there is 
one specific aspect to this complaint. In that, Ms Ws complaint is about the lack of 
contribution towards her replacement boiler which should be made against her insurers.  
Ms W confirms that she received and supplied to me, her policy schedule, the demands and 
need document and terms and conditions of the policy. I have reviewed those documents 
and all confirmed that the insurers are not Swinton. Swinton is the administrator of Ms Ws 
home insurance policy. 
As for the home emergency cover, it would be Ms Ws insurer who provided cover and who 
would decide the outcome of a claim. So, if Ms W is unhappy about the lack of contribution 
towards the cost of the replacement boiler, then she will need to raise a complaint directly 
with her insurer.  
Having reviewed all the evidence before me, I cant see where Ms W has raised this 
complaint with her insurer and so it hasnt had the opportunity to respond to a complaint 
about its decision.
Our regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority allow a business eight weeks to investigate a 
complaint before this service can consider it. Consequently, I cant decide on the merits of 
Ms Ws complaint, without it being investigated by her insurers first. 
Overall, I think that Swinton has dealt with Ms W reasonably and I am satisfied that its 
actions were fair. So, I cant reasonably ask Swinton to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman