DRN-3699878
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct did not act upon his payment 
instructions. 
What happened
Mr F attempted to transfer £5,000 to an external third party account. He says despite the 
forms being correctly completed, First Direct did not send the money. Mr F made a complaint 
to First Direct.
First Direct did not uphold the complaint. They said that on 5 November 2021 and 9 
November 2021, Mr F attempted to make two payments of £50,000 but they were not 
confirmed and as such, they didnt debit his account. They said that based on Mr Fs balance 
at the time of the payment attempt, had the payments been confirmed, they may not have 
debited his account as there wasnt enough funds in his account at the time to make the 
payments. First Direct said if he attempted to complete the payments again, provided there 
were enough funds in the account and the payments were completed in full, the payments 
would show as debiting on his statement and they would be sent, subject to standard 
checks.
Mr F responded to First Direct. He attached what he said were two copies of the transfers to 
the third party bank. He said this clearly showed he attempted to transfer £5,000. Mr F said 
that if there was a problem with the transfer then First Direct should have contacted him.  
First Direct apologised for previously stating the attempted transfers were for £50,000 and 
not £5,000. But they said the payments werent made as they werent confirmed by Mr F.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He said there was a delay in First Directs 
response which resulted in the transfer being out of time as the third party bank closed his 
account when they did not receive the funds within 21 days. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. Our investigator said that although Mr F 
had assumed both of his attempted payments had been completed as Mr F had screen 
shots showing the payment information, unfortunately this was not the case as he hadnt 
confirmed the payment on the final screen. He said in order for both payments to be 
completed, Mr F wouldve been required to check the details and then make one more press 
to send the funds, and as this was not done it meant the funds were not sent to the external 
account.
Mr F asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said a bank clerk had mistaken 
£5,000 for £50,000 twice and this was admitted in the response First Direct sent to him on 
14 December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear from the outset that there is an error in the response that First Direct sent Mr 
F dated 14 December 2021. First Direct do mention that payments of £50,000 were set up 
and Mr F did not have sufficient funds in his account to make these payments. As both 
parties are fully aware, Mr F attempted to transfer £5,000 on 5 November and 9 November 
and not £50,000. First Direct confirmed this to Mr F when they sent him a communication 
dated 4 January 2022 at 10:40am where they apologised by saying I'm sorry we previously 
confirmed you attempted to set up payments of £50,000 and not £5,000.  
So Im satisfied that this was a human error that the complaint handler included this in his 
response to Mr F originally. The response to Mr F does confirm that on each occasion the 
payments werent confirmed, as such, it wasnt processed. So despite the amount which 
First Direct originally did say Mr F attempted to transfer, Im persuaded that the reason First 
Direct have said the transfers didnt complete, is because Mr F didnt confirm the payment.
Ive looked at the screenshots Mr F has sent our service. But these are not confirmation 
pages he has sent us. The heading of the screenshots is for him to confirm payment. 
These screenshots do not show that the payments had been confirmed or that the payment 
was successful. Another reason why Im satisfied the screenshots Mr F sent us are not a 
confirmation screen is because at the bottom of the screenshots they show a fraud alert. It 
says if you have received an unexpected request to make a payment, then stop and contact 
the company using their telephone number from a trusted source e.g. their website.
So as this tells Mr F to stop, he would not be able to stop the payment if it had already been 
confirmed. In addition, because it urges the user (Mr F) to contact the company, as opposed 
to First Direct, this also indicates that this screen is prior to the payment going through, 
otherwise I would expect First Direct to instruct their customer to contact them. I say this as 
they could then try and take the funds back if Mr F had been a victim of a scam/fraud.
Ive had a look at an activity audit of Mr Fs account on both 5 November and 9 November. 
First Direct have confirmed to me that their payments process is automated. So Im able to 
see what Mr F input on the system when he entered payment details and what time he 
visited different screens. First Direct have confirmed there are three steps to making the 
payment. I can see from step two on the audit, where Mr F has input the destination sort 
code and account number and the amount to be sent on the audit shows as 500000. 
First direct have explained that this figure shows the pence as well as pounds, so 
500000 would be £5,000.00, which is what Mr F has confirmed he wanted to transfer. Im 
persuaded that the complaint handler saw 500000 on the audit and made an error in 
believing that this was £50,000 as he hadnt counted the number of zeros correctly. But 
regardless of this, First Directs system audit of both dates shows that Mr F entered 
£5,000.00 into the system and this is also shown on the screenshots Mr F sent our service.
The audits also show that at 14:26:09pm that Mr F was on a review screen. The audit shows 
that Mr F was at stage two and shows all of the details he had entered. But there is no stage 
three or any evidence that Mr F confirms the payment.
I say this as after 14:26:09, the next entry on the audit is at 14:29:02, which the audit shows 
Mr F viewed his transactions at this time. He views them again at 14:30:28. The audit shows 
a similar thing happening on 9 November. At 13:12:59, he is on the review screen (step two 
of the payment), but there is no step three. The evidence shows he did not confirm the 
payment again. At 13:14:21, just over a minute after the review screen, he views his 
transactions. 
So Im satisfied that the reason that both payments didnt complete is because Mr F did not 
confirm the payment on both occasions by clicking a button to confirm the payment, which would have been the final stage. Ive considered what Mr F has said about a clerk inputting a 
wrong amount, but the process is automated, so it wouldnt rely on someone inputting the 
details Mr F had already input. So as the evidence shows that Mr F did not confirm the 
payments on either occasion, it follows I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman