DRN-3659589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about delays by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) in settling their claim under their home insurance policy regarding floor damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs kitchen floor suffered damage in 2017 after a kettle bell weight had been 
dropped onto the tiled floor. Theyd made a historical complaint to this service. The outcome 
required commission of an independent report and for RSA to review the claim in the light of 
this report. The relevant report considered that tiles had failed due to floor movement. It had 
been the investigators view that Mr and Mrs C should be given the opportunity to arrange for 
subfloor work completed. Once this had been done, RSA was then to repair the tiles that had 
been damaged (and already replaced on one occasion) as per the policy provisions. 
Mr and Mrs C were frustrated with delays in progressing the matter. They were happy to 
complete subfloor work, but they complained that RSA wouldnt appoint a contractor until 
they had quotes for the works to be completed. Due to the pandemic, this took longer than 
expected, but in November 2021, Mr and Mrs C submitted quotes for the work and materials. 
They said theyd had to instigate all communications with RSA. Theyd expected payment of 
costs for RSAs element of works in advance in order to speed up the process and so as not 
to be out of pocket. They complained that RSA had caused distress due to the ongoing 
delays and lack of communication. In the circumstances Mr and Mrs C referred their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and noted lengthy delays and confusion 
about the next steps following receipt of the independent report. Our investigator 
acknowledged there was a delay of five months due to waiting on Mr and Mrs C to send in 
quotes requested by RSA. She also noted that RSA eventually came to a final financial 
settlement with Mr and Mrs C in July 2022, however she couldnt see why it took a further six 
months to come to this point. She didnt think 17 months to settle a claim was reasonable. In 
recognition of the delays and inconvenience caused, it was her view that RSA should pay Mr 
and Mrs C £300 in recognition of this. For clarity, she said she was not commenting on 
anything prior to January 2021, as this had been addressed previously.
RSA accepted this view however Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy with the outcome. They 
considered that a greater compensatory award was appropriate for the upset and stress 
caused, by what they refer to as RSAs inactivity and excessive delay. In the circumstances, 
the matter has been forwarded to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settlement of the substantive amount claimed by Mr and Mrs C has been achieved. The 
remaining question for final determination is whether its fair and reasonable to award 
compensation and if so, what level of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I turn firstly to Mr and Mrs Cs submissions. Mr and Mrs C referred to the background 
context. They said that RSA wouldnt appoint a contractor until Mr and Mrs C had obtained 
quotes for the subfloor work to be completed. They said that due to the Covid pandemic, this 
took longer than expected, but in November 2021, they did submit quotes for the work and 
materials. 
Mr and Mrs C complained that they had no communication from RSA and had to instigate all 
communication. Eventually they said they were asked to pass on details of their builder, 
which had already been sent, for assurance that sub floor work would be completed. They 
said that RSA had originally offered to pay the costs for the removal of the old flooring and 
preparation for retiling but now wanted evidence that the subfloor work had been completed 
before they would pay for the tiling. By March 2022, they considered that RSA had reneged 
on this understanding, as they werent including the cost for lifting the floor, removal of 
waste, damage to plywood flooring and decor and refitting of heating mats.
As to the cost and timing of works, Mr and Mrs C explained that they required all the flooring 
removal and preparation costs to be paid in advance, so that we could purchase materials 
and get tradesmen booked. They explained that tradesmen were busy, and they didnt want 
to be in a situation where they could only get half the work done, await payment of costs 
then wait again for a tradesman to be available. They were also concerned that since they 
submitted the cost of material in November 2021, they felt there was a good chance that 
material costs would have increased, and they didnt want to be 'out of pocket'. They wrote 
to RSA in March 2022 to state We feel it would be logical to settle the claim in full, so we 
can get all available contractors on board, available at the same time and materials ordered, 
all in the shortest amount of time to reduce inconvenience to a minimum. They explained 
that once the original floor was lifted, they would look at the subfloor and carry out any 
necessary works, at their own expense.
During the period of dispute over an appropriate settlement, Mr and Mrs C said that their 
floor had continued to deteriorate and had become more unsafe with cracks becoming 
larger. Theyd hoped to have the work completed by Christmas 2021, due to family 
celebrations taking place in 2022. They said that the waiting, lack of communication and 
stress was becoming unbearable. They were frustrated by what they felt was apparent 
stalling and lack of commitment by RSA to honour previous findings of the service.
In conclusion, Mr and Mrs Cs overall complaint was in relation to the time taken to settle the 
matter since their initial claim. They also noted that theyd been living with an unsightly and 
potentially dangerous floor for a long period of time. They said that all communication had 
been one sided as theyd also always had to initiate it and RSA asked for information 
already submitted. Finally, they referred to stress caused, including release of payments and 
said; - this felt like a game due to RSA only permitting small amounts at a time to be given. 
Mr and Mrs C felt that mistakes, lack of communication on the part of RSA and constant 
delays resulted in sustained upset and distress, having to go over old ground. They said that 
the disruption to their daily lives was immense and it felt like a massive cloud hanging over 
their heads. Finally, the said that RSA hadnt informed them that a payment was being made 
in July 2022. They said that if theyd known, they could have tried to engage contractors.
Mr and Mrs C felt that this services compensation guidelines indicated that an award of over 
£1,500 and up to around £5,000 would be appropriate where the mistakes cause sustained 
distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to daily life typically 
lasting more than a year.
I now turn to what RSA have said about the necessary tiling work. In March 2022, it stated 
the works required to the sub floor would not form part of this claim, as not damaged in 
the original incident of dropping a kettle bell on the tiled kitchen floor. The adjudication by the FOS advised that that the sub floor should be inspected and if works required to it for you to 
address and pay for these issues and then we would pay for the refitting of the affected 
flooring tiles.
It initially confirmed to Mr and Mrs C that it would offer the cost of the uplift and fitting of the 
floor in the sum of approximately £3,400 and confirmed that this would be in full and final 
settlement of the claim, and once paid the file would be closed. In April 2022, it then 
confirmed the settlement offer to be approximately £6,400. RSA then called Mr and Mrs C in 
June 2022, asking what they would accept as final settlement. They referenced a figure of 
approximately £9,300. On checking current quotes however, this went up to approximately 
£10,100. RSA confirmed payment in July 2022.
Ive considered all submissions and evidence provided by both Mr and Mrs C and RSA, 
including the claim notes. RSA has eventually paid Mr and Mrs Cs amended total claim for 
just over £10,100. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs C in relation to the catalogue of disruption and stress which 
theyve suffered in relation to what was originally a straightforward claim for damage to their 
kitchen floor caused by a kettle bell weight, dropped onto their kitchen floor. What I cannot 
say is that all of this disruption and stress was caused by RSAs approach to the matter. I 
note that there was an on-going dispute as to what exactly and how much RSA should be 
responsible for paying and also as to the timing for this payment. I appreciate the difficulties 
and frustrations experienced by Mr and Mrs C not only from January 2021 but also 
previously. This decision however relates only to RSAs actions from 2021 onwards.
Im satisfied that the evidence points to on-going problems with the subfloor to the kitchen 
and/or to the joists below. This appears to be confirmed by the independent report obtained 
in 2021. The next steps from the investigators previous view was that Mr and Mrs C should 
be given the opportunity to get subfloor work completed. Only once this had been done was 
RSA then expected to repair the tiles that had been damaged. What Im therefore unable to 
say is that it would have been unfair or unreasonable for an insurance company to seek to 
be assured that any such issues had been resolved before paying for further tiling work. This 
would minimise further damage. I can likewise appreciate why Mr and Mrs C wished to avoid 
a situation where they could only arrange one portion of the work for which they were 
responsible, then receive RSAs payment for the insured works and then to have to wait 
again for tradesmen to be available.
As to the proportion of work for which RSA was responsible, again I appreciate the on-going 
frustration for Mr and Mrs C. This was not a straightforward claim however where it was 
likely that all damage was covered by an insured event. There was clearly confusion as to 
how much of the associated work might be linked to any sub floor or joist issues, and how 
much was due to the insured event. Figures were also being updated over the course of 
recent months.
Negotiations around such issues invariably take some time, and some delays during 
complex negotiations are inevitable. I nevertheless find that RSA didnt communicate clearly 
and adequately with Mr and Mrs C over the past 17 months and that it added to the 
confusion. I also consider that it unnecessarily delayed some aspects of the deliberations. I 
agree with our investigator that this length of time to settle a claim isnt reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C have referred to the services guidance on compensatory awards. I accept that 
the stress upon them has been for a long period of time. However, this decision can refer 
only to the delays which are the subject of the current complaint. As above, whilst I accept 
the extent and impact of this stress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C, I consider that this was caused by a variety of factors. It would not be reasonable to state that the 
delays and negotiations were all unavoidable or down to RSAs actions or inactions.
In conclusion, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, however I agree with our investigator that 
£300 is a fair and reasonable award of compensation in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require it to pay £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C. However, if this sum has 
already been paid, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do any more in 
response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman