DRN-3442551
The complaint
Mrs M complains that her home emergency policy from Homeserve, underwritten by Aviva 
Insurance Limited, hasnt provided her with a service for over a year as required by the 
contract.
What happened
Mrs M renewed her policy in December 2020, and this covered her home for plumbing, gas 
central heating system, electrics and security problems. The policy included provision of an 
annual gas boiler service at £96 per annum.
There were some incidents at Mrs Ms home involving rodents and a blocked sink. Aviva 
sent an engineer initially to look at the problem with rodents, but there doesnt appear to 
have been any follow-up action. Mrs M said Aviva didnt arrange any visits to help and she 
had to arrange engineers herself. 
Mrs M said she didnt receive a boiler service for two years even though her home was a 
safe environment for an engineer to work in. She said the cost of the services at £192 and 
the premiums should be refunded, along with costs she incurred for work she had done by 
others, but Aviva had refused. Mrs M is disabled and said she had to move out of her 
bedroom because she couldnt use it.
Mrs M complained to Aviva that it should have returned her premiums for the months she 
didnt receive a proper response to her problems. She said instead Aviva put her premium 
up. Aviva declined to do this when it responded to Mrs Ms complaint, but paid her £250 
compensation for having to arrange her own engineer. 
Aviva said it would refund the cost of any work Mrs M had done so long as she provided 
evidence of costs and it was covered by the policy, but it wouldnt refund her premiums. It 
reduced her upwardly revised premium by £20. Aviva wouldnt refund the cost of the missed 
annual boiler services as it had written to Mrs M requesting she make contact for this to be 
arranged. Mrs M brought a separate complaint about the service agreement with Aviva.
Mrs M said this offer was in relation to her costs of obtaining a n engineer to fix her problems 
and she should receive a refund of premiums and compensation. She referred her complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator said Aviva ought to have sent an engineer as Mrs M is disabled and a 
priority customer. And he said it ought to reimburse her for the costs of an engineer that she 
paid, which was thought to be about £250. The investigator didnt think Aviva needed to go 
further and refund Mrs M for her premiums and he thought its payment of £250 
compensation was fair. 
Mrs M was unhappy with the investigators response and requested an ombudsman review 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has brought a complaint about the service agreement she had with Aviva, which has 
been addressed separately. Service agreements arent part of the insurance policy for which 
the rest of her cover related and arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. This 
means they are outside of the complaints which our service can consider. Having said this, 
Ive seen from Avivas records that it wrote to Mrs M three times inviting her to make contact 
to arrange the annual boiler service, which is in line with the terms and conditions and is its 
normal approach. 
I have seen the very detailed correspondence from Mrs M to Aviva and to our service and I 
hope she doesnt think it a discourtesy if I dont address every point she has made. I have 
tried to concentrate on the main issue at hand.
Mrs M said she had to pay for three visits by engineers to resolve problems in her home and 
that these amounts should be refunded by Aviva as it failed to address her problems. 
Aviva said Mrs M hadnt made a claim for any of this work, as she had in previous times, and 
it hadnt failed to help her. I agree with the investigator that Mrs M should provide Aviva with 
the amounts she paid for an engineer to carry out works to her home and as much detail as 
possible about what work was actually carried out at the time. Its not reasonable to expect 
an insurer to repay a policyholder for work carried out without any information about the work 
or costs.
I understand why Mrs M thinks she should receive a refund of her premium for the poor 
service she received. However, her policy was in operation at the time and Aviva were on 
risk of any further claim that she might have made. Had she made a claim at the time this 
would have to have been considered by Aviva. It is for an insurer and service provider to set 
the cost of the premium and as this is a commercial decision and it isnt one that this service 
would interfere with. It is a consumers responsibility to obtain cover that is suitable for their 
needs and that includes the price. 
I have thought about the £250 compensation Aviva paid Mrs M for the poor service she 
received. I think it was worrying and concerning for Mrs M to have problems that she felt she 
couldnt get Aviva to address and to think that she had to make her own arrangements for 
her repairs. I can understand the difficulties Aviva faced in making arrangements to have 
work done at the time, and I think the compensation Aviva has paid Mrs M is fair in the 
circumstances. I also think the compensation is consistent with other awards we have made 
in similar circumstances.  
From what Mrs M has said I can see the stress the claim has caused her and I hope she can 
provide Aviva with the information it requires about her engineer visits that will facilitate a 
refund of the costs to her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman