DRN-1664989
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan secured on their property with Nationwide in 1995. At the same 
time they bought a PPI policy which would have covered their loan repayments for up to 24 
months at a time if Mrs B couldnt work due to accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months 
at a time if Mrs B was made redundant. 
Mr and Mrs B say the terms and conditions werent explained to her. They indicate they 
didnt realise the policy was optional and that they didnt need it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
25 years have passed since the sale of the PPI, so  unsurprisingly  neither party has the 
original documents used during the sale. Mr and Mrs B dont dispute that they agreed to buy 
the PPI, but they say that they didnt realise it was optional. 
Nationwide has said that it would have been clear the policy was optional. While I cant be 
sure what was said during the meeting where the loan and PPI were sold, Nationwide has 
provided a sample copy of the loan agreement Mr and Mrs B would have been provided with 
at the time. It makes it clear that the PPI was optional. And as it was a secured loan Mr and 
Mrs B wouldnt have signed this agreement until a signature copy was sent to them seven 
days later they would have had enough time to review the paperwork.
Nationwide has also provided a copy of the welcome letter Mr and Mrs B would have 
received. Again, this shows that the PPI was optional.
On balance, on the information available to me, I am satisfied Mr and Mrs B bought the 
policy knowing they had a choice about it. 
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs B a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it 
didnt need to check it was right for them. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mr and Mrs 
B had enough information about the policy to make her own informed decision.Nationwide didnt have an obligation to check the PPI was right for her. I am satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs B would have  as a very minimum - understood they were buying a policy 
designed to meet their loan repayments if Mrs B couldnt work. So, it was up to Mr and Mrs B 
to decide whether they needed the cover.
Its possible Mr and Mrs B didnt fully understand the finer detail about the cover. But looking 
at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for Mrs B, 
so even if Mr and Mrs B had fully understood it I dont think they would have acted differently 
and not bought the policy. Mrs B was eligible for it and wasnt affected by any of the terms or 
exclusions which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such 
as those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. Mrs B had limited sick 
pay but the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer. 
Similarly, it would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs B received  which 
would have likely only have been a few weeks salary. 
The policy was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial penalty. 
Indeed, Mr and Mrs B cancelled the policy after a couple of months. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of anything Nationwide might 
have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman