DRN-2307747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (when it was trading as Bristol & West) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Bank of Ireland in my decision as it is responsible for dealing 
with this complaint. 
What happened
In 1985 Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy and it protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr S lost 
his job and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
In 1987 it looks like Mr and Mrs S upgraded to a new policy that offered Mr S accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed. 
They mainly say that they weren't told that the policy was optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Theres very limited information available about the PPI that Mr and Mrs S took out. I can 
understand this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs S. But it isnt a reason, on its own, for me to 
uphold their complaint.
 I have to look at all the available information and think about the wider circumstances when 
deciding what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Ive seen nothing signed by Mr and Mrs S to show me how PPI was sold to them in 1985. Its 
not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available or 
that Bank of Ireland doesnt have more information about the sale. I wouldnt expect Bank of 
Ireland or Mr and Mrs S to have kept all the documents relating a mortgage account that 
closed over 25 years ago.   
And I cant know exactly what mightve been discussed when Mr and Mrs S arranged this 
mortgage or how PPI was presented. But in order to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint Id 
have to find that its likely they werent given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to 
the mortgage account without their consent. 
Overall, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that Bank of Ireland didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs S not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it, just based on what they say now. 
I say this because the mortgage was likely a big financial commitment for them and their 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. They told us 
that only Mr S was in paid work at the time. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs S mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
And given that Mr S seems to have taken out redundancy protection only in 1985, and no 
accident, or sickness cover, it seems likely to me that Mr and Mrs S understood at the time 
that it was up to them to say if they wanted any PPI. And the cover they took out reflected 
their wishes at the time.  
I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs S mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, 
I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S felt they wanted to have some of the security and 
benefits that PPI offered and they decided to buy the policy. 
 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Bank of Ireland sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, and 
bearing in mind what Mr and Mrs S recall from the sale, I think the fairest way to assess this 
complaint is to consider that Bank of Ireland mightve recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S.  
Looking at the complaint this way imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business 
makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information 
in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is 
suitable. 
So this way of looking at things gives Mr and Mrs Ss complaint the best chance of 
succeeding. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 1985, given that the policy wouldve paid 
out if Mr S lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed, I think this wouldve been a 
useful benefit. 
Only Mr S was in paid work when Mr and Mrs S took out this mortgage. So if he wasnt 
earning, then I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs S wouldve been able to keep up with their 
mortgage monthly repayments for very long. 
Theyve mentioned that they had less than 3 months worth of savings and no significant 
other means to rely on. 
So, looking at their circumstances at the time in 1985, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible Bank of Ireland didnt point out some things the policy didnt cover. But I think 
its likely that Mr S wouldve been able to claim on the policy in all the circumstances he 
expected. 
So even if all the policy details werent mentioned, I dont think its likely that clearer 
information about things that didnt affect Mr S wouldve made any difference to his decision 
to take out PPI. 
And although I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S Ive seen nothing 
to make me think that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
Taking all this into account, even if Mr and Mrs S had been given clearer information, I dont 
think its likely this wouldve put them off taking out the policy in 1985, given their 
circumstances at the time and the benefits it offered them. So I dont find they were mis-sold 
PPI in 1985. 
In 1987 it looks like Mr and Mrs S made the decision to upgrade their cover and they took 
out a new policy that protected Mr S not just in the event of unemployment, but also if he had 
to take time off work as a result of accident or sickness. 
As far as I can see, Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances were substantially unchanged. Mr S told 
us that he wouldve had at least 6 months sick pay  but less than 12 months. The new 
policy paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim. And the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay from work. Bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs S mightve also had some 
additional costs if Mr S was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve 
been a useful benefit at a difficult time.  
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
So, based on everything Mr and Mrs S have told me about their financial situation at the 
time, I havent seen enough to make me think the PPI wasnt suitable for them.
Its possible some of the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But 
I dont think its likely that clearer information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take it out, as Mr S wasnt affected by any of those 
things when they took out the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear when Mr and Mrs S bought the policy but it looks 
like theyd set up a direct debit arrangement at their bank for the new policy. So they seem to 
have been happy at the time to pay for it. And there was an indication of the monthly cost in the letter the insurer sent Mr and Mrs S 
confirming that their completed application for the new policy had been accepted and telling 
them when the first payment would be taken. So Mr and Mrs S had an idea of the cost 
before they had to start paying for the policy and if they hadnt wanted to pay this amount 
they wouldve been able to take this up with the insurer at the time. Ive seen nothing to 
make me think they did that. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs S couldnt 
afford the premiums. So thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
As this was a policy Mr and Mrs S paid for monthly, they couldve cancelled it at any time at 
no extra cost if they decided they no longer wanted it or didnt wish to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave Mr and Mrs S useful protection in their particular situation. 
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result of anything Bank of Ireland did 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman