DRN-3977806
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is Nationwide Building Society allowed their daughter, V, to close 
their joint account. 
What happened
Mr J is a party to the complaint, but it has been brought to our service primarily by Mrs J, so 
Ill mostly be referring to her throughout this decision.  
Mrs J has said that Mr J was diagnosed with dementia and Alzheimers in May 2020. Mr J 
completed a Power of Attorney in July 2021, which was registered with the Office of the 
Public Guardian in January 2022. 
In September 2021, Mr J went into a Nationwide branch and asked to close the joint account 
he held with Mrs J. This was completed and the balance was transferred to an account in  
Mr Js name. Mrs J feels this should not have been completed as she had made Nationwide 
aware that Mr J was vulnerable and suffering with medical issues. And she thinks it was 
clear that their estranged daughter, who Ill call V, was influencing Mr J and had convinced 
him to close the account. 
Nationwide issued a final response letter in which it explained that the joint account had 
been set up as either to sign, meaning only one party to the joint account needed to be 
present for the account to be closed. They said that they made the necessary competency 
checks regarding Mr Js mental capacity and found him to be of sound mind, so they did not 
agree they had made an error when they closed the joint account. 
Mrs J was unhappy with the outcome and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator looked into it and said that they thought Nationwide acted reasonably when it 
closed the joint account on Mr Js request. This was because they felt Nationwide had asked 
relevant questions to ensure Mr J was mentally capable at the time and that he was aware of 
what he was being asked. 
Mrs J disagreed with this. She felt that V had accessed Mr Js online banking and had taken 
money from him. She reiterated that she felt V had manipulated Mr J into closing the 
account. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, I have focused on the closure of the joint account as that was the main focus 
of Mrs Js original complaint to Nationwide, the main focus of Nationwides final response 
letter and the view by the Investigator. I understand there are other points that Mrs J has 
mentioned, such as V accessing online banking, issues with a Power of Attorney that she 
says V registered and Mrs Js accounts being closed. However, I have solely focused on the 
closing of the join account. 
According to the notes on file, it was Mr J who closed the account on 21 September 2021. I 
do not have Mr Js specific version of events as to what happened and I also dont have 
testimony from the staff who closed the account. Where this is the case, I must consider 
everything available to me to determine what I think is most likely in the circumstances. 
As has previously been explained, the joint account was set up as either party to sign. This 
means that it was possible for either Mr or Mrs J to request for the account to be closed and 
the balance withdrawn and this could be completed without the other party being present. 
With this in mind, I dont think Nationwide made an error by allowing the account to close 
without Mrs Js input. 
Mrs J has said that Nationwide were aware of Mr Js vulnerabilities at the time of the account 
closure as she informed them in around May 2021. Nationwide have said that they were first 
informed of Mr Js vulnerabilities on 20 September 2021. I can see that a Power of Attorney 
for Mr J was not registered with Nationwide at the time that the account was closed in 
September 2021. However, I think that though there was no Power of Attorney to follow, 
Nationwide still had a duty to protect both Mr and Mrs Js financial affairs, keeping in mind 
Mr Js vulnerabilities.
I can see from Nationwides internal notes that they carried out their own checks on Mr J to 
ensure that he was mentally capable of making the decision to close his account. Nationwide 
cannot confirm the exact questions that would have been asked, as there appears to be set 
questions that can be chosen from but these will differ on each occasion. But they have 
confirmed Mr J was deemed to be mentally capable to make the decision to close the joint 
account. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied they carried out reasonable checks in 
this regard.
As the account was set up as either party to sign and following reasonable checks Mr J was 
determined to be capable of making the decision to close the account, I dont think 
Nationwide has made an error in the circumstances as I think they have carried out their 
obligations as I would expect. 
Because of this, I dont direct Nationwide to take any further action to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman