DRN-3774152
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds refusal of his business 
interruption cover under his business insurance policy. 
Mr H is represented in this complaint but I will refer to Mr H throughout. 
What happened 
Mr H runs a music production and rehearsal studios.  He rents out rehearsal rooms to 
commercial and non-commercial customers. 
In August 2020, Mr H contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business interruption, as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr H said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed 
in March 2020, he had to close his  business from March to July 2020, which resulted in a 
loss of revenue.   
Hiscox said the policy provided cover for additional costs of working arising as a result of   
Mr H not being able to use his premises following closure by a public authority, as a result of 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease within the vicinity of the insured premises. Initially it 
said that Mr H was not required to close and so there was no cover. However, it later 
accepted that Mr H would not be able to provide services to non-commercial customers (but 
would have still been able to continue to work with commercial customers) and therefore 
would have had to close that part of his business. So Hiscox said there might have been 
cover in principle for any increased cost of working which enabled him to continue to use the 
premises to offer rehearsal facilities. 
However, after consideration Hiscox said there were no additional costs incurred, as that 
part of the business wasnt open. While Mr H had to pay rent and his other bills, they were 
not additional costs; and any extra cleaning costs were only incurred after it re-opened. The 
rental of space or subletting to commercial customers was able to continue, so any costs 
involved in operating that side of the business did not trigger the policy cover. Hiscox 
therefore said there was nothing payable under the policy. 
Mr H is unhappy about this. He has made a number of submissions in in support of the 
complaint. Ive considered everything Mr H has said but have summarised the main points 
below: 
We were all told to work from home if possible. He contacted his local authority for 
guidance and was told to close the entire business.  
He has provided copies of emails between him and his local authority from June 
2020, which say it considered Mr Hs business was a recreational and entertainment 
venue and as such would be required to close. 
He has also provided correspondence where he asks the local authority if he could 
reopen and, after some further communication, was told he could re-open on 4 July 
2020 as long as he had a risk assessment. H reopened with reduced capacity and so 
was still affected by Covid-19 after reopening. 
Hiscox has not complied with the Supreme Court judgement in the Financial Conduct 
Authority business interruption test case.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst Mr H may have suffered business interruption and a loss of income, there was 
only cover for additional costs of working to enable him to operate for non-commercial 
customers and there was no evidence of such additional costs. The Investigator didnt think 
the claim was covered under any other part of the policy either. 
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment and he said the policy cover wasnt 
clear. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its evident from Mr Hs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant 
financial impact. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Policy Cover
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Mr Hs entire policy carefully. His policy includes cover for business 
interruption. Some policies will cover loss of revenue or loss of profit as a result of business 
interruption. Mr Hs policy doesnt cover loss of income, it only covers additional increased 
cost of working up to £10,000. 
This is defined in the policy as being: 
the costs and expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by you for the sole 
purpose of minimising the reduction in income from your activities during the 
indemnity period, but not exceeding the reduction in income saved.
The business interruption section of the policy provides cover as a result of a number of 
events, most of which clearly do not apply to the circumstances of this claim, as they require 
damage to the insured premises or property nearby. I have considered the section of cover 
that is relevant to this claim below. 
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for additional increased cost of working of caused by:
 
your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority. 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ss was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Mr Hs business alone. The court also made it clear that 
it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to use its 
premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would provide 
cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or 
for a discrete part of its business. 
So the question is whether or not Mr H suffered an inability to use his premises.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) set out which businesses were required to close in March 2020.
Mr Hs business doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically 
mentioned in the regulations brought into effect in March 2020, either as being a business 
that was required to close or that was permitted to stay open. 
Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude 
that Mr H was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I think that the non-commercial side of Mr Hs business would fall into the same category as 
the non-essential shops and services that were specifically listed in the regulations as being 
required to close. However, I do not think that the commercial side of the business would fall 
into the same category. 
Mr H has provided copies of email correspondence between him and his local authority. A 
local authority would be deemed to be a public authority in my opinion. 
However, I dont think there is enough evidence that the local authority told Mr H he had to 
close his entire business. An email dated 29 May 2020 said he could operate for commercial customers provided the person booking must be using it for their work and this must be 
something they cannot do at home. 
I therefore agree with Hiscox that Mr H was not mandated to close his entire business. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that Mr H and his commercial customers that might 
need to attend its premises, would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work when 
attending the premises. 
The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that might have had an impact on 
demand for Mr Hs services and the pandemic would also have affected the normal 
operation of the services Mr H supplies, which might also affect demand. However, this does 
not amount to an inability by Mr Hs to use his premises.  
But in any case, even if I were persuaded that there was an inability to use the premises for 
all customers, there is no persuasive evidence of an increased cost of working in relation to 
any part of the building or busines operation. The cover is only for the increased cost of 
working to minimise the loss of income during the period of indemnity. Mr H continued to pay 
the normal business bills and expenses through the period of indemnity but I am not 
persuaded these amount to additional costs of working. There were some additional costs 
after Mr H reopened, for sanitiser and cleaning products, but as these were after reopening 
(and therefore after the period of indemnity, they are not covered. 
The cover under Mr Hs policy was limited to increased cost of working and does not provide 
cover for this claim. I am not therefore persuaded that Hiscox acted unfairly in refusing the 
claim. 
Mr H says the policy cover wasnt clear. I think the terms set out above are sufficiently clear 
and Hiscox is entitled to rely on them.  If Mr H wishes to complain about the information he 
was given about the cover when he was sold the policy and whether the policy was 
appropriate for his needs then this would need to be addressed separately.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman