DRN-3286370
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited mis-handled a claim they 
made on their car insurance policy.
All references in this decision to AA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs A contacted AA to report that theyd been involved in a road 
traffic collision with a third-party and wanted to make a claim. AA accepted the claim and 
went about dealing with it.
Mr and Mrs A became unhappy with the lack of contact from AA and with the delay in their 
car being picked up for repair. Mr and Mrs A were told the repairs to the car were finally 
completed more than six weeks after theyd first reported the incident.
Shortly afterwards, Mr and Mrs A became unhappy with the repairs that had been carried out 
which resulted in more repairs having to be done. They paid for those repairs privately.
Mr and Mrs A eventually complained to us, having already complained to AA again in 2021 
without receiving a response. Our investigator looked into the matter and recommended that 
the complaint should be upheld. They asked AA to pay Mr and Mrs A a total of £350 in 
compensation taking account of the impact of the claim delays it had caused, the lack of 
communication throughout and its poor response to their complaint.  
AA didnt agree with the investigators findings. It accepted that there had been failings but 
thought a payment of £150 would be fairer in the circumstances. Because Mr and Mrs A 
didnt accept AAs counteroffer, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its no longer in dispute that AAs fallen short of the standards Mr and Mrs A reasonably 
expected to receive having made their claim in September 2020. The issue for me to 
consider is whether £150 represents fair compensation for the impact of its actions on 
Mr and Mrs A. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and to ask AA to pay £350. Ill explain 
why.
From the information thats been made available, I can see that AA made several errors over 
weeks and months which Im satisfied caused Mr and Mrs A a considerable amount of 
frustration and upset.  
These errors include, but arent limited to, delays in AA authorising the required car repairs 
and in telling Mr and Mrs A when they had eventually been completed. AA blames the 
COVID-19 pandemic in part, but I find it unlikely that would have been a significant factor by 
autumn 2020 given what AA needed to do at that time to progress the claim and simply 
provide an update.
AA failed to keep Mr and Mrs A up to date with its progress regarding the issue of liability, 
which had a bearing on their claims for uninsured losses. I realise other parties such as the 
Motor Insurers Bureau have had to become involved and that some aspects of the claim are 
beyond AAs control. But it still should have kept Mr and Mrs A updated given the clear 
importance of its progress to them and their frustration at the perception of being kept in the 
dark.
AA accepts it didnt address the concerns Mr and Mrs A raised in their email of October 
2020. Thats despite them clearly explaining the email should be taken as a formal complaint 
and that they would potentially escalate the matter to this service if necessary. They 
explained that the uncertainty caused by AAs lack of communication was causing them 
anxiety. The lack of response from AA likely only served to make matters worse for them.
Mr and Mrs A re-sent their complaint in August 2021 and again AA failed to respond. I can 
understand why this caused them considerable upset.   
In the circumstances, I dont consider that £150 as offered by AA adequately reflects the 
frustration and upset Mr and Mrs A have been caused throughout the whole claims process. 
I think AA largely exacerbated what was already a difficult situation for Mr and Mrs A given 
the collision that occurred and its effects. This resulted in disappointment and mistrust for 
Mr and Mrs A when theyd reasonably expected their claim to be dealt with in a professional 
and timely manner.
Putting things right
I require AA to pay Mr and Mrs A £350 in total as compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused them.
Going forward, AA should keep Mr and Mrs A updated as to the progress of their claim 
regularly and promptly and respond to any queries they might have within reasonable 
timeframes.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right for Mr and Mrs A as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman