DRN-1046645
Complaint
Mr R says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr R bought the policy in February 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
PPI provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think RBS made Mr R aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs credit card application form from the 
time of sale.
On the form, in a separate section for the PPI, I can see Mr R signed to say he wanted the 
PPI. So, I think RBS made it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional. And I think he agreed to 
it.
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R. Mr R on the other hand says it did. So Ive 
thought about what both parties have said, taking into account the available information from 
the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS 
assessed Mr Rs circumstances and made a formal recommendation that he take out the 
PPI. This means RBS didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure 
Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr R chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr R has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. He says this shows he didnt need the 
PPI as his existing work benefits were very good.Having thought about what Mr R has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI 
wasnt useful for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mr R would have received from his employer and would have potentially paid out for 
longer than the full pay he would have received. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr 
R was ever made redundant 
So overall, I think Mr R could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman