DRN-2767624
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt deal fairly 
with his claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants the level 
of compensation it offered to be increased to over £7,000.  
What happened
Mr W tells us that he booked a diving boat holiday for himself and his wife with a business Ill 
call D. The total cost including the flights, stopover and boat trip was invoiced at £9,920, 
which he paid using his Tesco credit card. Mr W states that the trip was advertised as being 
accompanied by a well-known professional photographer. And he said that the identified 
route included 10 days at a famous marine reserve. He says the photographer was not on 
board and the trip only spent five days at the reserve. He also complains that other features 
werent supplied including  but not limited to - baggage allowance, airport transfers, and an 
allocated top deck cabin. And that flight costs were greater than initially estimated.
Tesco told us that it recognised that it hadnt initially handled the case fairly. But after a 
further review it had accepted there had been a breach of contract / misrepresentations by 
D. And it had offered Mr W £2,000 (including £1,000 from the retailer) which it said 
approximated to 20% of the overall cost.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 March 2021. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. And that I thought thered been a breach of contract but that Tescos 
offer of compensation wasnt quite enough. And that I intended to award £2,385.
Since then both parties have replied. Tesco thought I shouldnt increase the sum it was 
willing to offer as it was sufficiently close to the figure I was suggesting. Mr W still didnt think 
the suggested award was sufficient enough to reflect those items which hadnt been 
supplied.
I thank both parties for their replies. Ive considered the additional comments. But for 
reasons Ill explain I dont think theres any new material information which would prompt me 
to change my provisional view. This is largely repeated in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W would be upset that several aspects of his holiday didnt match up to 
his expectations. And in particular the change of itinerary, cabin and absence of nominated 
photographer were major disappointments.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. As the statement must be 
one of fact, its rare for a statement about a future event to amount to a misrepresentation. 
Where a statement becomes false  due to a change of circumstances such as happened 
here  its more likely that a breach of contract has occurred.
I dont think that in the circumstances of this complaint it materially affects my decision 
whether a complaint issue is characterised as a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
With a misrepresentation the usual approach would be to try to restore Mr W to the situation 
hed have been in before the misrepresentation. And this might typically have meant allowing 
him to cancel the holiday. But as thats not possible and as Tesco hasnt disputed that there 
was a breach of contract, I conclude that the best means of resolving this complaint is to 
determine a fair level of redress.
I approach assessing the level of compensation on the basis that its primarily about the 
combined effect that the various omissions and alterations to the trip had on the enjoyment 
that Mr W was able to derive. 
Tesco made the point in its response to my provisional decision that calculating the correct 
amount of compensation wasnt an exact science. And that as its offer was sufficiently close 
to the figure Id reached, I should accept that it hadnt made an error.
I agree that reaching a figure which is a fair level of compensation in these circumstances 
isnt straightforward. Although some features  such as the flights - are more easily 
quantified  even allowing for a dispute about baggage allowances.
I also dont disagree with what I infer is its main point. Which was that simply because the 
sum that Tesco offered was less than the figure Ive reached  didnt necessarily mean that 
Tescos offer wasnt fair. 
I accept that here theres a probably a range of sums of compensation which could fall within 
the broad description of fair. And Im not criticising Tescos general approach. But for the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and which I repeat below I feel a slightly 
increased sum is appropriate.
Its not been disputed that some of the advertised features of the trip werent provided. Some 
changes would likely have a more serious effect than others. The alteration in itinerary and 
absence of a professional photographer would probably impact more than failure to provide 
an airport transfer. However inconvenient the latter might be.
I dont want to downplay the sense of disappointment and loss of anticipated enjoyment that 
Mr W and his wife experienced. But the underlying fact is that a trip of the same duration and 
including some but not all of the advertised features was provided. And where a contract is 
performed in part then its usually fair and reasonable for the supplier to be paid for those 
elements which were provided.Ive got to reach a determination which I think is fair to both parties. In doing so I recognise 
that neither party may feel completely satisfied.
Mr W has provided a calculation based on his view of the monetary value which should be 
applied to each issue. But as Ive explained unless every item can be precisely quantified 
thats not our usual approach. Although here it seems the flights cost around £2,150. And 
this service was substantially provided.
In his response to my provisional view, Mr W raised the issue of the loss arising from the 
failure to provide the agreed baggage allowance. And that he was faced with the choice of 
paying the excess or leaving behind some equipment. He chose the latter. Im unable to 
accept that because an excess charge would have been applied at the airport  had Mr W 
decided to pay it  that this translates into the same loss of value as that charge.
Having said that I accept that as a keen photographer Mr W wouldve been disappointed not 
to have been able to take all the equipment that he intended. But I think the measure of loss 
is more fairly assessed within the context of the loss of enjoyment in relation to the holiday 
as a whole. And not as a separate issue.
Also in relation to the flights I dont think there was any misrepresentation as to the cost. A 
prior estimate is not a statement of fact. More an opinion or guide as to the likely amount.
I believe that it would be fair and reasonable as a starting point, to base any compensation 
on the cost of the holiday excluding the flight costs and extraneous fees and ports taxes. 
(£9,920 - £2,150 - £620 = £7,150). The two latter items being services that were 
substantially provided or were mandatory payments.
There were significant changes to the itinerary and together with the absence of the named 
photographer, and Mr W not being able to take all the photography equipment he wished, I 
think its fair to say these issues wouldve had a substantial and detrimental effect on Mr Ws 
overall enjoyment. And that this would have diminished the value of the holiday provided. 
Other issues - whilst not to be discounted - would just add to the general level of 
dissatisfaction.
I understand the difficult nature of any assessment. But given that several of the missing 
elements were also amongst the prime selling points, I feel Tesco should have recognised  
more than it apparently did - that the failure to provide them would certainly have a greater 
than usual impact.
I find that a one-third reduction (33.3%) in that aspect of the price that Ive identified would 
be fair and reasonable. Rounded up thats £2,385.
Finally, Ill deal briefly with Tescos view that no interest should be added to the award as Mr 
W didnt accept the original offer of £1,000 from D. Its agreed that Tesco has already paid 
£1,000 (together with £100 for distress and inconvenience) to Mr W. So no interest is 
payable on that amount.
Im not looking at what D offered  nor am I able to make an award against D. This complaint 
is against Tesco. And my decision reflects what steps I feel it (Tesco) should take to resolve 
the complaint. So any award I make has to be against Tesco. How it then goes about 
recovering any sum from D is a matter for Tesco to decide.And Im not aware that there was anything to prevent D from acting as Tesco did - and pro- 
actively refunding the amount it offered. This could have been done on a without prejudice 
basis. It would only then have been necessary to decide if any sum above those amounts 
was due. I dont think its fair to describe a refusal to take an offer of settlement as a failure 
to mitigate loss. Particularly so when the sum offered is found to have been insufficient.
In summary, for the reasons Ive stated Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Tesco should take the following action:
Pay a total of £2,385 compensation to Mr W. This sum to include the £1,000 which has 
already been repaid.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be paid on the remaining sum of £1,385 
from date of payment to date of settlement.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to take the action Ive 
stipulated in the preceding section.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman