DRN-1204442
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the sum that Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid him 
under his motor insurance policy after his car was involved in an accident.
What happened
Following the accident, Mr T contacted Advantage to claim under his policy. Advantage 
deemed the car to be beyond the cost of economical repair, and declared it a total loss, or 
write off.
Advantage offered Mr T a settlement sum for his car of £4,280, less the policy excess. 
Unhappy with this amount, Mr T brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Having consulted motor trade guides, he 
concluded that the settlement offered was in line with the market value of the car.
Mr T disagreed with this view. He has highlighted that his car had brand new tyres on it, and 
a tow bar fitted. Mr T has commented that his car is a rare specification, and he does not 
consider that he can buy a replacement car of the same make, model and age with the 
amount paid to him by Advantage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy allows for Advantage to pay the market value of a car immediately before the 
loss where a vehicle is deemed to be a total loss. The market value is defined as the cost of 
replacing the car at the time the loss or damage occurred with another one of the same 
make, model, age and condition. 
In calculating its offer of settlement to Mr T, Advantage consulted trade guides. Our 
investigator similarly did so, to determine whether in his view the sum offered by Advantage 
was fair. In response, Mr T has questioned whether the trade guide values Advantage has 
used are fair, on the basis that this has not appropriately taken into account certain aspects 
of his car, such as the condition of his tyres.
I note that Mr T says he will not be able to purchase a like for like replacement for his stolen 
car with the settlement Advantage has paid him. However, trade guide prices are based on 
research carried out to find the actual selling costs of particular cars, and I consider it 
reasonable to take these into account when determining what the fair market value of a 
vehicle is. On balance my view is that the trade guides do provide the most appropriate 
method to determine the market value of Mr Ts car.
I acknowledge Mr Ts comments that he had recently purchased some new tyres for his car, 
and that it had a tow bar. I accept that for a prospective buyer, this may have added to the attractiveness of the car as a purchase. Overall however, I dont consider its been shown 
that these factors would mean that the trade guides are not a reliable way to determine the 
market value for Mr Ts car.
In conclusion, my view is that it was reasonable for Advantage to base its settlement figure 
upon the trade guides. Based on the market values produced by those guides,  I consider 
that Advantage has acted fairly when paying the settlement amount that it has. I appreciate 
that Mr T is likely to be disappointed with my findings, but I am not persuaded on the balance 
of the evidence provided that Advantage should be required to increase the settlement sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2019.
John Swain
Ombudsman