DRN-2955723
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with UIA (Insurance) Limiteds (UIA) handling and decision on a claim she 
tried to make under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S noticed water ingress and cracks to her home and reported this to her home insurer, 
UIA. An inspection was carried out, but it was concluded the cracks were due to water 
ingress as a result of the poor condition of the mortar, so UIA said this wouldnt be covered.
Ms B disagreed as she believes her home is suffering from subsidence damage, so she 
obtained her own report from a surveyor on the cause of the cracking.
UIA reviewed this and said the report concluded there were issues with the brickwork and 
the pointing was failing, and this was causing water ingress. The report also commented on 
likely corrosion of the cavity wall ties due to water ingress, and said the cracking indicated 
this as the cause. UIA said these issues wouldnt be covered by Ms S policy. However, UIA 
also acknowledged the report mentioned a potential issue with the drains and, as this might 
be something covered under Ms S policy, they appointed a drain specialist to inspect the 
drains. But these were subsequently ruled out as there werent any issues discovered during 
the inspection.
As a result, and based on the surveyors reported causes, UIA declined the claim on the 
basis there wasnt an insured event. Ms S was unhappy as she wanted her property 
monitored and the cracks repairing. So, she approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said UIAs 
contractor, whilst not a subsidence expert, considered the damage internally and externally 
and concluded the mortar and pointing was poor, allowing water ingress. Whilst they werent 
a subsidence expert, she didnt think this changed things overall. This is because Ms S own 
surveyor also didnt conclude there was subsidence in their report, so this didnt change the 
claim decision. She also said it was reasonable for UIA to rely on the conclusions reached 
by Ms S surveyor, and as theyd inspected the drains and these were ruled out, she didnt 
recommend UIA do anything further. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I understand it will be distressing to have damage caused to your 
home and appreciate itll disappoint Ms S, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
When the claim was made for cracking and water ingress to Ms S home it was agreed that 
shed get her own surveyor to inspect and report on the problems before looking to make a 
claim. However, as Ms S was then unable to, UIA agreed to appoint one of their contractors. 
They werent a subsidence specialist, but they were appointed as there was internal cracking 
and water ingress reported. So, they were asked to give their opinion in the first instance on 
the cause. Ms S is unhappy they were appointed rather than a subsidence expert.
UIAs contractor inspected and reached a conclusion on the cause. They said in their view, 
the cracks had been caused by a breakdown in mortar over time allowing water to penetrate, 
causing the internal cracks and damage.
Ms S says they didnt look at the internal cracks and only looked externally, but there are 
numerous photographs taken internally and externally. And theyve concluded the cracks 
internally are in the places where the mortar is poor externally. So, it does appear that they 
looked both internally and externally and considered where the mortar was poor outside, and 
where that had then caused cracks internally.
Ms S disagreed with the conclusions reached and appointed her own surveyor to inspect the 
cracks and cause. In the report carried out, and detailed conclusions, her own surveyor 
didnt conclude there was subsidence damage, or likely subsidence occurring, either. So, I 
dont think that UIA not appointing a subsidence expert in the first instance impacted things 
overall.
Ms S surveyor said they were appointed to inspect the cracks and there were three 
conclusions they reached on the cause. They noted Ms S had noticed the cracking four to 
five years ago, and it had got worse over the last three or four years. And that Ms S had 
mentioned the property had works done previously, but was unable to provide 
documentation or information to confirm this.
They said the pointing to the external brickwork was in a poor condition in all areas. They 
said the property had been re-pointed historically but that was failing. They also said the 
mortar behind the re-pointing was black ash mortar which can be corrosive to internal cavity 
wall ties.
They noted the rainwater downpipe connection wasnt correct, and was seen to be spilling 
over onto the adjacent walls and ground. They also noted the drain inspection chamber had 
been paved over.
Ms S surveyor concluded the cracking and structural movement was likely due to one of, or 
a combination of, the following:
Possible cavity wall tie failure
Water ingress and possible decay to hidden timber lintels
Defective connection of the front rainwater downpipe to the gulley
Possible defects with underground drainage to the left-side of the building
They said cracking and movement due to one or more of the above may be progressive. 
They then went on to give further details around these conclusions.Cavity wall tie failure
Ms S surveyor explained that cavity wall ties in a property of this age are prone to corrosion. 
And this can lead to structural movement. They said deterioration will undoubtedly have 
taken place and the cracks internally and externally are indicative of this. They also said the 
black ash mortar used in the original pointing will also exacerbate the corrosion. They said 
opening up works should be undertaken, but the cavity wall insulation could restrict this.
Water ingress and possible decay to hidden timber lintels
The surveyor said the poor condition of the external mortar pointing and cracking to the 
external walls will be allowing water ingress into the cavities. This would soak the insulation 
and corrode the cavity wall ties. They said in a property of this age there are possibly timber 
lintels and water ingress can lead to deterioration and decay of the lintels. They said this can 
exacerbate the cracking and movement around the window and door openings and further 
opening up may be necessary.
Defective connection of the front rainwater downpipe to the gulley and drains
Ms S surveyor said the poor connection of the rainwater downpipe to the gulley, could 
soften and displace the ground. They said that CCTV drains inspection would be needed to 
ensure there were no hidden problems with the drains in the area of movement. They 
suggested contacting the insurer, but also said some of the above conclusions might not be 
covered by Ms S policy.
So Ms S surveyor concluded that there were issues, as outlined, which were either 
individually, or combined, likely causing the movement and cracking. They didnt mention 
subsidence as being a cause, or suspected cause, in their report. But did say the drains 
should be inspected to see if there were hidden problems.
Ms S policy covers specific insured events, and also excludes damage caused gradually 
over time and corrosion. The corrosion of cavity wall ties and mortar over time isnt covered 
by Ms S policy.
Ms S is unhappy that UIA didnt agree to carry out further investigations into the cavity wall 
tie failure and water ingress caused by the poor external mortar. But as these arent insured 
events, then I dont think UIA acted unreasonably by relying on the expert opinion of Ms S 
surveyor concluding the cracks were indicative of this and not exploring these conclusions 
further.
However, the policy does cover damage to underground drains, and this was also a possible 
cause identified by the surveyor, which they said needed investigation. So, UIA agreed to 
appoint a specialist drainage company to carry out a survey. But following this, they didnt 
identify any problems with the drains, so that was ruled out from the list of causes identified 
by Ms S surveyor.
Therefore, from the likely causes identified by Ms S own surveyor, UIA has carried out 
further inspections around the drains element. This was something which might be covered 
under her policy. But as they ruled that out, and the other causes identified arent covered by 
Ms S policy, I dont think UIA acted unreasonably by not doing anything further and 
declining the claim based on the conclusions and report from Ms S surveyor.Ms S contacted the surveyor after, and they said that subsidence related issues couldnt be 
ruled out. But they didnt give any details or reasoning around that or that the property was 
subsiding, or indications of that, from what theyd seen. Theyve not mentioned or concluded 
that subsidence was likely, or indications of it, or the reasons why that could be a possibility 
in the report they carried out. Instead theyve given an explanation of the likelihood of it 
being cavity wall tie failure, and water ingress, due to the poor condition of the mortar and 
pointing. Theyve also identified and said the cracks are indicative of this. And this isnt 
covered under Ms S policy. 
The other conclusion reached was potentially a drainage issue, but this was later 
investigated by UIA and ruled out. So having considered the reports completed and photos 
of the damage, including Ms S surveyors reported conclusions, I dont think UIA has acted 
unreasonably by declining to do anything further at this stage as its not been shown that its 
likely subsidence damage.
But if Ms S does obtain any further specialist reports or expert opinions which support 
subsidence is likely present or potentially causing the damage, then she should submit this 
to UIA for consideration. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think UIAs conclusions, or 
relying on the conclusions reached in Ms S surveyors report, is unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman