The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the terms of a second charge loan on a buy-to-let 
(BTL) property which they took out with Castle Trust Capital PLC (Castle).
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Im also conscious that the history of what happened has been set out in detail in 
correspondence between the parties, and in the opinions issued by our investigator who 
initially looked at this complaint. In order not to identify Mr and Mrs S, I have deliberately 
kept the summary of events brief.
In December 2014 Mr and Mrs S took out a loan with Castle, secured on a BTL property, 
valued in October 2014 at £680,000 The loan  an original amount of £114,00  was a 
second charge loan, and was described as a BTL Index Profit Share (IPS) Mortgage in 
the loan documentation. This was an unregulated loan. 
Mr and Mrs S were advised to take out this loan by their broker. Originally theyd been 
looking at a ten-year equity loan, but were told by their broker and their solicitors that if they 
took out a five-year product, they were guaranteed that Castle would put them on another 
product for a further five years.
At the end of the five-year term Mr and Mrs S were required to repay the original amount of 
the loan, costs and fees relating to the administration of the loan and the amount of any IPS.
The index used to calculate the repayment amount was the Halifax House Prices Index (the 
index). The way this worked was that at repayment of the loan Castle would calculate, using 
the index, how much the average property price in that postcode had risen since the loan 
DRN-1719503was taken out, by percentage. The loan terms provided that Mr and Mrs S would be required 
to repay 200% of that amount. 
So, for example, if the average increase in property prices was 12% over the five-year loan 
period, Mr and Mrs S would be required to pay Castle 24% of the amount of the loan on 
redemption (as well as the fees provided in the loan agreement). There was a minimum 
repayment amount of 3.5%.
Mr and Mrs S accepted this offer of finance and the loan completed.
Statements were provided throughout the term of the loan which showed increases in the 
index of 17.3% (January 2017) and 18.7% (January 2018). Mr and Mrs S were concerned 
about this, as the increase was higher than theyd anticipated.
Looking for an exit strategy for this loan, Mr and Mrs S went back to their broker, with a view 
to arranging new finance with Castle at the end of the five-year term. Over the next few 
months attempts were made by the broker to arrange a new loan. There were several 
stumbling blocks, largely around the value of the property. Castle thought the property was 
worth about £820,000, but Mr and Mrs S said that, as a result of the effects of Brexit, their 
opinion was that the property was worth no more than £750,000.
Although Castle was willing to offer further financing, the amount it was prepared to lend 
would leave a shortfall in what needed to be repaid. Consequently Mr and Mrs S and Castle 
werent able to agree terms for a new loan. Eventually Mr and Mrs S engaged another 
mortgage broker to source finance from a new lender. 
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs S say that they looked in depth at the index, and realised 
that there were, in fact, a variety of indices. They noted there  was a new version of the index 
based on an updated methodology. They obtained details from the company which now ran 
the indices showing the old and new methodology, and also showing indices with and 
without seasonal adjustments. Mr and Mrs S say that because Castle has not used the new 
indices, they are having to pay back more than £50,000 more than if it had used them.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Castle, saying they were sold a product on the wrong 
premise, which has turned out to be very expensive for them.
Castle didnt uphold the complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for any advice Mr and Mrs S 
had been given in relation to this product. Castle also said that it had made no error in 
relation to the way in which it had administered the loan. Castle explained that it had 
considered Mr and Mrs Ss request for a refinance, and made its offer based on its current 
terms and conditions. No guarantee had been given that future finance would be made 
available.
Castle agreed to extend repayment of the loan to June 2020.
Mr and Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied Castle wasnt responsible 
for any advice given at the point of sale. He was also satisfied that the index applied to the 
loan was set out in the terms and conditions, and that Castle wasnt obliged to change this. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Castle wasnt obliged to provide further finance and 
that no guarantee had been given about this.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they say their 
main concern is that they were persuaded by their broker to take out this product, based on 
their understanding that, although it was only a five-year term (rather than the ten-year term theyd originally wanted), because their broker and solicitors had told them that Castle was 
guaranteed to offer them a new loan at the end of the term.
Having found this not to be the case, Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy that the cost of the 
loan has turned out to be much higher than theyd anticipated, primarily, they say, as a result 
of the broker not understanding  and so not properly explaining  how it worked.
Mr and Mrs S also maintain that the original index is wrong and that failure to correct this is 
a breach of Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I confirm Ive given careful consideration 
to everything Mr and Mrs S and Castle have told us and read all the documents provided.
Mr and Mrs S have said they want to provide further indices in support of their contention 
that Castle is using the wrong index. But, as will be clear from what I have said below, Im 
satisfied I dont need to see this.
After considering everything Mr and Mrs S and Castle have said, Im afraid Ive some 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs S: Im not upholding their complaint, for the reasons 
given below.
Mis-sale of the loan: The loan was an unregulated agreement, but as Castle is in our 
compulsory jurisdiction, I can look at the regulated activity of lending secured on land, so I 
have jurisdiction to consider the complaint against Castle.
Ive looked at the loan agreement and, although this isnt a mainstream mortgage product, 
the terms and conditions, mortgage offer and correspondence from Castle explain clearly 
how the product works. 
This was a commercial product not a residential home loan. As such, Mr and Mrs S were 
considered to be commercial borrowers. This means it was up to them to exercise their own 
judgment and reach their own decision about whether the loan was suitable for their 
purposes, taking their own advice if necessary. Advice was given by Mr and Mrs Ss brokers 
and by their own solicitors.
The loan wasnt sold by Castle. and no advice was given to Mr and Mrs S by Castle about 
this loan. It was arranged through Mr and Mrs Ss own independent financial adviser. Castle 
isnt responsible if either the adviser or Mr and Mrs S misunderstood how the product 
worked. But looking at the loan agreement and the documents provided during the course of 
the loan, Im satisfied the loan wasnt mis-represented by Castle. Mr and Mrs S have had the 
product they were offered. 
The wrong index has been used: The loan agreement sets out clearly the Index that will 
be used to calculate the cost of the product taken out by Mr and Mrs S. The redemption 
figure was quoted on the basis of that index.
I note Mr and Mrs S have carried out their own calculations, using a different index. Their 
argument is that, if Castle had used that index, rather than the one specified in the loan 
agreement (which Mr and Mrs S argue has become obsolete), then the redemption figure 
would be over £50,000 less than the figure reached using the index set out in the loan 
agreement.Castle provided this product to the commercial lending BTL market on the basis of the index 
specified in the loan agreement.  Its up to Castle to decide what products to offer to the 
market, and on what terms. That index is still, as Mr and Mrs S have noted, being updated, 
notwithstanding there are other methodologies for the calculation of indices which provide 
different data.
The loan was offered to Mr and Mrs S on the basis of the index quoted in the loan 
agreement. As commercial customers, Mr and Mrs S were free to accept or reject the offer 
of finance from Castle, using their own commercial judgment to determine whether this 
product was suitable for them. But, having accepted the loan offer and agreeing to a binding 
contract, its not now open to Mr and Mrs S to seek to vary the terms of the agreement 
unilaterally on terms which are more favourable to them. 
Castle hasnt agreed to any recalculation of the redemption figure using an alternative index 
which provides a lower repayment amount than the one set out in the contract. And I have 
no power to vary the contractual terms which both parties are bound by. Only a court is able 
to do so.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator. So although Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ss 
comments concerning what they say are regulatory breaches by Castle, this isnt something 
which falls within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We dont have any power 
to enforce regulations. 
Overall, Im satisfied Castle is entitled to administer the agreement and calculate the 
repayment figure in accordance with the index specified in the contract. 
Difficulties arranging replacement finance: Ive looked at the terms and conditions which 
apply to this loan agreement. Clause 4.4 of the terms and conditions says:
Provided you apply to us in writing at least 60 days prior to the end of the term, we will offer 
you a further loan on our standard terms effective at the time and subject to our standard 
underwriting criteria and restrictions then in force.
Im satisfied that this term is clear that any offer is subject to lendi ng criteria. If Mr and Mrs S 
were told otherwise by their broker or solicitors, thats not something Castle is responsible 
for.
I note that Castle has provided various options for refinancing, in line with its lending criteria, 
and, as an exception, extended the term for repayment of the loan to enable Mr and Mrs S to 
explore their options.  In all the circumstances, I think this is fair and that Castle has acted 
reasonably.
Conclusions
After careful consideration, Im not persuaded Castle has done anything wrong here. It 
offered a product to Mr and Mrs S which they accepted, on the terms specified in the 
contract. Castle is entitled to offer products to business customers such as Mr and Mrs S on 
terms it considers to be commercially appropriate. Its up to Mr and Mrs S to decide whether 
to accept those terms or not.
After taking advice, Mr and Mrs S entered into a legally-binding agreement with Castle. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S, having carried out their own research, now regret taking out this 
loan. But in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Castle has not treated Mr and Mrs S 
unfairly or unreasonably by offering them this product. Im also satisfied that Castle is not required to use any other index than that specified in the contract, or to calculate the loan 
repayment other than in accordance with the contract.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were hoping for. If they reject this decision, 
it wont be legally binding on them or Castle, and theyll be free to pursue their grievances 
against Castle through the courts, should they wish to do so. Mr and Mrs S might want to 
take legal advice before embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman