DRN-3649548
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, wont reimburse 
the funds he lost when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In January 2020, Mr K was contacted by someone who claimed to be a representative of a 
trading firm called ProfitiX. Mr K was persuaded to invest, and he made three payments 
using his Tesco Bank credit card to deposit funds. Unfortunately, ProfitiX later turned out to 
be fraudulent.
To facilitate his trading account with ProfitiX, Mr K first sent money to a cryptocurrency 
exchange platform called Pradexx. It converted his funds into cryptocurrency and then sent it 
on to the intended destination. Mr K made the following payments using his Tesco Bank 
credit card:
Date Merchant Amount
21 January 2020 Pradexxpayments £2,073.99 
(plus £57.03 foreign exchange fee 
and £85.03 cash transaction fee)
21 January 2020 Pradexxpayments £1,769.98 
(plus £48.67 foreign exchange fee 
and £72.57 cash transaction fee)
22 January 2020 Pradexxpayments £1,189.90 
(plus £32.72 foreign exchange fee 
and £48.79 cash transaction fee)
Total loss £5,378.68
The first two payments triggered Tesco Banks systems and it checked that Mr K had indeed 
made them. It sent him a text message on the first occasion and called him the next time. 
Mr K eventually realised hed been scammed and reported the matter to Tesco Bank in 
March 2020. It declined to refund the transactions or raise a chargeback. Unhappy with this, 
Mr K complained to Tesco Bank before referring the matter to our service.
Our investigator ultimately thought that Tesco Bank ought to have sufficiently questioned 
Mr K when it called him after hed authorised the second payment. It was their view that had 
this happened, it would have stopped Mr K from going ahead with the payment (and the 
subsequent payment). The investigator asked Tesco Bank to refund the second and third 
payments along with associated fees, making a deduction of 25% for contributory 
negligence. 
Tesco Bank didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovery
Ive first looked at whether Tesco Bank could have done more with regards to the recovery 
of Mr Ks funds once he reported the matter to it.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  MasterCard in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Our service has sought clarification from MasterCard, and it has explained that if a merchant 
(in this case the crypto exchange platform) doesnt make funds transferred to it available for 
use in the type of transactions for which it received them (in this case, converting fiat money 
into cryptocurrency), then there may be a chargeback right. 
But this isnt what happened here. The nature of Mr Ks claim is that hed fallen victim to a 
scam. Given that MasterCard has made it clear that there would be no reasonable prospect 
of success through its scheme for claims of this nature, I dont think Tesco Bank acted 
unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback.
Duty of care
While I dont think that Tesco Bank could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Mr Ks funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought 
to have prevented them from sent in the first instance.
The disputed payments were authorised by Mr K using his legitimate security credentials. 
So, under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable unless theres evidence that Tesco 
Bank could and should reasonably have done more to protect him against the risk of fraud 
and scams, and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making.
Tesco Bank ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer was at 
risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before processing payments 
or declining them altogether to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered that the payments were sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. And I 
accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading 
scams in 2018. And in May 2019 Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams 
had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is something that regulated businesses, 
including Tesco Bank, ought to take notice of. 
What this means is that even if Mr K had been sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange, it didnt follow that his money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm 
due to fraud or a scam. By the time Mr K made the payment, I think Tesco Bank had or 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases 
cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre moving it 
into their own wallet or account.  
Ive considered the operation of Mr Ks account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments. It appears that Mr K had been gradually reducing an outstanding balance on his 
credit card in the months prior and had not used it for new purchases. So, the first payment 
of just over £2,000 does appear to be uncharacteristic for the account activity. That said, 
I also accept that it isnt unusual to make a one-off large-value transaction from time to time. 
But Tesco Bank did intervene at the time  it sent Mr K a text message to confirm it was him 
making the payment. Given the amount involved and what appeared to be a one-off 
transaction at the time, this type of intervention doesnt seem unreasonable. 
The second payment on the same day was slightly lower in value, but it triggered Tesco 
Banks fraud detection systems once again. And this time, the flagged payment warranted a 
phone call to Mr K instead of a text message. Given the payment was to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, and the second such payment Mr K had authorised in a relatively short period of 
time, I consider it would have been reasonable for Tesco Bank to have properly questioned 
Mr K before releasing the payment. 
Ive listened to the intervention call. I find that the agent didnt enquire about the payment in 
question at all. The questions asked were around confirming Mr Ks identity and checking 
that it was indeed him who had authorised the payment. Had Tesco Bank carried out its due 
diligence and duties and asked Mr K about the payment, Ive no reason to doubt that he 
would have explained what he was doing and the true purpose of his payment to Pradexx  
that he was sending it on to ProfitiX. Hed been given no reason to think he had to hide this 
information from his credit card provider, and neither had he been coached to tell them 
something different.
At the time of the payment, a warning about ProfitiX hadnt yet been published by the FCA. 
But warnings had been published about it on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organisation Securities Commissions (IOSCO) by the Financial Markets Authority in New 
Zealand. I acknowledge that the warning regarding ProfitiXs fraudulent practices had only 
recently been added. So, I wouldnt have expected Tesco Bank to have had the chance to 
update its watchlist and automatically block any payments to ProfitiX. But Tesco Banks 
fraud detection system had triggered nonetheless, and it blocked the payment pending 
further investigation. An opportunity to look into the intended beneficiary further was missed.
I accept that Tesco Bank had no duty to protect Mr K from a poor investment choice or give 
investment advice when discussing the payment. But it could have provided information 
about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they 
are dealing with a legitimate person or firm  such as checking the firm was authorised by 
the FCA. Tesco Bank could have also drawn on its own knowledge and information that was 
in the public domain  mentioned above  about the high risk associated with trading and the 
potential for fraud and provided Mr K with a potential scam warning.
Had Tesco Bank done more, Im satisfied that Mr K would have looked further into the 
investment opportunity in general, including whether ProfitiX was regulated here in the UK or 
abroad. He could have discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Mr K M would have 
come across the various warnings Ive mentioned above. 
Im persuaded that Mr K would have paid attention to warnings from his trusted bank, and 
that a meaningful intervention from Tesco Bank would likely have exposed the scam. It 
follows that I also think its more likely than not that the intervention would have caused Mr K to stop from going ahead with the payment, thereby preventing further losses. I therefore find 
that Tesco Bank is liable for Mr Ks losses from that point.
Contributory negligence
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr K is partly to blame for what happened. And 
having done so, I think that he is. Mr K told us that he checked Trust Pilot reviews before 
deciding to invest. But as the investigator pointed out, majority of the published reviews said 
that ProfitiX was a scam. Mr K doesnt appear to have carried out sufficient independent 
research into the investment, the firm, or the investment type to reassure himself that the 
opportunity as presented to him was genuine. 
I think that Mr K ought to bear some responsibility for his losses and that compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. Having thought about this carefully, I consider that it would 
be fair to reduce compensation by 25%.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Tesco Bank needs to: 
1) Refund 75% of the last two payments (including foreign exchange and cash 
transaction fees);
2) rework Mr Ks credit card account to reimburse any interest and charges levied 
directly because of the two payments; and 
3) Pay simple interest at 8% per year for any period where the account was in credit 
because of the above steps, calculated from then until the date of settlement (less 
any tax properly deductible).
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman