DRN-3592572
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss Js father saw an advert for a travel agent on a social media platform. He wanted to go 
and visit his and Miss Js family, so he got in touch with the travel agent and gave them his 
contact details. The next day, he received a phone call and agreed to buy flight tickets. 
When he tried to pay for them, Miss Js fathers card wouldnt work, so Miss J gave the travel 
agent her card details instead. Unfortunately we now know the travel agent was a scammer.
The scammer said they would book the tickets using Miss Js card details and asked her to 
send them the one-time passcodes that were sent to her phone to verify the payments, 
which she did. But instead of booking flight tickets, the scammer used Miss Js card details 
and passcodes to send money through an international money transfer service. A total of 
three payments were made from Miss Js account, although one has been refunded by the 
money transfer service.
Miss J says she realised something was wrong when the scammer said he would give them 
a refund, but needed her to send him another passcode before he could do so. She said she 
wouldnt send him anymore passcodes and the scammer then ultimately ended the call and 
didnt return any of their later calls. Miss J then raised the scam with HSBC and asked that 
the payments be refunded.
HSBC investigated but said, as Miss J had given the scammer her card details and the one-
time passcodes, she had authorised the payments. So it didnt agree to refund the money 
shed lost. Miss J wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They felt Miss J had authorised the payments by 
giving the scammer her card details and the one-time passcodes. They also didnt think the 
two remaining payments were unusual enough that HSBC should have asked any further 
questions before allowing them to go through. So they didnt think it would be fair to ask 
HSBC to refund the money Miss J had lost. Miss J disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the third payment Miss J made has already been refunded by the money transfer service, 
Ive only considered the remaining two payments.
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed payments on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Miss J accepts that she gave the scammer her card details and the one-time passcodes. 
She knew the scammer was using those details to make payments out of her account. And 
she knew the amounts of those payments. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, I think Miss J did authorise the payments. And so the starting 
position is that she is liable for them and HSBC doesnt have to refund the money she lost.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Miss J was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done more to protect her.
From looking at the statements for Miss Js account, I can see it wasnt used frequently. But 
the payments to the scammer werent for particularly large amounts. They didnt reduce the 
balance of the account to an unusual level or use up a significant amount of the available 
balance. And I dont think the two payments formed a pattern that would have appeared 
particularly suspicious either. So I think its reasonable that HSBC didnt identify that Miss J 
was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of either of the two payments, and so didnt ask 
any further questions before allowing them to go through.
Ive also considered whether HSBC could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told about the scam. But the money was sent to a money transfer service, who 
appear to have just transferred the money as they were instructed to do. And while Miss J 
has said she contacted HSBC immediately and that the payments were still pending at that 
point, this doesnt mean HSBC could stop the payments being sent out. So I dont think 
theres anything more HSBC could reasonably have been expected to do to try to recover 
the money.
I sympathise with the position Miss J has found herself in. I appreciate how she feels about 
this case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the reasons set 
out above, I dont think HSBC has acted unreasonably. I dont think anything HSBC could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped her losing her money. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to require it to refund the money she lost.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman