DRN-1744597
complaint
Ms R has complained that Santander UK Plc will not refund any commission it received from 
her store card payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy she took out in 
March 1994.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has received had the answer on her complaint about the mis-sale. So I will only be 
dealing with her complaint about the commission in this decision. 
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
to Ms R, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Santander has given me information that shows Ms Rs store card was taken out in March 
1994 and ended in November 2010. However, it seems that although the store card was 
running beyond 6 April 2007 Ms R didnt pay any PPI premiums from August 2003. So 
based on what Ive said above, although the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, and the rules and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here it seems there is no financial loss for 
Ms R as she didnt pay any premiums from August 2003.
So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Ms R paid for the PPI she had 
with her store card. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman