DRN-1895782
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to the inadvertent issue of a statement 
for a previously closed account, and the non-receipt of promised compensation.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr W and TSB, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr W closed an account he had with TSB in July 2018. In October 2019 he received a 
statement for that account and so lodged a complaint. TSB were unable to explain why the 
statement was issued but apologised and in their final response letter said they had 
enclosed a cheque for £25. TSB have accepted that the cheque was actually not in that 
letter, but a separate letter of the same date, and they apologised for that error in service. As 
Mr W said he did not receive that cheque, a further cheque was sent in March 2020 which 
he also didnt receive. Since bringing his complaint to this service Mr W has also said he 
received another statement incorrectly issued to him but has been unable to supply any 
evidence of this.
TSB accepted their errors but felt the £25 compensation offered was enough to put matters 
right and that they couldnt be responsible for the postal service and letters going astray.
Mr W was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded there had poor service by TSB and the amount of compensation it had 
offered Mr W was insufficient. An increase to £50 was suggested as being a fair and 
reasonable resolution.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is 
not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I think is right for each 
case, and thats what Ive done here. The evidence shows that TSB have accepted that there was an error on their part in sending 
out the statement in October 2019. There is no evidence to corroborate Mr W's assertion 
that a further statement was sent out, and as TSB deny doing so, without such evidence it 
would be unfair to find that it was. TSB also accept that their final response letter 
was incorrect in stating the cheque was enclosed when clearly it wasnt.
I have seen evidence that TSB did however send a separate letter enclosing the cheque, 
and whilst it is unfortunate that Mr W did not receive it, I am satisfied from that evidence that 
it was sent. And whilst there was another attempt to issue a replacement cheque which also 
wasnt received I cant fairly say that was as a result of anything TSB did either. But Mr W 
made TSB aware of not receiving the cheque and yet it took a considerable amount of time 
for a replacement to be issued and I think that is further poor service.
Mr W has also complained that when he called TSB regarding the missing cheque he feels 
he was accused of having cashed the cheques and making a request for a replacement. 
There are 3 recorded calls, 2 on the 17 December and 1 on the 20 December. From those 
calls there is nothing which suggests such an accusation was made, and although I can see 
that our investigator asked Mr W to provide details of any other calls he might be referring to, 
it appears none have been forthcoming.
TSB has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should compensate Mr 
W. As such it offered Mr W £25 and more recently agreed to pay an additional £25 in 
accordance with our investigators view. 
As Mr W hasnt accepted this view, Ive given it some further thought and in so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. 
Ive also considered, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on 
Mr W. I have taken account of the fact that Mr was kept out of his compensation cheque for 
some time and the receipt of a statement from an old account. But that account was closed 
and didnt affect Mr Ws financial position. I do appreciate it would cause him some concern 
perhaps as to the integrity of TSBs systems, but overall I think the impact upon Mr W was 
low.  
I can accept that problems and issues such as these very often lead a customer to 
experience frustration, annoyance and inconvenience, which we as a service term trouble 
and upset. When we find this has occurred we think about what a business could do to put 
matters right, and awarding compensation is one way of doing that. But awards for the 
trouble and upset need to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life 
we all face when dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising 
that that can be inconvenient at times. 
Putting things right
Putting all of this into the balance I do think that an award of £50 in this instance would be 
fair and reasonable, and enough to put matters right. TSB has already made an offer to pay 
£25 to settle the complaint, and I think they should pay a further £25, making a total sum of 
£50. 
My final decision
So, my final decision is that TSB should pay Mr W £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman