DRN-3841485
The complaint
Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) were unreasonable not to refund her money 
when she made a chargeback claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by Visa and they 
set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice 
for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Barclays did submit a chargeback claim and in those circumstances the money spent on the 
transaction is temporarily refunded to the consumer whilst the claim is being assessed by 
VISA. Barclays explained that process to Mrs P when they wrote to her in March 2022, they 
said:
We don't want you to be out of pocket so we've temporarily refunded you with GBP 2820.00 
while the investigation is finished - this usually takes up to eight weeks, but can take longer.
But when the merchant defended the claim and Mrs P didnt respond to Barclays within the 
timescales allowed by the scheme in order for an arbitration of the claim to take place, the 
money was taken back, and the merchant reimbursed. 
I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here. They werent administering the 
chargeback claim and had to comply with the rules set by VISA. Those rules set a time limit 
to arbitrate the claim further and as Mrs P didnt respond to Barclays request to provide 
information to assist in that arbitration the claim failed, and Barclays arent allowed to raise it 
again.
I can understand Mrs Ps disappointment and can see that she thought the claim had been 
resolved in her favour. It must have been frustrating to find her claim had failed especially 
when it appears the claim may have some merit. Unfortunately, the chargeback scheme was 
the only process available under which Barclays may have been able to assist Mrs P. But 
that doesnt necessarily mean shes unable to recover the money through the courts; thats 
something I can see Mrs P is considering.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman