DRN-2339333
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly added charges to her account. 
What happened
Miss M had a current account with TSB. In May 2019 she made a payment of around £40 
that took her into an unarranged overdraft. After this she stopped using the account.
Over the months that followed Miss M was charged fees for going into an unarranged 
overdraft and interest on the amount. TSB wrote to her requesting payment, but no further 
payments were received. In November 2019 TSB defaulted the account and it was moved to 
the recoveries team.
In December Miss M made a complaint to TSB. She said she hadnt been aware that she 
owed the money and thought the fees were unfair as she now owed around £500. She said 
she hadnt been informed about this before the account was defaulted. 
Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had written to her on a number of occasions and 
hadnt received a response. It also said the fees and charges were in line with the account 
terms and conditions.
Miss M didnt think this was fair as she said she hadnt received any of the letters. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that the charges were inline with TSBs terms and conditions, so he didnt think they 
were unfair. He also said TSB had provided evidence that letters had been sent, so he was 
satisfied that it had attempted to contact Miss M. 
Miss M didnt agree so her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss M went into an unarranged overdraft on her account in May 2019 it was due to a 
payment of around £40. Since then a number of fees and charges have been added 
meaning she now owes around £500. I appreciate this is significantly more than she 
originally owed so I understand why she feels this is unfair. In order to decide whether TSB 
has treated her fairly, I have considered the terms and conditions of the account as well as 
what TSB has done to make Miss M aware of the money owed.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account. These lay out when fees and 
charges will be applied to the account. They explain that when a customer goes into an 
unarranged overdraft there will be fees charged for every day the amount isnt paid back. 
However this is capped at a maximum of £80 for every billing period. It also explains that 
interest is charged for any unarranged lending.
I have looked at the fees and charges applied to Miss Ms account and I am satisfied that 
these are in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So although I appreciate Miss 
Ms frustration that the charges amount to more than the original amount owed, I dont think 
TSB has acted unfairly here. It has applied fees and charges in line with the terms and 
conditions and these are only high because the unarranged lending hasnt been paid for a 
number of months. 
Miss M says that she wasnt informed about the debt that was building up on her account 
until it was moved to recoveries. We would expect a bank to inform its customers of the 
money owed, especially where charges were mounting up. So I have considered whether 
TSB has done enough to make Miss M aware.
TSB has said that it sent a number of letters throughout the time the money was owed. It has 
provided copies of these letters. I can see the letters explained what Miss M owed, why and 
the consequences of not paying it back. So Im satisfied that TSB gave Miss M notice of 
what she owed and time to make payment before defaulting the account. 
Miss M has said she hasnt received these letters. TSB has provided screenshots from its 
internal systems that show the dates the letters were posted out. So I can see these were 
sent. There may have been problems with delivery of these letters that meant Miss M didnt 
receive them, but I cant say TSB are responsible for that. Further, I can see from the 
Internal notes provided by TSB that it also tried to contact her by phone on numerous 
occasions but was unsuccessful. So when I consider all this together, I think TSB did enough 
to try and make Miss M aware of the money she owed, and of the consequences of not 
paying it. So I dont think it has treated her unfairly and I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require TSB Bank plc to do anything differently 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman