DRN-4190081
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr G is represented in this case but to make things clearer Ill refer to Mr G throughout this 
decision.
Mr G says that a friend of his recommended an airline Ill refer to as E to book flights to 
Africa. E is a genuine airline. He looked on Es website and at reviews of E and provided his 
contact details. Mr G then received a call from someone he believed to be an agent of E ([E] 
Tickets office). Ill refer to the agent in this decision as T. After the call, Mr G received 
messages from T via a messaging app. The messages showed Es logo but were sent by T 
and included links that used Es name. 
Mr G communicated with T about flights for three adults and two children and was provided 
with flight pre-booking information showing flights had been reserved and the names of 
those travelling. The messages Mr G was sent said that tickets must be paid for within 24 
hours of booking, or they would be cancelled. The cost of the flights was discussed, and Mr 
G was asked to make the following payments:
Date Amount Recipient
06/08/22 £500 1
06/08/22 £500 1
06/08/22 £1,000 2
06/08/22 £1,000 2
06/08/22 £1,000 2
06/08/22 £445 2
Total £4,445
Mr G says that T told him that as it was the weekend, payee 1s account reached its limit and 
so the remaining funds needed to be paid to a different account. Payee 1 and payee 2 were 
not E or T  but payee 1s name was related to E and payee 2s name related to tickets. Mr 
G was told he needed to pay in instalments as Ts account couldnt accept large payments. 
Mr G thought this was plausible because he has an account with another bank that stops 
larger payments. Mr G was also told that it wasnt possible to pay by card. 
Mr G didnt receive the tickets as expected. He was initially told this was because he made 
the transfers over the weekend and then that one of his £500 payments hadnt been 
received. T then stopped communicating with Mr G and he raised a scam claim.  
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Monzo says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case. It says Mr G made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing it was a genuine payment. Monzo says Mr G ought to have 
done more checks to make sure the payee was legitimate. 
Mr G was unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis to believe that E was a genuine airline because:
- The scammer communicated with Mr G via a social media messaging app.
- The spelling and grammar used in the messages was poor and unprofessional and 
the scammer wasnt knowledgeable.
- Mr G was told to make smaller payments to two different accounts because Monzo 
couldnt handle large transactions but knew this not to be true - as he paid £2,945 
into his account on the day of the scam. 
- Mr G relied on what the scammer told him without completing any checks  if hed 
have looked at Es website, hed have seen it was a scam. The website showed that 
E communicated with some customers via the messaging service, but not customers 
in the UK.
- The scammer told Mr G Es address was different to the one displayed on its 
website.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
- He first made contact through Es website and received a return call when he was 
told hed be contacted by someone from customer relations. He then received 
messages from the messaging app. In any event, many legitimate companies, 
including E, use the messaging app. Other agencies Mr G had used in the past also 
communicated in this way. 
- Mr G didnt notice poor spelling and grammar in the messages. And airlines with 
international reach employ people who arent native English speakers, so Mr G had 
no reason to be concerned. 
- Mr G was told Es card payment system wasnt working. He didnt think it was 
unusual that Es bank didnt accept large payments as he was aware there could be 
problems with them. 
- Mr G asked about Es address and was given a branch address to use for future. He 
knew the address given wasnt Es main address.
- There were many factors that made this scam convincing including the fact the 
scammers faked a real airline so reviews related to that airline, the names of both 
payee companies wouldnt cause concern. The price was reasonable, Mr G received 
a recommendation from a friend, the scammers were knowledgeable, and Mr G 
received invoices as hed expect. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider, and I issued my provisional decision on 22 
May 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Mr G under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Mr G from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr G was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Mr G to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
G and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr G made are enough to support its position that it can rely 
on an exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person he transacted with was legitimate. I should 
say that its the combination of these factors that lead me to believe Mr G didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief and that none of them can be considered alone. 
-Mr G dealt with various different parties believing they were all linked. But I dont 
consider he acted reasonably in doing so. If Mr G thought he was booking flights with 
E, I find it hard to understand why he then received a call and messages from T. Mr 
G did no research into T and appears to have assumed T was an agent of E. 
-A large airline like E would accept card payments and so I think Mr G ought 
reasonably to have considered it strange that he was told he couldnt pay using this 
method  which offers protection when things go wrong. 
-Mr G paid two different companies, neither of which were E (or T). I think Mr G ought 
reasonably to have had concerns about why a large airline like E would ask him to 
pay accounts not in Es name. I also dont find the explanation given to Mr G (that it 
was the weekend and the first account had reached its limit) was plausible. An airline 
like E takes huge sums of money daily and has the capacity to do so.  
-Mr G says the cost of the flights were reasonable and in line with what he expected. 
But I note the tickets Mr G thought hed reserved were for business class seats not 
economy seats. Taking this into account, I consider the tickets were being sold at a 
price that wasnt realistic.  
-The email Mr G received that was signed by a senior sales consultant from E was 
from a disposable temporary email address, which ought reasonably to have caused 
concern. 
-Although I accept that some businesses use the social messaging app used by T and 
that the grammar isnt always as good as it could be, Im not persuaded the 
messages Mr G received were professional. Mr G received messages that said 
things like, I told you make £989 and four consecutive messages that said, Make 
rest, £3,000 received, £800 make and hello. Im not persuaded a business like 
E would communicate in this way and think Mr G ought to have had concerns. 
-Although Mr G says he received an invoice I havent seen one. When I asked for an 
invoice, I was provided with booking reservations and a booking confirmation email 
(from a temporary and disposable address that I referred to earlier). Id expect to see 
an invoice from E showing a cost breakdown and other details and consider that Mr G ought reasonably to have had concerns about making the payments based only on 
messages that set out the cost of a ticket for an adult and a child. 
Overall, I dont consider Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with and 
paying E or an authorised agent of E. 
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr G? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think Monzo shouldve provided Mr G with 
effective warnings when he made the earlier payments as they were relatively low value 
payments and in keeping with previous account use. But by the time Mr G made the third 
payment of £1,000, a pattern of potentially fraudulent transactions had emerged, and I 
consider Monzo ought reasonably to have identified a risk and provided an effective warning. 
It was Mr Gs fifth payment of the day to a second new payee and took the total amount paid 
to the second payee to £3,000. Monzo will be aware that scammers often ask victims to 
make multiple payments like this.  
Monzo has explained that it provided Mr G with new payee warnings when he made the first 
payment to each new payee and also what it describes as a low friction warning. No warning 
was provided when Mr G made the third £1,000 payment (or the subsequent payment) so it 
follows that Monzo didnt provide effective warnings when I consider it should have. For 
completeness, even if Monzo had provided its low friction warning when the third £1,000 
payment was made I wouldnt conclude the warning was effective. So, Im provisionally 
minded to direct Monzo to refund Mr G 50% of the final two payments
Recovery
Mr G first contacted Monzo on 8 August 2022 but at this stage said he didnt know if he was 
a scam victim and had been told tickets would be sent. He was asked if he wished to raise a 
scam claim then or wait until 6pm to see if the tickets arrived. Mr G updated Monzo to say he 
was waiting for the tickets and on the evening of 9 August Monzo asked Mr G if he thought 
he was dealing with a genuine company. Mr G then decided he wanted Monzo to contact the 
banks that received his funds. Monzo set out some questions late that evening that Mr G 
answered early in the morning on 10 August. Once Monzo had gathered the information it 
sent the information to its disputes team and this team reached out to the receiving firms. So 
although Mr G first contacted Monzo on 8 August, this isnt when he raised a scam claim. 
Ive seen evidence which shows that Monzo contacted the two firms that received Mr Gs 
funds promptly once the scam claim was raised. Payee two in the table above confirmed that 
no funds remained to return to Mr G. Payee one hasnt provided a full response to Monzo or 
to this service when weve made contact to find out exactly when funds left the account. But 
given that the payments to payee one were made before those to payee two, I consider it 
more likely than not that when the scam claim was raised the funds had been removed. 
Scammers usually move funds on immediately to avoid the risk of them being returned to the 
sender.   
Overall, whilst I realise Mr G will be disappointed with my provisional findings, I cant fairly 
ask Monzo to refund more than half of the last two payments plus interest as set out below.
Monzo accepted my provisional decision. Mr Gs representative let me know that Mr G 
accepted my provisional decision but still wanted to submit his comments. In summary, Mr G 
said:
- Hes been scammed so should receive a full refund plus interest.
- Monzo should have identified the scam and stopped the payments from being made. - The customer service provided by Monzo was poor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision (reproduced above) I see no reason 
to depart from it. I will make a few comments on Mr Gs response to my provisional decision 
though. 
Whilst I fully accept that Mr G has been the victim of a scam this doesnt automatically mean 
that Monzo should refund his loss. I explained in my provisional decision that a bank may 
choose not to reimburse a scam victim in certain circumstances. I think Monzo has fairly 
relied on an exception to reimbursement because, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont consider Mr G had a reasonable basis to believe he was buying genuine 
tickets from a legitimate agent. 
Im uncertain on what basis Mr G thinks Monzo should have identified that he was being 
scammed at the time he made the payments. I cant see there was anything unusual that 
Monzo should have picked up on until Mr G made the third payment of £1,000 when a 
potentially fraudulent pattern of transactions emerged. The early payments were relatively 
low in value and were in line with normal account use. I also dont think the service provided 
by Monzo was poor. Monzo kept in contact with Mr G via its chat and communicated its 
decision on his case within a reasonable timeframe.  
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman