DRN-1137325
the complaint
Mrs L complains that MYJAR Limited gave her loans that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mrs L took out three short term loans with MYJAR. Loan 1 was repayable by six monthly 
instalments. Loans 2 and 3 were repayable by 12 monthly instalments. 
Loan 3 hasnt been repaid. Mrs Ls loan history is as follows:-
Loan 
number Date of Loan Loan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount  Repayment date
1. 3/9/2017 £500 £147.68 28/2/2018
2. 7/4/2018 £900 £133.69 16/12/2018
3. 14/2/2019 £750 £119.19 Unpaid
Mrs L said that MYJAR continued to lend to her despite her struggling with county court 
judgements. She was desperate and was faced with arrears on her rent and bills. Shed had 
severe financial difficulties for years and her health had been severely affected.
MYJAR said that it had asked Mrs L for her income and regular expenditure and conducted 
a credit check. It also took into account a minimum amount for household expenditure and 
Mrs Ls borrowing from other lenders. MYJAR said that it had competed appropriate and 
proportionate affordability checks based on the number of loans, amounts, terms and Mrs 
Ls repayment history. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs L disagreed. She asked for an ombudsman to review the case. She said that she wasnt 
able to repay the loans as much as she wanted and trying to get out of debt had taken a toll 
on her health. So her decisions werent the best. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
For all of Mrs Ls loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it made before lending to Mrs L. I note from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Mrs Ls income as well as details about her housing costs, other 
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. MYJAR used statistical expenditure data 
and revised Mrs Ls stated outgoings to take account of these. I also note that MYJAR 
carried out a credit check and have seen a summary of the credit checks for all the loans. I 
note that these dont appear to contain any information about defaulted accounts or county 
court judgements. I shall refer to the other information in the checks below.
Ive seen Mrs Ls credit report which covers the period until Loan 2 only. This showed that 
Mrs L had five defaulted accounts and a county court judgement registered against her in 
the year before Loan 1 and two defaulted accounts and a county court judgement registered 
against her in the year before Loan 2. 
But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, Mrs Ls defaulted accounts 
and county court judgements may not have been identified by MYJARs credit check. This 
may explain any differences between the information provided by MYJARs credit check and 
Mrs Ls actual situation and that I cant safely conclude that MYJAR was aware of Mrs Ls 
defaulted accounts and county court judgements when she applied for her loans.
Ive thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. I note that for 
Loan 1, Mrs L needed to make six monthly repayments of around £147 to repay it. I can see 
that the repayments were relatively modest compared to the income of £1,400 Mrs L 
declared to MYJAR. 
I note that MYJARs credit check showed shed opened no new accounts in the previous 
three months although the balances on three of the accounts had increased in the previous 
three months. The check estimated Mrs Ls unsecured debt at £12,852. Overall I can see 
that Mrs Ls other borrowing might have suggested to MYJAR that her finances were under 
pressure. But I dont think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so large that its obvious 
they wouldve caused Mrs L financial difficulty.
On balance, I think that the checks MYJAR carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were 
proportionate. And given Mrs Ls repayment amounts for Loan 1, what was apparent about 
her circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mrs L provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying.  So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mrs L.
Mrs L repaid Loan 1 on the due date. Around six weeks later, Mrs L took out Loan 2. The 
loan amount had increased to £900. Whilst the monthly repayments were around £14 lower 
than for Loan 1, they were to be repaid over 12 months. So Mrs L was committing to making 
those repayments over a far longer period than her previous loan. But I note that Mrs Ls 
declared monthly income had increased to £1,500, although her expenditure also appeared 
to be higher than previously. 
I can see that MYJARs credit check showed shed opened no new accounts in the previous 
three months. And I note that Mrs Ls own credit report shows no short term loans open at 
the time of her application for Loan 2 and confirms that shed opened no new accounts in the 
previous three months. MYJARs credit checks also showed the balance on one of Mrs Ls 
credit accounts had increased in the previous three months. The check also appears to 
show that Mrs Ls estimated unsecured debt was £3,405.  
Overall, I think that the checks MYJAR carried out before agreeing Loan 2 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mrs L needed to make on Loan 2 were still relatively 
modest compared to the income that she declared to MYJAR. And again I dont think the 
repayments were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mrs L financial difficulty.
So given Mrs Ls repayment amounts for Loan 2 and what was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mrs L provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying.  So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mrs L.
I appreciate that Mrs L said that she was desperate and faced with arrears on her rent and 
bills. But that wasnt something she told MYJAR about when she asked for her loans. So 
unless Mrs L had disclosed the arrears on her bills, I cant say that MYJAR would have 
found out about them with the proportionate checks it did before Loans 1 and 2 which I think 
were fair. 
Mrs L repaid Loan 2 early. And Loan 3 was taken out around two months later. The loan 
amount and monthly repayment amounts had decreased to £750 and around £119 
respectively. And I note that Loan 3 was again repayable over 12 months. I also note that 
MYJARs credit checks before Loan 3 showed that Mrs L had taken no new credit accounts 
in the previous three months. 
But the balances on five of Mrs Ls accounts had increased in the previous three months. 
Moreover her estimated unsecured debt appears to have increased to £5,404. I also note 
that Mrs L had been borrowing from MYJAR for around 14 of the previous 17 months. So I 
dont think that Mrs L was getting to grips with her borrowing. I appreciate that MYJAR had 
asked Mrs L for her income and expenditure, but for the above reasons, by the time of Loan 
3, I dont think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on that information. So I think it would 
have been proportionate for MYJAR to do some additional checks such as asking Mrs L for 
more information about her short term borrowing commitments.
I would normally look at the borrowers credit report and bank statements to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Ive not seen Mrs Ls credit 
report or bank statements for the month before Loan 3. I note that the adjudicator did ask for 
these in July 2019 and again in September 2019 but it doesnt appear that weve received 
these. So I cant say that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks, it would have found that 
Mrs L couldnt afford to repay Loan 3 sustainably. So I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to 
give Loan 3 to Mrs L.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this isnt the answer 
Mrs L had hoped for and Im sorry to read about her health problems and financial 
difficulties. I understand that Mrs L hasnt repaid Loan 3 and note that MYJAR said that it 
was happy to set up a repayment plan. If Mrs L currently has financial issues, I would remind 
MYJAR of its responsibility to treat Mrs L in a positive and sympathetic manner about the 
amounts she should repay.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman