DRN-3403089
The complaint
Mr F complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly provided him 
with an unaffordable loan when he already had multiple other short-term loans outstanding. 
What happened
Mr F took out a Cashfloat loan as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 18/10/2019 13/12/2019 3 £300 £158.17
When Mr F complained to Cashfloat it didnt uphold his complaint so Mr F brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and Cashfloat told us about this 
loan and didnt feel this was a complaint we should uphold.  
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
Cashfloat should have noticed that he had numerous active short-term loans reported on his 
credit file at the time. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Cashfloat provided Mr F with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Fs income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. The 
lender had to think about the risk of adverse consequences or financial difficulty for the 
borrower  not just the risk to the lender.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Fs application after carrying out all the proper checks. It told 
us it relied on information Mr F provided about his monthly income (which it took steps to 
verify) and his expenditure as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency  
which it has sent me. 
Looking at the information Cashfloat had gathered before agreeing this loan, I think its 
fair to say that Cashfloat could see that Mr F had a long established record of taking out 
short term loans and its credit checks showed that Mr F had at least six other short term 
or unsecured high cost loans outstanding when he applied to borrow this loan from 
Cashfloat  all taken out within the previous three months or so. I think the information 
Cashfloat saw shouldve made Cashfloat realise that it looked like Mr F was having 
serious problems managing his money. And I think that concern is supported by other 
information it saw showing that Mr F had recently gone over the credit limit on a second 
credit card  hed been over the account limit on another credit card for the last six 
months. 
Im not suggesting that having other outstanding credit is necessarily a bar to taking out a 
loan. And I appreciate that it isnt unusual for borrowers of this type of loan to have other 
credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history. But I think Cashfloat 
shouldve realised that having multiple other short term loans outstanding when he 
applied for this loan, along with the other indications that he was having trouble managing 
his money, suggested that Mr F was in financial difficulty and he had become over-reliant 
on using this sort of borrowing to supplement his income. It could also have seen that the 
cost of Mr Fs existing credit commitments was already around half his take home pay  
which suggested his borrowing had gone beyond a sustainable level. 
Despite what its affordability assessment appeared to show, I think it was apparent that the 
information evident in the credit checks Cashfloat obtained contradicted what Mr F had told 
the lender so it shouldve been clear to Cashfloat that it couldnt rely on its affordability 
assessment. And overall, even though this was a relatively small loan, I still dont think it 
was reasonable for Cashfloat to conclude that it was likely that Mr F would be able to pay 
this loan sustainably.
The fact that Mr F repaid the loan doesnt mean he was able to do so in a sustainable 
way.
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think Cashfloat shouldve granted this loan to Mr F 
and so, as things stand, Im planning on upholding his complaint.I havent seen enough to make me think that Cashfloat acted towards Mr F in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to award any additional redress. But Im 
planning to tell Cashfloat it needs to take steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr F accepted what Id said in my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the conclusions Id drawn from looking at Mr Fs credit history and 
summarised its position as follows:
Mr F has received one small loan from Cashfloat and had no other advance against income 
loans listed as open on his credit file. His credit file displayed no late payment markers 
throughout the history of the report and his total indebtedness was significantly lower than 
average. We believe Cashfloat has lent responsibly to Mr F and have followed both the rules 
of the FCA and also those of previous FOS decisions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Cashfloat for the detailed consideration it has given to its response to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to assure Cashfloat that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming 
to my final decision. And whilst I am addressing what seem to me to be the main points of 
concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account everything they have 
asked me to reconsider.  
The fact that Mr F had no other short-term loans open on his credit file and there were no 
late payment markers doesnt mean he was on top of his financial situation. 
Im grateful to Cashfloat for drawing my attention to the fact that it was apparent that Mr F 
had at least four unsecured loans open when he applied for this loan  not six as mentioned 
in my provisional decision. I apologise for that error but it doesnt affect my overall view. 
Cashfloat was able to see that during the three months running up to him applying for this 
loan Mr F had taken out five other unsecured loans  hed repaid one of those shortly before 
applying for this loan but the four loans still outstanding were costing him £596 each month. 
That figure alone amounted to more than a quarter of his take home pay and this didnt 
include Mr Fs contractual monthly repayments to his credit cards  both over limit and 
maxed out throughout the 8 months period Cashfloat saw reported on in its credit checks.
I think that with this level of spending on credit, together with the pattern of lending and 
Mr Fs use of credit cards, it shouldve been apparent to Cashfloat that he had become over-
reliant on expensive credit and it was evident that he was in financial difficulty. With the loan Cashfloat provided, this boosted his monthly credit spending to more than a 
third of his net pay. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Fs monthly 
income Cashfloat couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that he would be able to meet his 
debt servicing costs in a sustainable way and its loan would be detrimental to Mr Fs 
financial situation as it would add unsustainably to his total debt burden. 
For these reasons, its still my view that, in this particular instance, Cashfloat provided this 
loan irresponsibly when it was unaffordable for Mr F. 
I appreciate that Cashfloat takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Our normal approach to redress is intended to put Mr F, as far as possible, in the position 
he wouldve been in had he not taken the loan. But the money has been spent. So I think 
it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because 
he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has had to pay interest on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
So I think it is fair and reasonable for Cashfloat to refund everything Mr F has paid over 
and above the capital amount that he borrowed, with interest.
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr F, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing).
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may 
not have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.Cashfloat should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, fees 
and charges on this loan, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr F the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.   Whilst its fair that Mr Fs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Cashfloat should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should take the 
steps set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman