DRN-3899880
The complaint
Miss T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled her claim on a
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include
employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2013. For the
year from September 2021, Miss T had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
Admiral. Any claim for damage to the car (except a windscreen) was subject to an excess of
£200.00.
Unfortunately, on 15 February 2022 the car was damaged in an accident. Miss T had a
conversation with Admiral. It said her car was a total loss. She said she wanted to keep the
damaged car and asked if that would affect the settlement of her claim. Admiral didnt
mention a salvage fee.
Miss T got her car back and had it repaired, at a cost to her of £1,165.59. The car passed
an MOT test and on 19 February 2022, Miss T told Admiral about that.
On 23 February 2022, Miss T called Admiral. It told her the policy had been cancelled from
21 February 2022  but it reinstated the policy on 23 February 2022.
Miss T complained to Admiral that it had left her driving uninsured for two days.
Admiral paid Miss T as follows:
pre-accident value of the car £6,800.00
less salvage fee £2,244.00
less excess £   200.00
paid to Miss T £4,356.00
Miss T complained to Admiral that it hadnt told her about the salvage fee.
By a final response dated late March 2022, Admiral upheld the complaint and apologised.
Admiral said it should have advised on 15 February 2022 that the salvage fee would be
deducted. Admiral said the policy was cancelled on 21 February 2022 due to human error.
Admiral assured Miss T that it wouldve provided cover if an incident had arisen. Admiral
said it was sending Miss T a cheque for £250.00 as compensation.
Unhappy with that, Miss T brought her complaint to us without delay. Miss T told us that if
Admiral had told her of the salvage fee, she wouldnt have kept the vehicle. She says that
she had to pay to repair the vehicle as well as the £2,244.00 salvage fee.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
Miss T was provided with incorrect information and made her decision to keep the vehicle
based on this. The investigator recommended that Admiral contribute 50% towards the costs
of the repairs to the vehicle which is £583.00 (in addition to £250.00 which was fair for
distress and inconvenience.)
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss T   
and to Admiral on 20 December 2022. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find it fair that Admiral made a deduction as high as £2,244.00 without 
warning Miss T or getting her agreement that she wanted to keep the car at that cost. 
I considered that a more usual level of salvage deduction wouldve been 15% of the 
pre- accident value.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral not to charge a salvage 
fee of any more than 15% of the pre-accident value  that is £1,020.00. And I was 
minded to direct Admiral to pay Miss T the difference between that figure and its 
figure of £2,244.00, that is a difference of £1,224.00.
As she will have been out of pocket for some time, I was minded to find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Miss T interest at our usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Miss T or from Admiral, I intended to direct Admiral  
to pay Miss T (in addition to its payment of £250.00):
1. £1,224.00 in part refund of its salvage deduction; and
2. simple interest on £1,224.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of her claim to the 
date of Admirals refund. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its 
taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Miss T accepted the provisional decision.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor policies contain a term that if the insurer decides that a claim results in a total
loss of the vehicle, then the insurer will pay the pre-accident value of the vehicle and the
damaged vehicle will become the property of the insurer.
It follows that a policyholder who wishes to pursue a claim and keep the damaged vehicle
must make a salvage payment or agree a salvage deduction. I would expect the insurer to
tell the policyholder its proposed salvage figure, so that the policyholder can decide whether
- in effect - to buy the vehicle back from the insurer at that cost.Admirals policy terms included the following:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to.
 conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf
 inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask
 stop cover immediately and cancel your policy if your vehicle is deemed a total loss
or is stolen and unrecovered
 once the claim is settled your vehicle will become our property.
So Admirals policy terms contained a term that the vehicle would become its property. I
didnt find that term easily or under a heading where I would expect to find it. Nevertheless
its not an unusual term and I dont find it unfair.
I accept that Admiral wouldnt have declined any claim on the grounds of its mistaken
cancellation for two days in February 2022. Nevertheless, I dont doubt that Miss T was
upset by the thought of what mightve happened. Also, I accept that she was worried that
Admiral might make a similar mistake again. So she kept checking online to see that the
policy hadnt been cancelled.
Admirals salvage fee of £2,244.00 was 33% of its pre-accident valuation of £6,800.00. I
consider that to be a high proportion of the pre-accident value. But I accept that Admiral had
a (confidential) commercial arrangement under which another company wouldve paid
£2,244.00. So I dont find that amount unfair in itself.
Miss T had said that she wanted to keep the car. However, from a call recording, I find that
Admiral gave Miss T incorrect and inadequate information about keeping the car. Believing 
that there was no salvage deduction, she was willing to pay for repairs, even though the car 
would carry the stigma of having been written off and repaired.
I accept that  if Admiral had told her that it proposed a salvage deduction of £2,244.00, then
she wouldnt have kept the car and paid for repairs. I find that Miss T was upset when she 
found out that she had paid for repairs and had suffered a salvage deduction of £2,244.00. 
Putting things right
Admiral tried to put things right by sending Miss T a cheque for £250.00. I consider that this
was fair for the extra distress and inconvenience it had caused her at an already difficult
time.
However, I dont consider that £250.00 went far enough towards putting right the fact that
Admiral hadnt told Miss T about a salvage deduction or its amount of £2,244.00  and she
had acted to her detriment by keeping the car and paying for repair.
Ive thought about how Admiral should try to put things right for Miss T. I dont find it fair to
direct Admiral to contribute towards the cost of repairs, as Miss T had wanted to keep the
car. I dont find it fair to direct Admiral not to make any salvage deduction, as the damaged
car wouldve become its property.
However, I dont find it fair that Admiral made a deduction as high as £2,244.00 without
warning Miss T or getting her agreement that she wanted to keep the car at that cost. I
consider that a more usual level of salvage deduction wouldve been 15% of the pre-
accident value.So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral not to charge a salvage fee of any more than 
15% of the pre-accident value  that is £1,020.00. And I will direct Admiral to pay Miss T the 
difference between that figure and its figure of £2,244.00, that is a difference of £1,224.00. 
As she will have been out of pocket for some time, I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to pay Miss T interest at our usual rate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss T (in addition to its payment of 
£250.00): 
1. £1,224.00 in part refund of its salvage deduction; and
2. simple interest on £1,224.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of her claim to the 
date of Admirals refund. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its 
taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman