DRN-2009918
The complaint
Miss C complains that Avantcredit of UK, LLC (trading as AvantCredit) granted her a loan 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2015, Miss C took out a loan with AvantCredit for £4,500. It was to be paid off over 
36 months in instalments of £199.72 per month. The APR was 39.79%.
Miss C later complained to AvantCredit that it shouldnt have granted her the loan. 
AvantCredit said it was satisfied it had properly assessed the affordability of the loan before 
deciding to provide it. 
Miss C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns and thought her complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
unlikely Miss C would have been able to sustainably repay the loan. 
AvantCredit disagreed with our investigators view. It said Miss C had stated the purpose of 
the loan was to consolidate some of her existing credit commitments. Its affordability 
assessment showed Miss C would have had a disposable income of £191.28 before taking 
the reduction in expenses from the consolidation into account. Miss C made the majority of 
her payments as contractually agreed and repaid the loan in full as per the loan agreement, 
leading it to believe the loan was both affordable and sustainable.  
As AvantCredit disagrees with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required AvantCredit to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Miss C could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for AvantCredit to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Miss C undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Miss C was taking out a loan for £4,500 and was committing to repay it over a period of 
three years. AvantCredit was required to establish whether Miss C could do so sustainably. 
In other words, that she would be able to do so without undue difficulty, while being able to 
meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
AvantCredit asked Miss C for information about her income and expenditure and says it also 
examined her credit file to identify any pre-existing debt obligations. According to Miss Cs 
application she had a net monthly income of £2,094. Shed given her total monthly 
expenditure as £1,095. AvantCredit says it also considered Miss Cs credit obligations which 
were listed as £608 on her credit file. On the face of it, Miss C appears to have had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments of £199.72 a month. 
But I think the information AvantCredit gathered from Miss Cs credit file ought reasonably to 
have given it cause for concern. This showed she had opened 5 accounts in the last 3 
months, 12 in the last 6 months and 23 in the last 12 months. Shed opened 2 short-term 
loan accounts in the last 3 months and 8 in the last 6 months. The total value of the short 
term loan accounts opened in the last 6 months was £2,395. Her total debt (which didnt 
include a mortgage) was £12,335. 
AvantCredit says that as Miss Cs loan was for debt consolidation, her monthly repayments 
would have been reduced. But given the level of overall indebtedness, I think AvantCredit 
ought reasonably to have realised that any debt consolidation was likely to be limited. I 
havent seen anything which suggests it asked Miss C to clarify what impact this debt 
consolidation would have on her monthly outgoings. I think in the circumstances, 
AvantCredit ought to have realised from its checks that Miss Cs financial position might not 
have been made clear in her application and she might have underestimated some of her 
outgoings.
This should have prompted AvantCredit to gather further information to satisfy itself that she 
could sustainably meet her loan repayments over the three year loan term.  I think it ought to 
have realised that it needed to look further into Miss Cs financial position  for example by 
asking to see her bank statements. 
Miss C has sent us copies of her bank statements for the three months leading up to her 
loan application. While her usual salary reflected what shed put on her loan application 
(£2,094), her monthly contractual obligations were much higher than shed stated  at an 
average of around £2,100. Its clear from the statements that Miss C was relying heavily on 
short term lending to supplement her income. Shed taken out a total of £1,000 through 
short-term loans in the two months leading up to her AvantCredit application.
While different checks show different things, I think if AvantCredit had carried out what Id 
consider to be proportionate checks, it would have discovered more about Miss Cs financial 
situation. And it ought reasonably to have realised that she was having problems managing 
her finances and would most likely have difficulty making her loan repayments without 
borrowing elsewhere. It follows that AvantCredit should reasonably have realised that Miss C 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay her loan and concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to her. 
I appreciate Miss C had paid off the loan in full by August 2018, as contractually agreed. But 
I dont think this shows she was able to do so without undue difficulty. She says she had to 
borrow elsewhere and prioritised the loan over essential bills. 
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. So AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments    
Miss C made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Cs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman