DRN-4284909
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G have complained about a secured loan they have with Mars Capital Finance 
Limited.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G took out the loan in July 2005. They borrowed £96,000 (plus PPI) over 25 
years.
The account went into arrears in 2005 and has remained so since then, with the situation 
worsening over the years. From the transaction history it appears the last month a full 
contractual monthly payment (or more) was made was in June 2007.
The loan was originally taken out with a different lender and has then been transferred. Mars 
took on the loan in May 2019 and since that date no interest has been charged on the 
account.
Since Mars took over the loan in May 2019 (up until June 2023 which is the last update we 
hold) Mrs and Mr G have made eight payments totalling £950, against 49 payments that 
should have been made totalling over £50,000.
The complaint Im considering here was responded to by Mars on 8 March 2023 and was 
referred to us a few days later. In a call with our Investigator in April 2023 Mrs G confirmed 
the final response letter from Mars was an accurate representation of what she had 
complained about. 
The final response letter dealt with the following complaint points:
You believe your loan was mis-sold.
You are unhappy with having to provide the same information to different account 
managers when this should be recorded on your account. This is causing you stress.
You are unhappy you have not received call backs when agreed.
You are unhappy with being sent threatening letters when you are trying to sort this 
matter out. This is causing you upset.
You are unhappy with the monthly arrears fee of £40.00 being applied to your 
account.
You previously discussed re-mortgaging with Mars Capital but received no response.
Mars only upheld the point about the call backs, and emails not always being responded to 
appropriately. It apologised for those issues and offered £250 compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint and said he felt the £250 
compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs and Mr G didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I wont be considering anything that has happened outside of the points Ive listed above, 
such as issues that happened once the complaint was with us. Anything that has happened 
since the complaint has been with us would need to be treated as a separate matter, subject 
to Mrs and Mr G formally complaining and referring those matters to us, of course.
For ease of reading, I will break the points down into sections.
The sale of the loan
This complaint is about Mars, and it only has responsibility for things that have happened 
whilst it has owned the loan; that is, since 13 May 2019.
For that reason, I cant consider whether the loan was mis-sold as part of this complaint.
Repetition of information to different account managers
I can understand why Mrs and Mr G didnt want to have to repeat themselves, nonetheless I 
dont find that it was unreasonable for Mars to want to have those conversations with them.
The account had been in arrears for a long time, and there was no arrangement to pay in 
place. Payments were sporadic and, when made, were for much less than the contractual 
monthly payment. Mrs and Mr G had said at various times that they would make payments 
of a certain amount, but generally those offers didnt bear out into actual payments being 
made to the account.
Against this background, I think its understandable that Mars asked for updates on the 
situation rather than simply relying on what Mrs and Mr G had said previously.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Call backs
It isnt in dispute that Mars didnt call Mrs and Mr G back when it should. Mars apologised 
and offered £250 compensation for that and other issues with its correspondence. 
In my view, that is fair and proportionate to the likely effect of the error. If no offer had been 
made, I would not have awarded more for that issue. 
I make no additional order or award for this part of the complaint.
Tone of the letters
I can see that Mars has sent Mrs and Mr G letters relating to the status of the account and I 
understand why these letters may be unwelcome.It is good industry practice for Mars to keep customers updated of arrears and potential next 
steps, and it is what I would expect to see.
Having considered the wording of the letters I dont think the tone was threatening, or that 
they contained anything I wouldnt normally expect to see in such correspondence. I can 
understand that receiving such letters could be distressing, but that doesnt mean Mars was 
wrong to send them or that the language used was inappropriate.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint
The monthly arrears fee
The charges Mars makes when a loan is in arrears are set out in its tariff of charges. Im 
satisfied that they are clear and the charges Mars has added to Mrs and Mr Gs loan account 
are in line with the tariff.
However, I also have to consider whether the charges were applied fairly. I think they were. 
The account was in arrears, no payment arrangement was in place, payments were very 
sporadic and, when made, were for much less than the contractual monthly payment, and I 
can see from the contact notes that Mars was actively in contact with Mrs and Mr G. 
Mars carried out some arrears administration, and I consider it was fair for it to have applied 
the relevant charges to the loan account for that.
Whilst I acknowledge Mrs and Mr Gs difficulties, the arrears fees are an integral part of the 
account and can be charged in these circumstances. Having considered everything there 
are no grounds for me to order these be reversed.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
No response to a discussion about remortgaging
From Mrs and Mr Gs submissions and the contact notes it seems the main reference to this 
point relates to something that happened before the loan was with Mars so were unable to 
consider that issue here against Mars.
That said, from the emails it seems the issue may have been raised again with Mars. Mars 
isnt an active lender nor is it regulated to give advice, so it wouldnt be able to help Mrs and 
Mr G in that way. All Mars could do is discuss a settlement figure with Mrs and Mr G if 
theyre able to arrange financing elsewhere. 
I can see this was dealt with by email in May 2021 with Mars saying For us to consider a 
discounted payment offer, we would require a completed Income and Expenditure form with 
3 months of bank statements, 2 independent property valuations and your proposals to 
settle the account.
If Mrs and Mr G can arrange a remortgage elsewhere then I would encourage them to go 
back to Mars with their proposal and the information Mars asked for.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In summary
In relation to financial difficulties, the starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all 
customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the 
right to receive payment of the money owed to it.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. Mrs and Mr G have, however, had long-term difficulties over many years.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help but balanced against 
that is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable.
In the period Im considering here (that is between May 2019 and March 2023) Mars has 
gone through Mrs and Mr Gs income and expenditure with them on a number of occasions 
and, whilst the figures Mrs and Mr G have provided have varied due to their circumstances 
changing, they havent been able to demonstrate ongoing affordability to repay this loan over 
a reasonable time frame.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mr G, but I can't say that Mars 
has acted unfairly here.
My final decision
Mars Capital Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Mars Capital Finance Limited should pay £250. I make no further 
order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman