DRN-2685559
The Complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC asked him to visit one of their branches to provide 
photographic identification to enable him to withdraw funds he had deposited into an account 
which they had closed.
What happened
Mr G made an online current account switch application to Lloyds in October 2019. The 
application was unsuccessful but when Mr G asked Lloyds to return the funds he had 
deposited, he was told that he would need to visit a local branch with photographic 
identification to withdraw the funds.
The nearest branch to Mr Gs home address was 150 miles away, so Mr G complained to 
Lloyds about the inconvenience this would cause him.
Lloyds sent their final response on the matter to Mr G in early November 2019. In the 
response they said they were sorry that Mr G felt a 300-mile round trip was inconvenient, but 
they couldnt transact on the account without seeing photographic identification.
The complaint wasnt resolved to Mr Gs satisfaction, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He agreed that it was inconvenient for Lloyds to 
expect Mr G to visit a branch 150 miles from his home. But he thought it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to ask to see identification from Mr G before they could transact on the account. 
Our investigator said there were now alternative ways the identification could be provided, 
and he recommended Lloyds pay £25 to Mr G for the inconvenience caused by not offering 
an alternative solution sooner.
Mr G was unhappy with this resolution and the amount of compensation suggested by our 
investigator, so he asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Lloyds have since offered to re-open the account and return the funds to the originating 
account without seeing any photographic identification.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021 in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im minded to 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained my reasons below. 
In November 2020 Lloyds agreed to re-open the account and return the funds to Mr 
G. So once Lloyds arrange for this to happen, the issue of returning the funds will be 
resolved. 
However, I need to consider the impact this situation has had on Mr G, if it was fair to 
ask him to make this journey to get his money back and whether any compensation 
is warranted in the circumstances.
When Lloyds originally told Mr G he would need to visit a branch in order to retrieve 
his funds, they were acting in line with their normal processes for this type of 
situation. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to request to see Mr Gs 
identification. However, once Mr G complained that it would require a 300-mile round 
trip, I think Lloyds shouldve looked at what other options were available. 
When the complaint reached our service and was assigned to one of our 
investigators, he tried to negotiate alternative options with Lloyds in respect of having 
these funds returned without the need for Mr G to make such a long journey.
The UK was already in lockdown at that stage, so I think it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to persist in asking Mr G to make this journey if he wanted the funds returned. 
I think it is fair to say that alternative arrangements should have been made at an 
earlier stage considering the specific circumstances of this complaint.
By the time Lloyds decided they could re-open the account and return the funds to Mr 
G without seeing the photographic identification, we were already a year down the 
line from when the complaint was first made to them. During this time, Mr G has had 
to make numerous phone calls and send numerous emails to try and reach a 
resolution.
So, I can understand Mr Gs frustration about the inconvenience this delay has 
caused and particularly the additional administration he has had to undertake to 
resolve the issue.   
On the other hand, Mr G didnt ever make the journey and he hasnt been 
inconvenienced by having to travel anywhere. 
Taking all of the above into account I consider that a payment of £100 for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
This is in addition to Lloyds returning the original deposit to the account it originated 
from.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and Mr G 
responded with some further thoughts on the matter.
Mr G provided me with a further summary of his complaint, and he detailed the frustration 
and inconvenience this situation has caused him. Mr G asked that I take into consideration 
the actions of Lloyds in the resolution of the case and any award of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr G has provided me with a detailed summary of his case, there was nothing 
included in it that I havent already seen or considered as part of my review of this case. 
I appreciate the frustration this matter has caused to Mr G but with no new evidence or 
arguments being put forward then I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this 
decision confirms my provisional findings, as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Lloyds Bank PLC to return the original deposit to the 
originating account and pay £100 to Mr G in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman