DRN-3154121
The complaint
Mr H complains to his motor insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) about 
incomplete repairs and delays in the repairs. He is also unhappy that RSA will not agree to 
wrap his vehicle or cover some of the repairs following damage to his vehicle.
  
What happened
Mr Hs vehicle was vandalised in June 2018, but rather than claim he paid a firm to cover the 
damage by applying wrapping. Mr H was unhappy with the work and declined to pay. He 
claimed to RSA in July 2018 for the damage from the wrapping.
 
RSA said Mr H told it the vandalism damage had been dealt with and he only wanted the 
damage caused by wrapping to be dealt with under the claim. RSA instructed its approved 
repairer, but as it involved damage by another repairer, it declined involvement. RSA asked 
Mr H to find a repairer and appointed an engineer to contact them and approved the repairs. 
Mr H is unhappy with the time taken to complete the repairs, the quality of some of the 
repairs and he said his vehicle wasnt re-wrapped. He complained to RSA and it agreed to 
appoint an independent engineer to inspect Mr Hs vehicle and provide a courtesy vehicle. 
RSA said the inspection identified work needed on the right-hand lamp and right-hand 
indicator, which were authorised, and some rectification to previous repairs.
RSA said it referred Mr Hs other issues to its technical team and offered a cash settlement 
of £2,018 less excess for paint marks on the interior, burn in the carpet and side steps with 
end caps. This was in full settlement of the claim and it didnt offer redress for the tub 
mouldings, or wrapping of the vehicle because the mouldings were painted to the same 
colour they were before the incident and the damage to the alloy wheels is due to corrosion.
 
RSA said that as the wrapping was Mr Hs chosen method of covering up the scratches, it 
didnt see why it was being asked to re-wrap the vehicle. It said as it had covered the cost of 
repainting the damaged panels this had put Mr Hs vehicle back to a pre-damaged state. 
RSA said that when Mr H claimed, it should have advised it would only deal with damage 
caused by the damage to his vehicle from the vandalism. This is because poor workmanship 
isnt covered under the policy and it would be a civil matter between Mr H and the repairing 
garage. It said Mr H told its handler the damage caused by the vandalism had been rectified 
and it was just the damage caused by the wrapping firm that he wanted to claim for. 
But RSA said due to a misunderstanding it repaired the damage caused by the vandalism 
and damage by the wrapping firm under one claim. And so, it had provided more settlement 
than the policy allows. It said it had arranged a re-inspection to confirm the work has been 
carried out to an acceptable standard and this was confirmed by an independent assessor.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with RSAs response and was annoyed not to be present during the 
independent assessors inspection of his vehicle. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said miscommunication 
by RSA caused confusion about the wrapping of the vehicle. She said it wasnt necessary for 
Mr H to be present during the final inspection as this was independent, but poor initial repairs 
contributed to delay and RSA should pay Mr H £150 compensation for these failings.
The investigator said the repairs were satisfactory to the independent assessor and if Mr H 
disagreed, he should obtain his own expert report. She said by dealing with the vandalism 
and wrapping damage Mr H had two claims dealt with as one with a single excess payment. 
Mr H disagreed, saying his vehicle still needed spraying and the vandalism damage to the 
interior and exterior hadnt been repaired. He said £150 compensation for not having his 
vehicle for over two years is an insult and would expect at least two years premiums and 
vehicle tax to be returned as well as his expenses. Mr H said contrary to what RSA had said 
he wasnt offered the vehicle back to use until the repairs were completed. He said as well 
as repairs and spraying the vehicle also needs re-wrapping. 
The investigator reminded Mr H about the reports from the independent assessor and the 
findings, and again invited Mr H to obtain his own expert report. Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
this response and requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of the problems Mr H has faced in getting his vehicle repaired and 
returned. RSA point out that the repairer, about which Mr H complains regarding delays and 
quality of the work, isnt one of its priority repairers, but was selected by Mr H. Poor 
workmanship from before the claim isnt covered in Mr Hs policy and it is open to him to take 
a complaint or legal action directly to that company. 
Ive considered the main points of Mr Hs complaint. Concerning the re-wrap of his vehicle I 
can understand why RSA didnt think it had to do this. It hadnt authorised wrapping in the 
first place as this took place before Mr Hs claim, and so it hadnt determined this as a 
suitable means of dealing with the scratches.
 
Mr H feels that the repairs havent been completed as required. RSA have provided reports 
from an independent assessor confirming their findings from three separate inspections. The 
final inspection of Mr Hs vehicle was carried out by an independent assessor in September 
2020 and I dont think it made a difference about other potential attendees. In his report the 
engineer lists all the repairs that have been carried out, and concludes, I therefore consider 
the vehicle is now ready for collection.
From this assessment RSA decided it was reasonable to decide the claim was concluded, 
and no further work was required. Mr H disagrees. When the parties to a complaint disagree 
about whether repairs have been completed properly, we have to rely on the available expert 
evidence. In this case the only report is from the independent engineer and he said the 
repairs and re-working have been completed. In the absence of anything to contradict this I 
am satisfied that RSA fairly concluded to take no further action on Mr Hs claim other than its 
offer of a cash settlement for some uncompleted repairs.
Mr H has been invited to obtain his own expert report and was made aware that if he did so 
and his report challenged the independent assessors report this would need to be 
considered in the context of Mr Hs claim. As far as Im aware Mr H hasnt obtained a report, 
but should he do so this would need to be considered by RSA.RSA offered Mr H a courtesy car when he complained and before this said he could have his 
vehicle back whilst parts were awaited, but he declined. Mr H said there was no such offer, 
so hes been without his vehicle for a very long time. Ive checked the business records and 
a call was made to Mr H on 1 August 2019 from the vehicle repairer offering to let him, take 
the vehicle back as drivable until the remaining part arrived, which they declined. Ive seen 
an email of 9 August 2019 from RSAs engineer confirming this offer to Mr Hs relative.
I think this was a reasonable response from RSA to the policy benefit of a courtesy car. And 
given that it took months for the parts to arrive from abroad it would have benefitted Mr H to 
accept the vehicle back during this period. This delay wasnt anticipated, but at the beginning 
of the claim RSA recorded that a courtesy car wasnt required by Mr H.
According to the independent assessor, repairers have completed the repairs for the 
vandalism that had occurred, as well as damage that occurred from the removal of the initial 
wrap and that included respraying Mr Hs vehicle. It was RSAs oversight that the re-
wrapping was included as this didnt need to be covered by the insurer, and this meant two 
claims have been dealt with as one.
Mr H would like his insurance premiums returned as he had no use out of his vehicle for two 
years. We wouldnt require an insurer to do this while a vehicle remains on risk and the 
policyholder is receiving the benefit of a claim. And, as I have said, the vehicle was offered 
back to Mr H while the repairer was waiting for parts.
Putting things right
I think RSA could have been clearer about its intention not to pay for the re-wrapping of Mr 
Hs vehicle and small delays on its part and so I agree with the investigator that it should pay 
Mr H £150 compensation. Mr H may wish to pursue his selected repairer for any further 
losses or compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £150 compensation (unless it 
has already done so) for the inconvenience its poor service has caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman