DRN-3694457
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that Hitachi HC Capital UK PLC trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
lent to him when it shouldnt have. 
What happened
Hitachi lent Mr G one loan in July 2016. The loan was for £7,350 to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £156.29. In May 2019, the outstanding balance on Mr Gs account was 
passed to debt collections.
Mr G complained about the lending to Hitachi, but it didnt uphold his complaint, it said it 
carried out sufficient checks that showed Mr G could afford the loan. Mr G then referred his 
complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator didnt think Hitachi was wrong to lend to Mr G and so he didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, he said had Hitachi taken its checks further to request his bank statements, it 
would have seen that he was borrowing from short term lenders and gambling significantly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Hitachi is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mr G would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Hitachi has provided evidence to show the results of its search into Mr Gs credit file. The 
results of its search show that Mr G was making around £463.74 towards revolving credit 
payments, things like credit cards and around £331 towards fixed term payments like other 
loans. The check also show that Mr G had a £44,000 mortgage which he was repaying.
Hitachi lent to Mr G on the basis that his income was around £44,999.50 per annum and so 
hed receive £2,844.63. 
Mr G has provided information to say his level of borrowing was increasing at the time and 
this should have been clear to Hitachi when it searched his credit file and that should have 
made Hitachi take its checks further.
Ive thought about what Mr G said and this was his first loan with Hitachi, as far as I can see 
there wasnt a previous lending relationship between Mr G and Hitachi. Also, the loan 
repayment represented a small fraction of Mr Gs monthly income.
Hitachis checks show that Mr Gs borrowing was increasing but it also shows he could 
afford and manage the credit repayments. Mr G would be repaying around £951 towards 
monthly credit commitments, this amount includes the repayment of this loan. Even with 
Mr G making his full mortgage repayment without contributions from his spouse hed have 
been left with sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayment over the term.
Mr G has said further checks would have shown he was gambling and has provided bank 
statements to show this. Mr G indeed had several gambling transactions, but this wasnt 
something Hitachi found out from its reasonable checks here. And looking at the overall 
circumstances of the lending, I dont think Hitachi needed to take its checks further.
The checks were sufficient and proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and those 
checks show Mr G could afford the loan and I dont think it was wrong for Hitachi to lend in 
those circumstances.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Mr G as I can see he feels strongly about his 
complaint, but I hope my explanations helps him understand why Ive reached these 
conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman