DRN-3403151
The complaint
Mr M complains Tesco Underwriting Limited declined his Buildings Insurance claim.
Mr M is represented in his claim by I. However, for ease, I will refer directly to Mr M below.
All references to Tesco also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says it covers the cost of repairing accidental damage to underground 
drains, pipes, cables and tanks. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as sudden, unexpected physical damage 
which has not been caused deliberately.
Tesco say the system has reached the end of its useful life, and the blockage has 
occurred gradually as a result. Tesco have referenced the presence of black 
sediment which it feels supports this  as this is something that occurs over time.
Ive reviewed all the photos available; I cant see the presence of the black sediment 
described by Tesco. But I can see both Tesco and Mr Ms contractors have reported 
an obstruction in the drainage field pipework.
Mr M says the issues were caused using heavy machinery to excavate trees in the 
area directly above. But having reviewed the information available to me there 
doesnt appear to be any evidence the pipes themselves have been damaged, such 
as cracking or a displacement, that would be consistent with the sort of damage likely 
to be caused by heavy machinery. 
Considering this, and the depth of the pipes reported, Im more persuaded by what 
Tesco has said and the systems failure has been caused by a blockage which has 
built up over time.
I wouldnt expect Mr M to be aware this was happening, so I have no doubt it would 
have been sudden and unexpected to him. 
But Ive not seen any evidence of physical damage.  Theres no evidence the pipes 
themselves have been damaged. And Ive not seen anything else to explain how the 
blockage has occurred. 
Mr M said Tescos contractors failed to reinstate pipework and concrete blockwork 
which has permanently blocked the outflow of the Septic Tank. 
Tesco said a piece of pipework removed during excavation wasnt replaced. Ive 
considered if this was reasonable and if Tesco should replace it. The evidence 
available at the present time is that the system has passed the end of its useful life 
and is currently not in an operational condition. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr M hasnt 
been disadvantaged by the fact the pipe has not been replaced. 
Mr M has pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen 
in cases he feels involve similar facts. But we arent bound by our previous decisions 
and we consider each case on its own individual facts, taking into account what we 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive looked at the decisions Mr M has cited, however. I can see one case relies on 
different policy wording and in the other there is clear evidence of physical damage to 
the pipes. They therefore do not reflect the circumstances of this case.
So, I don't intend to interfere in Tesco's decision. But if Mr M wants to provide 
additional information to Tesco for it consider, as it has suggested, he is free to do 
so.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman