DRN-2634312
The complaint
Mr K has complained about how Got You Covered Limited has treated him in relation to a 
quote for car insurance.
  
What happened
Mr K says that Got You Covered Limited (GYCL for short) treated him unfairly because he 
rang it prior to buying a car and was given a quote for car insurance. He then bought the car 
and rang GYCL back and went through the application process only to find the insurance it 
then offered him was roughly triple the price. He says he wouldnt have bought the car if hed 
known how much it would be. So he complained.
GYCL said it had a system error which had led to the first quote being too low. But it noted 
that Mr K had told it that when he first spoke to it that hed already paid the deposit on the 
car. So it thought he was buying the car anyway. GYCL offered him the cost of the days 
worth of insurance he had to get for the day he bought the car but didnt think it had to do 
anything more.
So Mr K complained here. Our Investigator agreed broadly with GYCLs position but noted 
that Mr K had a loss of expectation regarding getting the first quoted price so decided that 
GYCL should pay the days worth of insurance plus £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr K remains unhappy, so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and GYCL see matters differently, although broadly the events of what happened here 
are agreed. The Investigator who has dealt with this matter so far has set out the events 
clearly and I see little to be gained by repeating what is broadly agreed to have happened.
Having considered the matter in full I think the complaint should be upheld in line with what 
GYCL has already agreed to do. I say this for the following reasons.
Having listened to the phone call in question, it is clear Mr K had already found the car and 
paid a deposit on it before speaking to GYCL. Cars makes and models have a wide variety 
of features and benefits so are very much a matter of practicality and subjective taste. And 
this was a second-hand car so had its own individual history as well. So Im not persuaded 
he only bought the car on the basis of the quote described. 
Also in the call the call handler explains that the insurance hasnt been set up and that when 
Mr K has bought the car then there is a process to go through to get the insurance fully set 
up and validated. There is then a discussion regarding the things that can go wrong in 
relation to setting up insurance for a car that hasnt been bought yet. And Mr K appreciates 
that he hasnt got the insurance and needs to call back and go through a process to get it.
GYCL has described itself as a specialist in non-standard risks in particular with regard to 
people seeking insurance whove had accidents or motoring convictions. So considering the 
circumstances here Im satisfied it is likely that Mr K knew at the time of applying he was 
applying for non-standard insurance as that was what he was looking for. And it is also clear 
from what hes said to this service that he was aware that other providers were quoting much 
higher prices for insuring him potentially because of his specific circumstances. And Mr K 
has made clear he was keen to get the price mentioned because it was so much lower. And 
I can see that after buying the car and calling back he went through a further process based 
on his specific circumstances to get a validated quote-which he refused as it was much 
higher in price. 
I can see that second quote contains a lot of specific information about him and his 
circumstances so I can understand why that price quoted is much higher than what was 
originally mentioned. So although I can see that Mr K would be disappointed to not get the 
much cheaper price I think it likely he wasnt too surprised considering the far more detailed 
process he went through to get the validated quote. I think it on receiving the second quote it 
would have been clear to Mr K that the first quote was indicative of what might have been 
available, and the second higher priced quote was tailored to his personal circumstances. 
Nevertheless he clearly would be disappointed and thus I think the award of £100 for 
distress and inconvenience is fair.
Mr K has said he should have a significantly greater award. But it is clear from what has 
happened here he was never eligible to have premium level of the first quote. I dont think it 
would be reasonable to rely on such a quote considering what has happened here. And Im 
not persuaded Mr K only bought the car because of the quote considering his 
circumstances. And in the end Mr K got his insurance elsewhere as he didnt want to take 
GYCLs quote. So Im not persuaded GYCL has anything further to do than what it has 
already agreed to do.
I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, but his complaint is successful in the 
circumstances.
 
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct Got You Covered Limited to pay Mr K the total of £141.53 within 28 days 
of notification of his acceptance of this decision if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and my final decision is that Got You Covered Limited should pay Mr 
K the total of £141.53 within 28 days of notification of his acceptance of this decision if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman