DRN-2624902
The complaint
Mr L has complained about how esure Insurance Limited settled his motor insurance claim. 
In summary hes not happy with the value it gave him for his car, or how it calculated the 
cars value, including the deductions it made for pre-accident damage.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr L was involved in a car accident. esure assessed the damage. It 
concluded his car was beyond economic repair. It offered him a settlement figure less a 
deduction for what it thought was pre-existing damage to the car. It said that it based its 
valuation on online trade comparisons. It took a comparison of the valuations found in 
Glasss, CAP, Parkers and Cazana. It took an average of Glasss CAP and Cazana as there 
was an anomaly with Parkers. 
Mr E didnt agree with the valuation calculated by esure. His concerns were looked into by 
one of our investigators. She initially wrote to esure explaining why she thought Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld. 
In summary she thought esures valuation taking into account the motor trade guides it had 
used was fair. But she didnt think the pre accident damage would necessarily have affected 
the value of a car of that was 13 years old. And she thought the only damage that should be 
deducted was the cost of repairing the left rear side panel and left rear door. 
esure disagreed with the investigators view. In summary it accepted some scratches and 
minor dents were down to wear and tear. But it thought some of the damage to the vehicle 
that the investigator had deemed to be wear and tear was more than small scratches and 
dents. And it set out details of the damage that it didnt think constituted wear and tear.
The investigator reviewed what esure had said. She then wrote to Mr L and explained why 
having reviewed the information further, she now thought esures valuation wasnt 
unreasonable. 
In response Mr L explained why he disagreed with the investigators revised assessment. In 
summary he believed the wing mirror was working before the collision and wasnt pre-
existing damage. He also thought the damage to the drivers door could have occurred 
during the collision. And he thought the other highlighted points were minor cosmetic 
damage and would fall under wear and tear. He didnt agree with the breakdown of costs 
and the valuation. 
The investigator asked esure to comment on the points Mr L had raised. In response it said 
there were signs of significant impact such as to the wing mirror, door and rear bumper. It 
didnt think this damage was caused as a result of the accident. This was because it said the 
impact occurred at the front end of the car and the front bumper was effectively smashed off. 
It said that if the same impact caused damage to the mirror and door, it believed this would 
be apparent all the way down the side panel and the rest of the door. 
It went on to say that when Mr L called to report the claim and was asked what damage had 
been caused as a result of the accident, he did not say that the wing mirror and door had 
been damaged. It said that Mr L reported that damage was to the front of the car. In respect 
of the damage calculator, it said it had used the Glasss damage calculator. 
The investigator wrote to Mr L again. She referred to the industry fair wear and tear 
standard. In summary, having reviewed the images of Mr Ls car, she was satisfied that the 
collision damage was to the front of the vehicle. She couldnt see any indication that the 
itemised damage was as a result of the accident. 
Mr L didnt agree with what the investigator had said. He set out his position regarding the 
damage he agreed and didnt agree with. And he thought the repair values were high. So, 
the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I am aware that Mr L has raised further points of complaint 
regarding the scrappage value that he was offered for the car and personal items in the car 
that he wasnt able to retrieve. Those points of complaint have been addressed separately 
by esure, so I wont be considering them in this decision. If Mr L isnt happy with esures 
response to those concerns, then one of our investigators can look into those concerns as a 
separate complaint. 
How esure valued the car
The starting point for esures valuation of the car was the use of online motor trade guides. It 
used valuations from Glasss - £2,580, Parkers - £2,790, CAP £2,733 and Cazana - £2,718. 
I dont think it was inappropriate of esure to use online trade guides. I think that they provide 
a fair and reasonable guide to vehicle values.  
Mr L has expressed concern that esure ignored the Parkers valuation I dont think in this 
case that it was wrong of esure to have done this. I say this because Im aware that Parkers 
doesnt provide historical valuations. And its online service accesses the same data as CAP. 
So, as Mr Ls car is 13 years old, I think the other three guides provide a more accurate 
guide as to the value of Mr Ls car. So, taking into account the range of valuations, I think 
esures valuation of £2,677 is fair and reasonable in this case.
The deductions esure made for pre-existing damage
Esure made deductions from the car valuation, to take into account what it said was pre-
accident damage. It said this damage would reduce the market value of the car. In principle I 
dont think it would be wrong of esure to make deductions to take into account the cost of 
repairing the pre-accident damage. I say this because esures liability under the policy only 
extended to the market value of Mr Ls car before the accident. So, it seems logical to me 
that if there was pre-existing damage this might well reduce the market value of the vehicle.
But I dont think that meant that esure could make deductions for all of the pre-existing 
damage to the car. A 13-year-old car such as Mr Ls is likely to have suffered some normal 
wear and tear. I wouldnt expect a car of that age to be in perfect condition. And such wear 
and tear might not necessarily affect the value of a car that was as old as Mr Ls.Mr L and esure disagree as to what pre-accident damage constitutes wear and tear and 
what damage was more significant which would affect the cars market value. This isnt 
necessarily a subjective assessment. I say this because I am provided with some useful 
guidance by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA), in its fair wear and 
tear guide. This is a motor industry trade body whose guide is widely used. So, I think it is 
appropriate for me to consider its guidance in this case when considering the pre-accident 
damage to the car.
Before I consider the damage, itself I need to think about what damage is as a result of the 
accident and what is pre-accident damage. This is because Mr L disputes some of the 
damage that esure considers to be pre-accident damage. He says the accident occurred on 
the front right side of the car, which he says, may have impacted any damage in this 
section.
Mr L has told us that he agrees dents to the rear side panel left and rear door left dent is pre-
accident damage. He disputes scratches to the rear bumper and front right door as general 
wear and tear. He also thinks his wing mirror indicator light was working before the accident 
and that something happened to it before or after the accident. He thinks this implies that it 
isnt pre-accident damage. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ive been provided with. And its been very helpful to 
have sight of the photographs taken of the car after the accident. Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that there was a front-end collision. The front bumper has come off, which supports 
that the point of contact was at the front of the car.
In relation to the wing mirror, I can see from the photo that the indicator casing is cracked. 
And whilst there does appear to be damage to the drivers door, I dont think this is 
consistent with a front-end collision. I say this because it seems to me that if the front impact 
caused damage to the wing mirror, then there would likely be further damage down the side 
of that door if the wing mirror was impacted at the same time. 
There is some damage to the drivers door, but it looks to me that this is likely to have 
resulted from a side impact given the nature and extent of the damage to the door and 
paintwork. And from what Ive seen, I simply dont have enough evidence to safely say that 
the damage to the wing mirror and drivers door was caused during the accident. 
In addition, having compared the damage to the car with the guidance set out in the BVRLA 
guide, I agree with esure that the pre-existing damage it has identified as being more than 
wear and tear, doesnt constitute damage that falls within the parameters of reasonable wear 
and tear, set out in the guide.
Mr L has also queried how esure has calculated the cost of the repairs for the pre-existing 
damage. He thinks its repair cost calculation is expensive and he could have got the repairs 
carried out cheaper at a local garage to him. When we asked Mr L whether he had a repair 
estimate, he couldnt provide one from the time that all of this took place. But I dont think 
this makes a difference as I think esure reached a fair valuation in this particular case.
I say this because Ive asked esure to explain how it calculates the cost of repairs. Its 
explained it has used a calculator to estimate the cost of repairing the damage. And its also 
explained that the calculator uses a retail guide which gets its data from car repair 
businesses across the UK. So, there appears to be a lot of data that goes into the calculator. 
And the calculator it uses estimates the time to carry out repairs. 
My understanding is that the calculator tool used by esure is an industry recognised way of 
estimating repair costs. And I dont think given the information I have, that using it was an 
unreasonable way of calculating the cost of repairs in the particular circumstances of this case. esure has also deducted half of the cost of the pre-existing damage repairs from its 
valuation. And I think that is an appropriate deduction to make, as it reflects that there was 
pre-existing damage to a 13-year-old car, that was more than wear and tear, taking into 
account the BVRLA guidelines. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint about 
esure Insurance Limited Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman