DRN-2923564
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store 
card.
I appreciate that PPI was sold to Mr N alongside a card for a clothing store. However, AXA 
France IARD (AXA) has accepted responsibility for complaints like this. To keep things
simple, Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision.
What happened
Mr N applied for his store card in May 2000. PPI was sold to him by telephone some 
months later in February 2001.
Mr N appears to have complained to AXA in or around 2019. AXA didnt uphold his 
complaint and Mr N then complained to this service.
In his PPI questionnaire, Mr N told us that he was both a student and an apprentice 
mechanic. In response to a request for further information from our adjudicator, those 
representing Mr N said that he worked for 30 hours per week over four days for which he 
was paid a salary. I understand that he attended college for one day a week in connection 
with his apprenticeship.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr N disagreed with that view. In summary, he said:
He was not eligible for the PPI by virtue of him being an apprentice mechanic;
The PPI was not presented as optional and our adjudicator should not have 
assumed that to be the case;
AXA should have assessed whether the PPI was affordable and had it done 
so, it would have seen the cover was not affordable;
He did not need PPI because if hed run into financial trouble, he could have 
asked for help from family members.
The matter was passed to me to make a final decision. Upon considering the complaint, I 
asked our adjudicator to request some further information about the nature of Mr Ns work 
as an apprentice. That request was sent to those representing Mr N on 18 February 2021, 
4 March 2021 and again on 18 March 2021.
No response was received to any of that correspondence and so I issued a provisional 
decision. I said: 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr N, but as things stand, I dont think the complaint should be
upheld. Ill explain why below.
As I set out above, PPI was sold to Mr N by telephone sometime after the store card 
account was opened. I dont have a either a call recording or a call script. This isnt 
surprising given how long the cover was sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep such 
records for almost 20 years. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what the parties have told me about the sale. I have also taken account of the 
policy document.
So, the first thing Ive considered is whether Mr N was eligible for the cover. I can see that 
the eligibility criteria at the relevant time were that Mr N must be over 18 and under 65, 
and also be working. I can see that working is defined in the policy document as being 
in paid employment for at least 16 hours or more a week in the UK. From the information 
provided to us so far by Mr Ns representatives, it appears he was in paid work for 30 
hours per week. As things stand, Im provisionally satisfied he was eligible for the PPI.
Ive also given careful thought to whether AXA made it clear that the PPI was optional. I 
can see that it was argued in the PPI questionnaire that Mr N was told the PPI was 
mandatory and not an optional separate product. It was further argued that Mr N did not 
give his express consent for the insurance to be added to the card.
I appreciate that what Mr N told us may well be his honest recollection about what 
happened, but I dont think I can rely on it. I can see that he appears to have wrongly 
believed that PPI was sold in the clothing store  and not on the telephone some months 
later. Given the length of time between him applying for the store card account and the 
PPI sale, I dont think he could have reasonably thought it was a mandatory requirement 
for his store card. Additionally, I think hed have reasonably known that if he didnt want 
the cover, as his store card was already up and running, he could have just made that 
clear to the person on the telephone.
Mr N also argued that he did not give his express consent for the PPI to be added. 
However, the premiums would have been itemised on his store card statements. And if his 
consent for the PPI hadnt been obtained, I think Mr N would have queried what those new 
payments were for. The evidence doesnt suggest he did. On balance, I think Mr N would 
have reasonably known he didnt have to take the cover out if he didnt want it.
Both AXA and Mr N agree advice wasnt provided during the sale. I appreciate those 
representing Mr N say that AXA didnt check whether the PPI was affordable for him. But 
AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr N. Instead, it had to give him 
sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in  
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant
limitations and exclusions.
Those representing Mr N have gone to some length to say the cost of the cover wasnt 
explained to him. And in the absence of a call recording, I accept that may well have been 
the case. In addition to that, I cant say that AXA would have made clear the ongoing cost 
information  including that Mr N could have had to pay interest on the cost of the 
premiums or that he could have had to keep on paying the premiums in the event of a 
claim. From the evidence before me, I cant say that the limitations and exclusions would 
have been brought to his attention.
But I cant uphold the complaint just because there may have been shortcomings when the 
PPI was sold. I then have to consider effectively on an objective basis whether Mr N would 
have still taken the policy out if AXA had done things properly. To help me decide on this 
point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover and Ive also given careful 
thought to what we have been told about Mr Ns personal circumstances at the time.
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 15% of Mr Ns store card 
balance would have been covered for every month he was out of work up to a maximum 
of 12 months. Mr N told us that he didnt have any contractual sick pay from work at the 
relevant time and so it appears to me that the PPI would have lasted for longer than Mr 
Ns work benefits. I appreciate Mr N said he didnt need PPI because he would have been able to get help from his family if he needed to. I dont doubt it would have been the 
intention of those family members to help. But circumstances can change and theres no 
guarantee that help would have been available to Mr N as and when he needed it.
I understand Mr N was in good health when the cover was taken out, so he wouldnt have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Mr Ns 
representatives havent replied to our further queries about the nature of his work contract, 
so as things stand, the evidence before me doesnt suggest he would have been affected 
by any of the other exclusions in respect of his employment circumstances.
I can see that those representing Mr N made some arguments about commission that may 
have been paid to the lender. As the credit agreement was with a third-party and not AXA, 
the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment do not apply in this case.
With all of these things in mind, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mr N if he 
found himself out of work. I cant reasonably say he would have acted differently if AXA 
had given him more or better information about the cover. And so as things stand, I dont 
intend to uphold the complaint.
I encouraged Mr N and those representing him to respond to our adjudicators request for 
further information. I was then informed that Mr N was no longer represented in this matter 
and so our adjudicator sent my provisional decision to Mr N directly, along with the 
information that had previously been requested. However, no reply was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As no further information or evidence has been provided, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint and I 
dont need to tell AXA to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman