DRN-3728397
The complaint
Ms B complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) failed to change her telephone number on its 
records. 
What happened
Ms B says she telephoned Lloyds to inform them of her change of telephone details but 
following an online transaction, she didnt receive a one-time passcode because Lloyds had 
clearly not changed the details. Ms B says Lloyds had also tried contacting her about her 
bank account using the old telephone number. Ms B says she has lodged other complaints 
to Lloyds concerning its poor service and this matter has added to her anxiety and stress. 
Ms B wants Lloyds to pay her £550 to compensate her for the trouble and upset this has 
caused her. 
Lloyds says it changed its complaints data base when Ms B was dealing with a separate 
complaint but not her full account details and has no record of any calls from Ms B to its 
customer services team to formally change her telephone contact details. 
Ms B wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Lloyds having previously been aware of a complaint about incorrect address 
details it held, should have checked the telephone number it held in its records were correct. 
The investigator felt Lloyds should pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Lloyds accepted the investigators view, but Ms B didnt feel the redress went far enough and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms B to discover Lloyds hadnt changed 
her telephone contact details, after she says she informed them to do so.  
Its worth mentioning that Ms B has lodged other complaints to this service about Lloyds, but 
to be clear I will only be considering the issue concerning her change of telephone number 
here and in particular the level of redress Lloyds have agreed to pay, following the 
investigators view. 
Lloyds have accepted that in hindsight it could have checked its account records to ensure 
the telephone contact numbers it held were correct, following an earlier complaint from Ms B. 
It does, however, make the point it couldnt trace any record of Ms B formally changing her 
telephone records with its customer service team. 
Ms B feels that while Lloyds have accepted the investigators view, she doesnt feel £200 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset she has experienced.
As I have already mentioned I cant take into account the other complaints Ms B may have 
lodged against Lloyds, when considering the level of redress that would be appropriate here, 
those complaints will be considered on their individual merits  here I have to consider what 
is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
With that in mind I agree with the investigator, perhaps Lloyds could have checked its 
records more carefully when Ms B told them of a change of telephone contact details in the 
course of an earlier complaint. That said its not the role of this service to punish or penalise 
businesses when mistakes like this occur, but to see businesses apologise and offer an 
appropriate level of compensation for that. 
So without trying to minimise the frustration this may have caused Ms B here, its worth 
saying while this may have been a cause of inconvenience to her, thats not to say a larger 
sum of compensation should always be paid as a result, and I am satisfied the £200 Lloyds 
have agreed to pay is a fair level of redress here. 
While Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I will instruct Lloyds to pay her £200 by 
way of compensation. 
Putting things right
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman