DRN-2103558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided unsuitable advice and 
recommended an investment which they say has not performed as expected and resulted in 
a financial loss to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L met with a financial advisor from Lloyds in May 1993 to get advice on investing 
£5,000. The advisor took them through a fact find to understand their financial circumstances 
and investment aims. The advisor recommended an investment bond and Mr and Mrs L 
used part of their savings to fund the purchase.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Lloyds in 2019 because they were unhappy with the 
performance of the bond and it hadnt reached the minimum predicted levels that they were 
advised that it could reach. They also raised concerns about the competence of the advisor 
who recommended the bond.
Lloyds investigated the complaint but thought that the advice was suitable and they did not 
have any concerns about the competence of the advisor. Lloyds rejected the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L forwarded their complaint to the service and one of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint. The investigator agreed with Lloyds and did not uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs L have asked for an ombudsman to look at 
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but Im not going to uphold their complaint. I understand 
that they feel strongly that the advice was unsuitable and Ill explain why Ive arrived at my 
decision. 
When a business provides advice to consumers, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial aims.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow the advisor to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
The complaint is about an investment which was recommended in 1993 and there is limited 
documentation available which records details of the meeting between Mr and Mrs L and 
their advisor. I have reviewed these documents and it does give some information on what 
was discussed during the meeting.
The advisor has recorded Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances including salary details, 
mortgage and what other assets were held. The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs L had 
£9,000 left on their mortgage and the value of their property was £95,000. In their complaint 
to the service, Mr and Mrs L have said that they thought that their advisor would have 
recommended reducing any large debt before advising them to invest in a savings bond. 
I agree that this is one of the things that should be considered by an advisor, but I note that 
in the section of the fact find called Priorities, Mortgage repayment has not been marked as 
a priority. Although I cant be sure what was said at the meeting between Mr and Mrs L and 
their advisor, I think that on the balance of probability, they were asked to rank certain 
priorities in order of importance. They have listed four things as being of the highest 
importance with two other items ranked less important. Mortgage repayment has not been 
ranked in their priorities. 
Given that the advisor has noted Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage details and the amount 
outstanding, I think that there would have been a discussion around this, but I cant see that 
the advisor has done anything wrong here as she has appeared to have considered it.
The fact find states that Mr and Mrs L did not have any personal liabilities and they had 
£15,000 in savings in deposit accounts. When providing advice, an advisor will likely look to 
see what is affordable and whether the consumer can withstand a loss. There is nothing 
specifically mentioned in the fact find about monthly outgoings so its hard to tell what 
commitments Mr and Mrs L had, other than their mortgage at the time. If I consider the 
£15,000 that Mr and Mrs L had in savings, then I would say that the investment was 
affordable and that they had access to funds in the case of an emergency. In this respect, I 
dont think the advice was unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs L say that the bonds performance was poor and that it didnt reach anywhere 
near the minimum amount projected in the illustration that they were given at the time. An 
investments poor performance does not automatically mean that the advice provided was 
unsuitable. I need to consider if the investment that was recommended matched the 
personal circumstances and objectives at the time. 
When providing advice, an advisor will look at the consumers attitude to risk. This is 
normally on a sliding scale on how much risk they are willing to take. For the advice to be 
suitable, one of the criteria is to make sure that the consumers attitude to risk matches the 
risk rating of the investment.
The advisor has recorded that Mr and Mrs L had a risk rating of 3 on a scale of 1-5 with 1 
being low risk, and 5 being high risk. It is noted that their preference was for capital growth. 
The investment bond that was recommended has the following information within the 
booklet:
By placing your money into the Managed Investment Fund, you have a ready-made 
balanced portfolio 
It is the balanced portfolio approach that makes the fund so suitable for both the first-time 
investor, with very little investment knowledge, as well as the more sophisticated investor 
looking for a sound base upon which to build their own portfolio.
Risk Category 2 (low/medium) 
To achieve long term growth through a broadly spread portfolio of investments comprising 
UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, real properties and interest-bearing 
depositsIn looking at whether the advice provided by the advisor was suitable, I have the following 
comments:
The investment bond that was recommended is classed as having a risk level of 2 and 
being a low/medium risk product. This matches the risk rating that Mr and Mrs L were 
comfortable with and what is recorded in the fact find.
Mr and Mrs Ls preference was for capital growth. The underlying composition of the 
bond included investments that would have provided for long term growth and this is 
described as one of the features of the investment bond.
The time horizon for investing is different for Mr and Mrs L. Mrs L is shown as having a 
short-term view (up to 5 years) and Mr L is shown as having a longer-term view of over 
10 years. The bond is recommended for capital growth over the medium to long-term, so 
I need to consider if the bond was suitable for Mrs Ls time horizon. I note that the 
investment bond allowed for part or full withdrawals at any time and as Mr and Mrs L had 
other savings that could be used in an emergency, I dont think the fact that the time 
horizons are different meant that the advice was unsuitable.
Overall, I think that the advice that was provided to Mr and Mrs L matched their personal 
circumstances and financial aims.
Ive said before that poor performance of an investment doesnt mean that the advice that 
was provided was unsuitable. Mr and Mrs L say that the performance of their investment 
bond does not match the performance of shares that they had which were exchanged to 
purchase another investment bond at the time. This complaint has already been investigated 
by Lloyds and not one that I can consider here.
Mr and Mrs L also say that they have been disappointed with the performance of the bond 
and it hadnt reached the minimum predicted levels that they were advised that it could 
reach.  
I have reviewed the illustration that was sent to Mr and Mrs L. Different projections have 
been used to show what returns could be achieved depending on the length of time the 
investment was held alongside different rates of growth. I can see that the bond value (taken 
from the 2019 annual statement) is below the illustration used to show a growth rate of 7% 
over 25 years. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs L that the performance hasnt matched the 
illustration, but this is only a prediction of what the future value may be, rather than an exact 
representation of what it would be worth.
The annual statement and the initial brochure contain risk warnings about future values:
The value of units may go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount 
invested
As unit prices change from day to day, so too does the value of the bond. Remember that 
the price of units may go down as well as up 
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs L have questioned the competence of the 
advisor who provided the initial advice and suggested that her advice may have been driven 
by sales figures. Lloyds replied to this saying that remuneration wasnt commission based 
and they did not have any concerns about the competence of their advisor or the 
recommendations that she made.
I have not looked at the competence of the advisor during my investigation of the complaint 
other than to see if the advice was suitable. From what I have seen, I believe that the advisor gave suitable advice based on the personal circumstances and financial aims of Mr and Mrs 
L.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman