DRN-3067041
The complaint
Mr E complains about Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) avoiding his motor insurance 
policy because he hadnt told them about a wrap on his vehicle. Soteria treated this as a 
modification he should have told them about.
Soteria uses agents to administer its policies and assess claims. References to Soteria 
include these agents.
What happened
Mr E took out a motor insurance policy with Soteria in June 2020. He then had an accident in 
October 2020. Mr E contacted Soteria to make a claim in respect of the accident. Soteria 
considered his claim but rejected it as they decided to avoid his policy. This was because, 
from the pictures of the vehicle provided by Mr E when he notified Soteria about the 
accident, Mr Es vehicle had a wrap applied to it. Soteria said the wrap was a modification 
that Mr E should have told them about when he took out the policy. Soteria avoided the 
policy from its inception and refunded the premiums paid in respect of the policy.
 
Mr E said that he was unaware that the vehicle had a wrap applied, as it was on the vehicle 
when he acquired it and the colour of the vehicle on the registration document matched the 
colour of the vehicle (with the wrap applied).
Mr E was unhappy at Soteria avoiding his policy and complained to Soteria. But in their final 
response letter they maintained their decision to avoid his policy. Soteria said that, had they 
been told about the wrap, they wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr E. They also noted that 
Mr E hadnt told the broker hed used to take out the policy about the wrap. Soteria said they 
considered a wrap to be a modification and that, regardless of the colour being the same 
and Mr E having acquired the vehicle with the wrap applied, he should have told them about 
it when he took out the policy.
Mr E then complained to this service. He said that he was unaware of the wrap on the 
vehicle, given the colour matched the registration document, and that he wasnt responsible 
for applying the wrap. Mr E said that he had been affected by the stress of not having a 
vehicle and financially by not receiving the value of the vehicle as a total loss. That meant he 
had to obtain a replacement vehicle through finance, as well as having to rely on friends for 
transport as Soteria also withdrew the courtesy car that they initially provided to Mr E after 
the accident. He asked that Soteria meet the claim for the loss of his vehicle.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Soteria had acted reasonably in 
treating Mr E not telling them of the wrap on the car as a careless misrepresentation and in 
avoiding his policy and refunding his premiums. She thought Mr E had been asked a clear 
question about modifications to his vehicle, to which he had replied none. As Soteria had 
acted reasonably in avoiding Mr Es policy then they didnt need to deal with Mr Es claim 
arising from the accident.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He maintained that he didnt know the car was wrapped when he applied for his 
policy and that when he found out it was, he didnt think he needed to tell Soteria as he 
hadnt made any changes to his vehicle and the vehicle was registered as the colour it was 
when he acquired the vehicle.
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that UKI had acted fairly when 
they avoided Mr Es policy. While I thought Mr E would have realised his car had a wrap, I 
also thought it wasnt unreasonable for him to conclude that he hadnt made any changes to 
the vehicle, so he didnt need to inform Soteria about the wrap. Given the importance of 
wrap on a vehicle to Soterias appetite to offer cover, I thought they should have asked a 
specific question about this.
 
I also concluded that Mr E acted reasonably in the information he gave Soteria, so hadnt 
made a misrepresentation. I concluded that Soteria acted unfairly when they avoided his 
policy and so Soteria should remove any record of the avoidance from both internal and 
external databases. I also thought Soteria should assess Mr Es claim for damage to his 
vehicle as they would have done had they not avoided his policy. I also thought £150 in 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience would be fair.
Because I disagreed with the investigators conclusions and thought Soteria needed to put 
things right, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider 
things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint. 
The key part of Mr Es complaint is that Soteria shouldnt have avoided his policy because of 
the wrap applied to his vehicle, so they should meet his claim for the damage to (the loss of) 
his vehicle.
Mr E told us that he acquired the vehicle from a private seller at the time he took out his 
policy and that he didnt realise the car had a wrap as the colour of the vehicle matched that 
recorded on the registration document. While this is what Mr E told us when making his 
complaint (and when disagreeing with our investigators view) Im not persuaded that this 
would have been the case. Having seen photographs of the vehicle it is clear that it has a 
matt paint finish and this is likely to indicate a wrap had been applied to the vehicle. Theres 
also a comment from Mr E from a recording of a conversation with Soteria after he lodged 
his claim that indicates he was aware of the wrap on the vehicle (when he bought it). While 
Ive seen the registration document that confirms the colour of the vehicle, matching the 
appearance of the vehicle, I dont think this changes my view.
 
Mr E also told us that he thought the wrap was to protect the original paintwork, therefore he 
didnt need to tell Soteria. Listening to the call between Mr E and the broker when he took 
out the policy, theres no specific mention (from either party) of the vehicle having a wrap (or 
mention of modifications more generally). From the information Ive seen of the details used 
to provide the quote, there is a question about modifications, to which the answer given is 
none. The same response to the same question is also included in the policy documents. 
So Ive concluded that Mr E was asked about modifications and clearly answered none.
While the answer given by Mr E is clear, Ive also considered what the policy documents say 
about modifications, in terms of the definition of, or detail on, the term. From the documents 
provided by Soteria, the term modification is not defined specifically. Under the heading of 
General Conditions there is reference (under a heading Changes in circumstances) to: You must tell us as soon as possible if there are any changes to any of the details 
you have providedExamples of changes are:
Any changes to your car, including engine modification and changes such as 
fitting alloy wheels, spoilers or skirts.
While there is also a reference to these examples not being exhaustive, I can see no other 
mention of modifications, for example to changes to the appearance of the vehicle. And as 
Mr E acquired the vehicle and took out the policy at the same time and the vehicle was 
acquired with the wrap already in place, then I think it's not unreasonable for him to conclude 
that he hadnt made any changes to the vehicle, and that he therefore didnt need to inform 
Soteria about the wrap to his vehicle.
As Mr Es policy was taken out as a new policy in June 2020, Ive also looked at the question 
he was asked about modifications as part of the quote he obtained (through a comparison 
website). To the question Does the car have any modifications? the answer is no. Ive 
noted that the pop-up help bubble at this point states:
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture, 
including new spoilers, alloy wheels etc.
Again, theres no mention of wrap to the vehicle, nor to changes in appearance more 
generally  for example cosmetic changes. Ive considered these points carefully. While I 
dont think Soteria needs to list all the possible modifications and that wrap could be seen to 
be a non-standard change, Mr E wasnt made aware that wrap was something that would 
mean Soteria wouldnt offer the policy at all (as opposed to offering it on different terms, for 
example a higher premium).
 
Ive seen the evidence that Soteria would not, under its own underwriting guidelines, have 
accepted the wrap modification had they been told about it by Mr E.
 
Ive thought about the points on the clarity of the question about wrap being a modification, 
as well as the consequences in terms of the policy being avoided. Given the importance of 
wrap on a vehicle to Soterias appetite to offer cover, I think Soteria should have asked a 
specific question about this.
 
Ive also considered the applicable legislation, which in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard to be applied is that of a reasonable consumer. Soteria 
concluded that in not telling them about the wrap to his vehicle, Mr E made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. They also treated the misrepresentation as careless (rather 
than deliberate or reckless). Having considered what Ive said about the clarity of the 
question Mr E was asked on modifications, then Ive concluded that Mr E acted reasonably 
in the information he gave Soteria in response to its questions and so hasnt made a 
misrepresentation. It follows that I think Soteria acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Mr 
E when they avoided his policy.
Having concluded that Soteria acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Es policy, Ive considered what 
Soteria should do to put things right. As Ive concluded that the voidance was unfair, Soteria 
should remove any record of the avoidance from both internal and external databases. 
Ive also considered Mr Es other main element of complaint, that Soteria should have met 
his claim for the damage to his vehicle from the accident. Having concluded that Soteria 
acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Es policy, and thereby treating it as if it had never been in 
place, I think Soteria should assess Mr Es claim as they would have done under the policy had they not avoided it. From the report produced by Soterias repairer, the indications are 
that the vehicle was beyond economical repair and therefore a total loss. In such 
circumstances, I would have expected Soteria to consider the claim on this basis, subject to 
any excess under the policy and any other applicable terms and conditions. Given the time 
that has elapsed since the voidance of his policy, Soteria should add interest at 8% simple 
from the date at which it would have been likely to have paid his claim (assuming that it 
would have been a total loss).
In his complaint to this service, Mr E said that he was also unhappy that the courtesy car he 
was initially provided with was withdrawn by Soteria. However, even had Soteria not avoided 
his policy, the terms and conditions of the policy would have meant that a courtesy car would 
not have been provided once his vehicle had been assessed as a total loss. I dont think 
Soteria acted unfairly in this respect.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. Mr E has told us about the stress he has 
suffered from his policy being avoided and, consequently, having to obtain a replacement 
vehicle on finance, without the benefit of any settlement of his claim that he might have 
received. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £150 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience is fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Subject to any information I receive in response to this provisional decision, I intend to 
require Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Remove any record of the avoidance from both internal and external databases.
Assess Mr Es claim as they would have done under the policy had they not avoided 
it subject to any excess under the policy and any other applicable terms and 
conditions. 
Given the time that has elapsed since the voidance of his policy, Soteria should add 
interest at 8% simple from the date at which it would have been likely to have 
assessed his claim (assuming that it would have been a total loss).
Pay Mr E £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr E acknowledged the provisional decision but didnt make any substantive comments.
In their response, Soteria made several points. First, that theyre not able to provide a list of 
all the modifications that they wouldnt accept when a customer takes out a policy. So, they 
set out to the customer that they wont accept non-standard changes made to the car after 
manufacture, as a general question to include cosmetic changes. Soteria also said they 
believed a customer reading the question would understand that the wrap was clearly a non-
standard change, so Mr E should have been aware that he should have informed Soteria of 
the wrap. As he was also asked, when he completed the quote and took out the policy, 
whether any of the information he had supplied had changed, he had ample opportunity to 
ask Soteria whether the wrap would be considered a non-standard change. 
Second, Soteria also noted that Mr E, having initially said that he wasnt aware of the wrap, 
then changed his position when lodging his claim to indicate that he was aware. Together 
with the conclusion in my provisional decision that Mr E should have been aware of the 
wrap, Soteria thought this cast doubt on whether Mr E didnt know about the wrap when he 
took out the policy.
 
Third, Soteria also noted that the investigators conclusion was that the question was clear 
and that Soteria had acted fairly [in avoiding the policy].  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Taking Soterias points in turn, on the first point, while I concluded that Mr E should have 
been aware of the wrap, I went on to conclude that it didnt affect my view. While the 
question asked by Soteria referred to non-standard changes theres no mention of changes 
to appearance or to cosmetic changes. And while I accept that not all modifications can be 
listed, it was the absence of any reference to changes in appearance or to cosmetic changes 
combined with the impact of non-disclosure in terms of Soteria not offering cover at all that 
led me to conclude Soteria should have asked a more specific question. I havent changed 
my view on this point. Soteria didnt comment specifically on my conclusion that Mr E hadnt 
made a misrepresentation under CIDRA, and I also havent changed my view on this point. 
So, Ive still concluded that Soteria didnt act fairly when they avoided Mr Es policy.
On Soterias second point, that they thought Mr E knew about the wrap when he took out the 
policy, as I noted in my provisional decision, I think Mr E should have been aware of the 
wrap. But that didnt change my view, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. So 
I havent changed my view on this point.
On the third point, the role of the ombudsman is to consider all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint and 
whether the business has acted fairly towards the consumer. While the ombudsman will take 
note of the views of the investigator, the ombudsman considers a complaint afresh and 
reaches their own conclusions. It doesnt preclude the ombudsman reaching a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Where thats the case, thats why a provisional decision is 
issued, giving both parties the opportunity to consider things further and provide any 
additional information and evidence, for the ombudsman to consider before reaching a final 
decision.
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view and my reasoning and 
conclusions remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Es complaint.
I require Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Remove any record of the avoidance from both internal and external databases.
Assess Mr Es claim as they would have done under the policy had they not avoided 
it subject to any excess under the policy and any other applicable terms and 
conditions. 
Given the time that has elapsed since the avoidance of his policy, Soteria should add 
interest at 8% simple from the date at which it would have been likely to have 
assessed his claim (assuming that it would have been a total loss)1.
1 If Soteria consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mr E how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if He 
asks for one, so he can re-claim the tax figure from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Pay Mr E £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman