DRN-3408665
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the excess mileage and missing service charges Mercedes-Benz
Financial Services UK Limited(MBFS) have asked him to pay at the end of a car finance
agreement. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I dont think MBFS have done anything wrong here. Please
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Mileage charge
The finance agreement explained that Mr D had an annual permitted mileage of 15,000 and
as the agreement ran for two years he was therefore permitted to travel 30,000 miles before 
he would incur additional mileage charges. Mr D returned the car with a mileage of 43,881,
so hed completed 13,881 extra miles. The agreement explained that the charge for each
extra mile would be 9p and the total chargeable would therefore be £1,499.15 after VAT had
been added. Thats what MBFS eventually charged so I dont think they were wrong to do
so.
Missing services
The finance agreement explained that the car must be serviced in accordance with the
manufacturers published service intervals and within the approved network.
The first inspection suggested the service history was present but when the car was
inspected at the auction house it was noted that the digital service record needed to be
confirmed.
MBFS have explained that all services completed within the approved network will be
digitally recorded and that there is no record of the car Mr D returned having the requisite
service record.
I asked Mr D to let us know where the car was serviced so the garage could be contacted for
the records. I also asked for further proof that services were paid for e.g. bank statements.
Mr D hasnt provided those and in the absence of any evidence the car was serviced within
the approved network, it would be unreasonable to suggest MBFS were wrong to make a
charge for the missing services.
My provisional decision
I dont think that MBFS have done anything wrong here and Im not expecting to ask them to
take any further action. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr D nor MBFS provided any additional information so, Ive not seen anything to 
persuaded me to change my provisional decision and it now becomes my final decision on 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman