DRN-2869036
The complaint
Mrs A says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs A took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was most likely to have been mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
MBNA didnt give Mrs A tailored advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to check whether 
it was right for her. But it did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, 
and not misleading  so that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I dont think MBNA gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policys costs and benefit. 
For example, it looks like it could have been clearer about the full impact of compounding 
interest on the PPI premiums, or the fact that even in a full-length claim the policy would only 
clear a fraction of the cards balance.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs A, as from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it looks like she had enough work benefits and savings to not really need this policy. 
And given just how low this particular policys benefit was, I dont think Mrs A wouldve 
thought it was good value for money in her situation. 
MBNA pointed out that Mrs A had recalled shed been in her job for around two years in 
2001, when shed actually been there for about one year. MBNA felt this was a significant 
discrepancy which cast doubt on her recollections about her work benefits, too. But Mrs A 
otherwise gave us correct information such as her job title, employer, and the relevant date 
of sale. And the work benefits and savings shes told us about seem completely reasonable 
given her situation at the time. This sale was also too long ago for me to require Mrs A to be 
able to produce proof of her benefits at the time. So I dont think I have a good reason to 
disbelieve what Mrs As told us. And so I think its most likely this policy was not good value 
for her. 
I dont think Mrs A was likely to have bought the policy if MBNA had given her clear enough 
information about its costs and benefit. So I think Mrs A has most likely lost out because of 
the flaws in MBNAs sale.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) MBNA should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mrs A owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when MBNA works out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A wouldve 
owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) MBNA should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint, and direct MBNA Limited to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman