DRN-4292804
The complaint
Mr G and Ms E complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) dealt 
with a claim they made on their motor insurance policy after their car was hit by a third party.
Theyre also unhappy with how their policy renewal was handled.
What happened
Mr G and Ms E have comprehensive car insurance with Admiral for each of their cars.
In January 2020 Ms E arranged for both of the cars in the household to be insured with 
Admiral. The intention was for both Mr G and Ms E to be able to drive both cars. 
Mr G and Ms E say an error occurred and the policy was set up so that only Ms E was 
insured on one car, and Mr G was insured on the other car. But Mr G and Ms E werent 
aware this was the case and dont know how this happened. 
In January 2021 Ms E contacted Admiral to renew the policy. Ms E thought the policy 
allowed both drivers to drive both vehicles and so she asked for the policy to remain the 
same as the previous year. Ms E asked for the policy details to be sent to her for review 
before agreeing to renew it. She was told it would be emailed to her in the next 24 hours. 
During the course of the call Ms E arranged for their home insurance to be combined with 
the motor insurance policy in order to take advantage of further savings. Mr G and Ms E say 
the email from Admiral with details of the policy werent sent to them so they werent able to 
check the policy was correct. 
Unfortunately Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident in September 2021 in which 
another driver hit the car he was driving. Mr G and Ms E say Admiral should cover the cost 
of the accident since it was Admirals agents actions in pushing for a combined home and 
motor product that prevented the policy mistake being noted and rectified. Mr G and Ms E 
say instead of sending out the policy documents as requested a new combined policy was 
set up. 
Mr G and Ms E say when they reported the accident to Admiral they were told the accident 
was Mr Gs fault, without speaking to him to obtain details of the accident. Admiral then 
wrote to Ms E to say it wouldnt be paying the claim since Mr G wasnt a named driver on the 
vehicle which was involved in the accident. 
Admiral accepted liability for the accident and paid the third-party costs for the claim. Mr G 
and Ms E werent happy about this since Admiral hadnt spoken to Mr G about the 
circumstances. 
Mr G and Ms E requested copies of the correspondence between Admiral and the third party 
as well as a copy of the call made to Admiral at the time of reporting the accident. But 
Admiral didnt provide these. 
Mr G and Ms E were unhappy that Admiral didnt follow up on the details of the accident with 
Mr G, that it ignored their letter which denied liability, and repeatedly delayed sending 
documentation following their subject access request. Mr G and Ms E want Admiral to pay 
the cost of full repair of their vehicle, pay some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter, and an amount for having to drive a damaged vehicle 
for 15 months. So they complained to Admiral. 
Admiral said the policy was set up online and the policy documents were sent to Mr G and 
Ms E. Those documents showed which drivers were covered on each car. The policy 
documents were sent out again prior to renewal and these showed there were no named 
drivers on either vehicle. So since Mr G wasnt named as a driver on Ms Es vehicle Admiral 
said it wouldnt pay for any loss, damage, or liability. 
Mr G and Ms E remained dissatisfied with Admirals response so referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into things for them. He said he didnt think 
Admiral were unreasonable in settling the third-party claim since the terms and conditions 
allows it to do so. He said he didnt see anything that suggested the letter received from 
Admiral dated 30 March 2022 was factually incorrect. The investigator said the policy 
documents were uploaded to the customer portal in December 2020 along with a message 
to check the documents were correct. The investigator also said since Mr G wasnt on the 
policy he didnt think Admiral acted unfairly in not settling the claim for damage to the 
vehicle. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G and Ms E disagreed. So the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Services approach in cases like these is to consider whether the insurer acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
To be clear complaint handling is not a regulated activity so I am unable to comment or 
make a finding on how the complaint was handled. Likewise complaints about subject 
access requests are outside the remit of this service. Any complaints about this should be 
referred to the Information Commissioners Office. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.  
The renewal call
I have listened to the call between Mr G and Ms E and Admiral when the policy was being 
renewed. When discussing the renewal the agent asked Ms E if there were any changes that 
needed to be made to the policy apart from the mileage. Ms E confirms there isnt. After the 
discussion around the premium finishes Ms E asked for the information to be emailed over 
which the agent agrees to and confirms it will be in the next 24 hours. 
Later in the call the agent discusses combining home and car insurance which would give a 
further discount to the motor policy. Ms E then handed the phone to Mr G who continued 
with setting up the policy. At the end of the call the agent tells Mr G to review the policy 
documents to check theyre accurate and to call back if there are any issues. I think its likely that, because the home insurance policy was set up during the call, and 
because the call passed from Ms E to Mr G part-way through there was a breakdown in 
communication. Initially Ms E asked for the documents to be sent to her so they could be 
reviewed before taking out the policy, but once the home insurance was discussed the 
combined policy was taken out over the phone. 
The policy documents were uploaded onto the portal for review on 11 January 2021. Mr G 
and Ms E had 14 days to cancel the policy during the cooling off period. And to notify 
Admiral if there were any changes that needed to be made. I havent seen anything in the 
notes to suggest this happened. So I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably or unfairly here, 
and I think there was opportunity to check and amend the policy after it had been purchased. 
The accident notification call 
I have listened to the call between Ms E and Admiral regarding the accident. 
When describing the incident the car is described as, inching forward a little bit and pulling 
out very slowly. So I dont think this suggests the car was stationary at the time of the 
incident.  
Mr G and Ms E have said Admiral should have discussed the incident with Mr G since he 
was the one involved. Ms E wasnt even present at the time and was simply relaying what 
shed been told back to Admiral. And I would have expected Admiral to speak to Mr G in 
order to obtain the details of what happened. But, on review of the information provided I 
dont think it would have made a difference to the outcome. I say this because the material 
facts, such as the position of the cars on the road at the time and the highway code, were 
not likely to change. And had Admiral had any queries about the incident and what 
happened I would have expected it to contact Mr G for further information, but it didnt. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr G and Ms E feel about this. As an insurer, Admiral is likely to 
have experience of handling such claims and would be clear about the burden of proof 
required when defending claims. 
Accepting liability 
In the terms and conditions of the policy Admiral is able to, conduct the investigation, 
defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf, and this is what its done here. 
Because of this Admiral doesnt need Mr G or Ms Es agreement or approval to accept 
liability. But I would expect Admiral to base any decision on things such as the evidence 
provided by the third-party, evidence provided to support or challenge the version of events, 
legal precedent, legislation, and the Highway Code.
There were no independent witnesses, there is no CCTV, and the police didnt attend the 
scene. Mr G was turning out of a side road/car park onto a main road into the path of the 
other driver who was already established on the road. Mr G says the other car cut across in 
front of him but there is nothing to show if and how this happened at the moment of collision. 
Admiral took the view that in the absence of detailed independent evidence to prove Mr G 
was stationary at the time of the accident, and the fact that Mr G was emerging from the side 
road while the third-party was on the main road, it wouldnt be able to defend the claim. I 
dont think Admiral acted unreasonably here since it relied on the evidence before it to come 
to that conclusion. 
Ive considered the information provided to me. I must say that I empathise with the position 
Mr G and Ms E find themselves in. But I dont think this is due to Admiral and its handling of 
the claim. Letter dated 30 March 2022
Mr G and Ms E said the letter dated 30 March 2022 was factually incorrect and threatening 
in nature. I have reviewed the letter and Im sorry to hear Mr G and Ms E felt this way. 
Admiral apologised for the mention of personal injury and confirmed no injury had been 
claimed by the third party. Admiral also explained the legal position for Mr G and Ms E given 
Admiral were not on cover at the time of the accident. I can see why the content of the letter 
would have been upsetting but I think Admiral have a duty to explain the position to Mr G 
and Ms E, especially where they may be at risk of a claim against them. So I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably or unfairly here.
The policy documents 
Admiral have provided this service with evidence that the policy schedules were uploaded 
onto the portal for consumers to log in and review.
I have reviewed the policy documents which were uploaded to the portal. The documents 
say, please check this document carefully and if anything is incorrect, call us. The home 
proposal confirmation says, check this document carefully because it is your record of the 
information you have provided. Inform us immediately if any of this information is incorrect or 
changes during the period of insurance. So, as previously stated, I think Mr G and Ms E had 
opportunity to review and rectify any issues with the cover being provided. But I havent seen 
anything which suggests they did.
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator so we cant direct Admiral 
generally about how it conducts its business or its policies. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G and Ms E but overall I think Admiral has 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman