DRN-3031787
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from Group 1 Automotive UK Limited was 
mis-sold to him.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract plan with 
Group 1 Automotive (G1).
Mr K is unhappy that additional options such as GAP insurance and a car cleaning kit were 
added to the agreement. He says that when he asked to remove the options, he was told it 
could take several days to do this. He says that because of this he felt pressured to leave 
the options in place so that he could take the car that day.
Mr K has said that the car wasnt as described in that it didnt have rear parking sensors. He 
says that when he queried this with the dealership, he was offered a retro-fitting service at 
his own expense. Mr K has also said that he was told that the warranty covered the alloy 
wheels, however, when he tried to claim for corrosion on the wheels, the garage told him 
that the warranty didnt cover the work because the wheels had previously been poorly 
refurbished. 
In response to Mr Ks complaint, G1 said that Mr K had signed a demands and needs 
documents stating that he understood why the insurance products were suitable for him. It 
said that the demands and needs document made it clear that the products were optional 
and not a condition of purchase. G1 also said that Mr K had signed a duty of care document 
which detailed the insurance products he had decided to purchase, and also a product opt in 
waiver document, waiving the deferred period during which the information could be 
considered. G1 said that Mr Ks claim that the GAP insurance was never explained to him 
was not reflected by the paperwork he had completed. It said the paperwork made it clear 
that the GAP insurance and car cleaning kit were not simply added on but were optional 
extras.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response from G1 and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that this service could only investigate complaints about regulated 
financial activities, and that he would therefore only be looking at Mr Ks complaint about the 
mis-sale of the finance agreement and the GAP insurance, and not the other matters. The 
investigator explained that this service had repeatedly asked G1 to provide its case file to 
support its position on the complaint, but that this had not been forthcoming. The investigator 
went on to explain that because of this, he had given his view based on the available 
information. In that respect, the investigator said he didnt think G1 had acted fairly and said 
that it should compensate Mr K £300 for trouble and upset. 
G1 didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G1 has failed to provide information to support its position on Mr Ks complaint. So, Ive 
relied on the available information, mainly Mr Ks testimony.
Mr K has said that he was mis-sold the finance agreement because it wasnt made clear to 
him what he was signing up to, and additional options were added to the agreement without 
being properly explained to him.
G1 has said that various documents were made available to Mr K before he signed the 
agreement. However, these documents havent been provided to this service by G1 despite 
requests, so Im unable to comment on these or give them evidential weight.
Based on the available information, Im inclined to accept Mr Ks testimony. Im persuaded 
that it wasnt made clear to Mr K that the additional products were optional. I dont think Mr K 
was given a  fair opportunity to cancel the insurance products once hed realised these had 
been added to the agreement. 
Putting things right
Mr K has ended up with insurance products which he says he doesnt want. This has caused 
him trouble and upset, for which G1 should pay compensation of £300.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Group 1 Automotive UK Limited must pay 
compensation of £300 to Mr K.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman