DRN-3782020
The complaint
Mr B complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
incorrectly informing him that he was eligible for an offer on his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr B held a credit card with Tesco Bank and says, during a call with them, he was told he 
was eligible for an offer of 0% interest on purchases for 12 months. Mr B then received his 
statement which included interest on purchases hed made, so he complained. Tesco Bank 
responded and explained Mr B called them to enquire what offers were available on his 
account as hed seen an introductory offer for new customers. Tesco Bank said Mr B queried 
whether 0% interest was included on purchases but due to a system error theyve been 
unable to listen to this call further and apologise for this. Tesco Bank said standard rates 
apply on the purchase balance. They explained no interest had been charged at that point, 
but if the purchase balance wasnt paid in full by the payment due date, then the account 
would incur interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Tesco Bank didnt 
uphold the complaint but, as a gesture of goodwill, they placed a two-month interest waiver 
on Mr Bs account to allow him time to pay off the purchase balance without incurring 
interest. Tesco Bank then sent a further response offering Mr B compensation of £60 for the 
misinformation received. During our investigation, Tesco Bank clarified the £60 offer was 
made in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the call recording issue.        
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He thought Tesco Bank hadnt clearly explained 
the position with purchase interest and recommended they pay Mr B a further £72 to the 
compensation already offered to bring the total to £132. Mr B agreed but Tesco Bank 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Theres no dispute that, prior to the phone call, interest was charged on Mr Bs purchases. 
The dispute relates to what information Mr B was given during the call. Ive listened to the 
call recording and at the start of the call Mr B asks if the agent can speak with his partner. 
The agent asks why Mr B is calling and he explains its to discuss the rate on his credit card 
as its different for new customers. 
After clearing the security questions, the agent then speaks with Mr Bs partner. Mr Bs 
partner explains theyre looking to do a balance transfer and the interest rate which applies 
to Mr Bs account is 2.99%. Mr Bs partner says, for new customers theres an offer on 
balance and purchases at 1.99% and asks if Mr B can get a better deal. The agent explains 
they cant as this is only for new customers. The agent then asks for details of the account 
they wish to do the balance transfer to and, when Mr Bs partner explains its an account 
which is also in her name, the agent explains they cant do the transfer. The agent suggests 
a money transfer and Mr Bs partner asks If we did a money transfer, does it still offer the 
purchase free thing? and the agent replies Im sure it does, let me double check but Im 
pretty sure it does The agent then explains there would be a 3.99% fee. The agent then 
places the call on hold but the recording finishes at this point. Tesco Bank say the remainder 
of the recording was paused and not resumed so theyre unable to say what was discussed 
later in the call.    
I can see Tesco Bank refer to Mr Bs credit card statements which followed the phone call 
which refer to interest being charged. Ive looked at the statement for July and August and 
they do say Mr B is required to pay the full balance in order to avoid paying interest on his 
account. And, the statements also refer to the purchase interest being 1.805%. Tesco Bank 
say they feel its very unlikely that they wouldve said Mr Bs purchases were on a 0% 
interest rate when discussing a money transfer. They say, although they cant evidence what 
was discussed later in the call, they feel the information relating to the interest was made 
clear in the statements which followed. 
While the call recording isnt complete, Ive carefully considered the information I do have 
and then decided what, more likely than not, I think has happened. The call recording, prior 
to the point it was paused, shows there was, albeit limited, discussion around the purchase 
interest. I agree with Tesco Bank the main discussion was around a money transfer but its 
clear Mr Bs partner asks about the purchase interest during this discussion. Its not fully 
clear what Mr Bs partner meant when they referred to purchase free thing but, given 
what Mr Bs partner asks and Mr Bs testimony, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude 
this referred to purchase interest being 0%. The agent then explains theyre sure it does. 
While I accept the agent then places the call on hold to check this, theres no evidence to 
show what information they gave when they returned to the call  and importantly, no 
evidence they corrected the information theyd already given to Mr Bs partner. So, in 
considering the part of the call which is available and Ive listened to, I think Mr B was 
informed he had purchase interest of 0%.  
I accept the statements which followed the phone call do set out the position in relation to 
purchase interest being charged on Mr Bs account but they also say If you dont pay your 
balance in full (excluding any balances on a 0% interest rate) by your payment due date, 
interest will be charged But, given what Ive said above about the information given by the 
agent during the call, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for Mr B to believe the 
section in brackets relating to balances on 0% interest rate being excluded, applied to his 
account. 
Tesco Bank say Mr B has a purchase balance of £132 and I can see this relates to 
purchases Mr B made following the phone call but before he found out the correct position in 
relation to the purchase interest. Tesco Bank offered a two-month interest waiver on Mr Bs 
account to allow him more time to pay off the purchase balance as well as compensation of 
£60. I understand Tesco Bank say this offer is for the limited call recording available. I can 
see our investigator has recommended Tesco Bank offer a further £72 to bring the total 
compensation to £132. 
I note our investigator says this will cover the cost of purchases made by Mr B. While I think 
£132 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I wish to clarify, this isnt to 
provide any direct redress for the purchases made by Mr B. The £132 has been spent by   
Mr B for goods or services he has received, so I dont think its fair that Tesco Bank should 
compensate Mr B for the purchases he has made. 
From the information Ive seen though, its clear Mr B was frustrated at receiving incorrect 
information and upset when being told the correct position in relation to purchase interest. I think Mr Bs frustration was further compound when being told the call recording, which Mr B 
believes proves his argument, wasnt fully recorded. Taking this all into account, I think £132 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the frustration and upset 
caused to Mr B. I acknowledge Tesco Bank offered a two-month interest waiver on Mr Bs 
account. Its not clear what the present position is and whether the purchase balance has 
now been cleared and, if not, what interest has generated on the account. But, Ive factored 
this in and think the £132 reasonably takes into account any interest which mightve accrued 
on Mr Bs account.       
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Tesco Bank provided incorrect information to Mr B. So, in addition to 
the £60 already offered, they should pay an additional £72 to bring the total compensation to 
£132 for the frustration and upset caused to Mr B.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank must pay a total amount of £132 as compensation to Mr B.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman