DRN-4396047
The complaint
F, a limited company, complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed their accounts and 
called in a loan. Theyd like to be compensated for financial loss to the business.
What happened
F is represented by its directors, but for ease of reading Ill only refer to F.
In May 2020 F received a bounce back loan (BBL) from Santander, with repayments 
expected to start in June 2021.
In April 2021 Santander blocked Fs accounts, preventing access to the funds in the account. 
They later wrote to F to say the accounts had been closed with immediate effect, and to ask 
for further information on Fs eligibility for the BBL. F provided further information to 
Santander but werent able to access the funds in the account.
F complained to Santander. They responded to say they didnt feel theyd done anything 
wrong  saying they had the right to withdraw banking facilities, as described in the terms of 
the account. They also said the BBL was granted based on information provided at the time, 
but they can look at applications retrospectively and ask for further information. But they also 
confirmed what remained of Fs funds had now been returned.
Unhappy with this answer, F complained further that they hadnt been given a reason for the 
account closure, and the closure had led to significant losses. Santander responded to say 
their decision remain unchanged and directed F to the terms of their account for the reasons 
they can close their accounts immediately. They offered no further explanation.
F then referred their complaint to our service, also highlighting theyd been charged account 
fees after the account has been closed. One of our investigators looked into what happened. 
They sent several opinions to both Santander and F, but the most recent one said in 
summary:
Santanders blocking and closing of the account was reasonable, and in line with the terms 
of Fs account
They felt Santander could have asked F more questions about the BBL before deciding to call 
it in. But they didnt feel the decision itself was unfair, as Santander had sufficient grounds 
to do so.
Full repayment of the loan wasnt requested until March 2023, which meant F had benefited 
from only making monthly payments between June 2022 and then.
Santander had retained Fs funds for about a month longer than necessary, which they felt 
was unfair.
The account charges shouldnt have been applied, but they had already been refunded by 
Santander so there was nothing further to do.
To resolve the complaint, they suggested Santander pay 8% simple interest on the held 
funds for the time taken longer than necessary. They also suggested Santander pay F £200 
compensation.
Both Santander and F rejected this. F said this didnt reflect the full time they were without 
the funds in their account, and the loss of business and reputation this covered. They said 
theyd used the BBL for business expenses and had sent the documents to show this. They 
felt it was unjust and unreasonable to ask them to repay the BBL in full.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. After review 
issued a provisional decision which said:
Account block and closure
The Financial Ombudsman Service can look at a wide variety of complaints about financial 
goods and services. But we dont have a free hand to look at every single complaint referred 
to us. There are rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook  these are 
the dispute resolution, or DISP rules.
One of the key rules is that for us to consider a complaint it needs to be brough by an eligible 
complainant. The relevant rule is DISP 2.7.3R, which lists the type of eligible complainants. 
And F meets the criteria as a micro-enterprise.
But, there are exceptions  DISP 2.7.9R explains these. Ive highlighted the relevant 
sections here.
The following are not eligible complainants:
(1) (in all jurisdictions) a firm, payment service provider, electronic money 
issuer, CBTL firm, designated credit reference agency, designated finance 
platform or VJ participant whose complaint relates in any way to an activity 
which:
(a) the firm itself has permission to carry on; or
(ab) the firm, payment service provider, electronic money issuer, 
CBTL firm, designated credit reference agency or designated finance 
platform itself is entitled to carry on under the Payment Services 
Regulations, the Electronic Money Regulations, the MCD Order, the 
Small and Medium Sized Business (Credit Information) Regulations or 
the Small and Medium Sized Business (Finance Platforms) 
Regulations; or
(b) the VJ participant itself conducts;
and which is subject to the Compulsory Jurisdiction or the Voluntary Jurisdiction
Ive also noted that F itself is registered with the FCA as a small payment institution and has 
been so since 2018. This means it is included in the definition of payment service provider 
above.
This means F cannot be an eligible complainant about any activity it could potentially carry 
out as a payment service provider  theres no requirement for them to be actively carrying 
out this activity at the time, just that they are permitted to do so. DISP 2.7.9R is quite broad 
here. And at the heart of it, any complaint about blocks to a bank account or the closure of 
the account is about the removal of payment services  the ability to transact on the account.
Ultimately then F is trying to bring a complaint to our service that relates to activities they are 
allowed to carry out by the FCA. As such, Im satisfied that DISP 2.7.9R means they are not eligible complainants, and I cannot consider their complaint points about the account block 
or closure. It falls outside of our jurisdiction to consider  I have no legal power to make any 
findings on these points.
BBL loan
I can however consider a complaint about Santanders decision to call in the BBL. Lending 
money is not an activity F are permitted to do, and as such isnt excluded under 
DISP 2.7.9R.
At the time F applied for the BBL, applicants were required to declare that they met the 
eligibility criteria. Santander have provided a copy of Fs application details, and it doesnt 
appear that F provided any details on the intended purpose of the loan at the time. The 
application also states the turnover of the business in 2019 as just over £25,000.
Although the loan was approved and drawn down, its not unreasonable for Santander to 
review the lending decision later. This is in line with their obligations under the BBL scheme. 
I dont see that it was unreasonable for them to ask F to provide further information about the 
purpose of the loan.
Ive read the request Santander sent in May 2021, and I can see that they asked F about the 
nature of their business  saying according to their systems the business traded in catering, 
but the day-to-day running of the account doesnt suggest this. F has disputed that they were 
specifically catering, saying they engaged in cleaning services, financial intermediation 
services (which ties in with being registered with the FCA) and other business support 
services. The documents from the account opening do say F would be working in catering. 
Although I can also see that F submitted updated KYC documents saying they provided 
cleaning, events services and financial intermediary services. From this, its not 
unreasonable for Santander to have concerns about the nature of the business.
This request also outlines that the funds from the BBL shouldnt be used for personal or third 
party benefit and asks for further information on how the pandemic has affected their 
business, and what the funds were spent on. The request says that if its determined F 
wasnt eligible for the loan, or any information on the application was incorrect, then it may 
begin recovery of the loan. There was also the option if, on reflection, the loan wasnt 
needed then they can discuss this further with Santander. 
Having reviewed the response to this by F, and further information sent to our service since 
then, Im not satisfied F has demonstrated their entitlement to the loan. The response from F 
isnt specific in what the funds were used for, or the way in which their business had been 
impacted by the pandemic. There is an argument that Santander could have been more 
specific in their questions, or followed up to ask further information from F. But its also clear 
the information supplied by F wasnt sufficient to demonstrate their entitlement to the BBL.
Ive reviewed the account statements for Fs account with Santander, and I can see the 
turnover on the accounts was considerably higher than reported on the application. So, I can 
see why Santander may be concerns about the accuracy of the information provided.
Overall, Im not minded that it was unreasonable for Santander to call the loan in  as per 
the terms of the BBL agreement. I understand they allowed F to make regular monthly 
repayments from June 2021 until March 2023  which was of benefit to F. That theyve now 
asked for full repayment which isnt in itself unreasonable. Likewise, employing a third-party 
debt collection agency to collect the debt isnt unreasonable  its a relatively common 
industry practice, and there is provision for the sharing of information to allow this in the 
terms of the BBL agreement. As such, Im not asking Santander to do anything further here.Account charges
F has also complained about being charged for their account after it was closed. I agree this 
is unreasonable, but I can also see Santander have refunded all the charges already. This is 
reasonable, and so I do not see they need to do anything further.
Neither F nor Santander responded to my provisional decision before the deadline. As such 
it now falls on me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new comments or evidence from either party, I remain satisfied with 
the conclusions reached in the provisional decision.
Our service does not have the power to consider a complaint from F about the closure of 
their account, as this is related to activities that the FCA permits them to carry out.
I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to call in the BBL, for the reasons 
given in the provisional decision. And Im also in agreement with F that it was unfair for 
Santander to charge them for an account that was closed. But as these charges have 
already been refunded, I dont see that Santander need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that we do not have the legal power to consider Fs complaint points 
about payments services. 
For the complaint points about the BBL and account charges, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman