DRN-2727463
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M are unhappy with the offer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
made to settle their claim for accidental damage.
  
What happened
Miss H and Mr M had buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds which included cover for 
accidental damage. The policy was in joint names but, as he dealt with the claim and for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my decision. 
Mr M made a claim under his policy after an accidental spillage of gloss on his carpet. Lloyds 
asked for four photographs showing the carpet from specific viewpoints. It accepted the 
claim and offered to settle by replacing the carpet on a like for like basis, by retail voucher or 
in cash, less its own discounts. Mr M complained to Lloyds because he thought it had based 
its offers on an inferior quality carpet.
Lloyds looked at the evidence Mr M supplied but maintained that its offers were based on an 
accurate assessment of the existing carpet quality. It repeated its offers as a final response.
Our investigator thought Lloyds made a fair settlement offer and he didnt think it needed to 
do any more. He explained that the descriptions of the damaged and replacement carpets 
were broadly similar and, as Mr Ms carpet was discontinued, Lloyds had offered to replace it 
with the nearest alternative in line with the policy.
Mr M didnt agree. He thought that Lloyds evidence had been given greater weight than the 
expert carpet fitters statement he supplied.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
The cause of the damage isnt disputed so, firstly, Ill look at whether the type of offers 
Lloyds made are in line with the policy. To be clear, at this point Im not addressing the issue 
of carpet quality.
Offers
Lloyds offered to settle Mr Ms claim with:
a like for like replacement carpet;
carpet retailer vouchers of £1137, less the policy excess, or
£852 cash, less the policy excess.
The policy states:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable. 
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
Work guarantee
We guarantee all claims related work done by our approved contractors for a minimum of 12 
months from the date of completion.
Mr M supplied a copy of the receipt showing he paid £1116 for his carpet three years earlier. 
Assuming the price of the carpet today is broadly similar to that paid three years earlier, 
Lloyds offered vouchers to a value which would more or less cover the cost of the carpet. 
So, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong by maintaining this settlement offer.
Lloyds cash settlement offer was lower than the voucher value because it receives a 
discount from its preferred retailer for supply of carpet or vouchers. Therefore, in line with the 
policy, Lloyds is entitled to reduce the cash settlement to reflect the amount it wouldve paid 
to settle the claim using the replacement or voucher options. Again, I dont think Lloyds did 
anything wrong by maintaining this offer.
Mr Ms carpet is no longer available, so Lloyds based its replacement offer on expert opinion 
of its value. I think thats fair and in line with the policy.
I understand that Mr M declined Lloyds offer because he doesnt trust its preferred carpet 
retailer. I have no reason to doubt that the carpet would be supplied and fitted appropriately 
and to a reasonable standard. As stated in the policy terms, Lloyds guarantees the work so if 
there were any issues Mr M could go back to Lloyds.
So, in terms of the nature of the settlement offers Lloyds made, I think it has acted fairly and 
in line with the policy.
This brings me to the key issue of Mr Ms complaint, which is that Lloyds incorrectly 
assessed the quality and therefore the value of the carpet, meaning that the basis of Lloyds 
offers is fundamentally flawed.
Carpet quality
Ive relied on what Mr M and his carpet expert said, along with the opinion of Lloyds carpet 
expert. The details are summarised here:
Mr Ms expert says the carpet they fitted was a nylon, Noble Supreme, with a 19mm 
pile and with 5-7 twists per inch (tpi). 
Lloyds offered to supply an Invictus Sirius which is polypropylene with an 18-20mm 
pile around 5 tpi. 
Mr M thinks the carpet Lloyds offered is of a lesser quality. The problem here is that the 
receipt describes it as a Noble Saxony mocha which comes from a different range and 
Lloyds hasnt found anything that matches Mr Ms description of the Supreme range. 
Instead, Lloyds based its offer on a combination of the description and the photographs he 
supplied showing the pile as around 12mm and the twists of differing colours, which it 
doesnt think is possible with 100% nylon carpets. 
I understand Mr Ms point that the original pile mightve flattened over the three years it was 
in place, so Lloyds offer to fit an 18-20mm pile seems fair as it matches Mr Ms description 
of his existing carpet pile in its new condition.The tpi of a carpet isnt detailed on websites so its difficult to know exactly what each is. 
However, both experts say there are at least 5tpi, so I think Lloyds has offered a fair match 
on this aspect.
The only real difference, then, seems to be what the carpet is made of. Mr Ms expert recalls 
that the carpet was 100% nylon. Lloyds offered a polypropylene carpet. Having looked at 
various carpet websites, I understand that both are hardwearing and stain resistant, with 
nylon being regarded as slightly better for high-traffic areas. But I also note that nylon is 
described as resistant to flattening, which takes me back to Mr Ms view that his original 
19mm pile nylon carpet flattened to 12mm in three years. I think its worth noting here that 
the carpet named on the receipt has a 12mm pile, so I can understand why Lloyds had 
doubts about the carpet quality.
What Im left with to help me reach a decision is:
a receipt which doesnt describe the carpet in the same way as the company which 
fitted it does;
Lloyds offering a carpet made of a different material to the carpet fitters description, 
but of a similar or possibly better pile, and
a very simple dispute which is that Mr M doesnt think Lloyds offered a fair quality 
match.
Looking at the descriptions, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Lloyds offer was 
unreasonable. I know Mr M just wants the same as hed pay now for the same carpet, but as 
its not available to buy I think its fair that Lloyds offered to replace or settle on what is 
broadly a like for like basis. It cant provide an exact match and nothing in the evidence 
provided by each of the carpet experts suggests that Lloyds has offered a significantly 
inferior carpet. Overall, I think Lloyds fairly offered to settle the claim based on all expert 
information available to it.
Assessment of quality
This brings me to my final point, which is that Lloyds made an offer based on the information 
available to it, which to begin with was four photographs. I understand that its possible to 
determine, roughly, the type of carpet using photos taken from certain angles, so I dont think 
that was unreasonable. But I think a lot of the problems experienced couldve been avoided 
if Lloyds had inspected the carpet when Mr M first challenged its assessment of quality and 
value. I think Lloyds should compensate Mr M £100 for the inconvenience caused by 
protracted discussions about the quality of the carpet, leading to delays finalising the claim. 
While I realise Mr M might not think this is enough, I note from his evidence that he 
intentionally withheld the receipt when he first made his claim because he thought Lloyds 
would undervalue his carpet and he wanted to be in a position to challenge it. Its not clear 
why Mr M started out with the view that Lloyds wouldnt make a fair offer, but I think it 
wouldve been in a better position to do so if Mr M had provided all relevant information from 
the start. As it is, Lloyds maintained its offer to replace with an 18-20mm pile carpet despite 
the receipt suggesting the original carpet was 12mm, so Mr M hasnt lost out here.
In summary, I think Lloyds made a fair offer to settle Mr Ms claim based on the information 
available to it, and Im satisfied that the offer is still fair after considering all the evidence 
supplied by both Mr M and Lloyds about the quality of the respective carpets. That said, I 
think Lloyds couldve done more to bring the matter to a close by carrying out a visual 
inspection of the carpet in Mr Ms home, and for that shortfall I think compensation of £100 is 
warranted.
I said I was intending to:uphold in part Mr Ms complaint and I am minded to require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to: 
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused during the protracted 
discussions about carpet quality, leading to a delay in settling the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M didnt respond. Lloyds responded to say that it didnt think it had caused delays 
because it made the settlement offer to Mr M quite quickly. However, with hindsight, it 
accepts that an in-person inspection of the carpet mightve helped move matters along. 
Lloyds accepted the provisional outcome, which is to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds agreed to pay the compensation, and Mr M didnt make any further submissions 
or provide any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
  
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr Ms 
complaint and Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused during the protracted 
discussions about carpet quality, leading to a delay in settling the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman