DRN-1085637
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the quality of his Monzo Bank Ltd current account card. 
What happened
Mr M has a current account with Monzo and subscribed to Monzo Plus. This additional 
service provides a number of features for a £6 monthly subscription fee.   
Mr M says he subscribed to Monzo Plus to make use of one benefit only - the ability to 
choose from three exclusive card colours. He chose 'midnight sky', but was disappointed as 
the white card numbers faded, showing the 'hot coral' coloured text beneath. Mr M ordered 
replacement cards but says the same thing continued to occur.  
Unhappy with the quality of the cards provided, Mr M complained to Monzo. They explained 
the card numbers would be hot coral underneath as that's the base colour of all their cards. 
They also pointed out that the Monzo Plus subscription offers a number of other benefits 
aside from exclusive card colours. But they offered Mr M £10 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr M disagreed, so the case has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't uphold it. 
Mr M is unhappy the numbers on his current account card faded, showing the original card 
colour. I appreciate he may be frustrated by this, given that he specifically chose to have a 
card in a different colour. 
But I've seen nothing to suggest the card failed to perform the banking functions which it's 
made to perform. So it appears this is simply an aesthetic problem. I don't agree 
Monzo have been negligent as Mr M suggests. I'm not able to tell Monzo to change the 
material they use to manufacture their cards, or the process they use to paint them. 
These decisions are at their commercial discretion. 
I appreciate Mr M says he only paid the £6 subscription fee for the exclusive colour options. 
But whilst he may have chosen not to make use of the other features the subscription 
provides, the fact remains that they were provided and available to him. 
Monzo offered Mr M £10 as a gesture of goodwill, and said they'd monitor the issue moving 
forward. I also believe Mr M has been released early from his one-year subscription 
agreement for Monzo Plus. Taking everything into account, I think Monzo have gone beyond 
what I'd have asked of them, and have acted in a way I consider fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So I won't be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman