DRN-4335865
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with his
request for a withdrawal from his currency account.
What happened
In or around 14 October 2022 Mr F contacted RBS concerning his USD currency account.
He wanted the equivalent of £50,000 transferred to his account with another bank. However
RBS had difficulty finding the account and after a number of telephone calls he was
recommended to visit his local branch to identify himself and request the withdrawal, but he
was still unsuccessful in getting the account traced. After this he was temporarily living
abroad.
Having received a leaflet from RBS about how to access foreign currency funds, Mr F tried
to contact RBS by fax as this seemed to be the only way to carry out the transaction. But he
wasnt given the full fax number, and the fax couldnt be delivered. On 12 November 2022 he
raised a formal complaint with RBS by letter and again asked for the withdrawal to be carried
out. He received an email from RBS on 12 December advising that the fax number was still
in operation, He sent another fax, which RBS admitted receiving, but the withdrawal wasnt
carried out and was cancelled without advising Mr F.
Eventually RBS sent a final response letter to Mr F on 9 January 2023. It explained that its
advisers might not have known about how currency accounts were operated and accepted
there was a need for training in that respect. It had traced his currency account and said the
reason the withdrawal hadnt been carried out was because under its terms and conditions it
should have been linked to a sterling current account. But as that account had been closed,
the currency account had an orphan status and would need to be closed to make a
withdrawal from it. It paid him £250 compensation.
Mr F denied ever having had a current account with RBS, and explained he had carried out
a withdrawal from the account in 2009 and didnt need a current account then. RBS said that
was an exception and that he wouldnt have been able to open the currency account without
having a current account. It offered a further £500 compensation.
Mr F declined the offer, pointing out that when he asked for the withdrawal in October 2022
the exchange rate was favourable. If a withdrawal was carried out at the later rates he would
have made a loss of (the sterling equivalent of) over £3,000.
RBS maintained its offer. This took into account the overall poor service, time spent, travel
costs to branch and any costs he might need to pay to get his identification (id) notarised (in
connection with the closure of his account). It said it couldnt compensate for a payment that
never happened due to failure to confirm interest rates at the time, as the payment was
never made. Later in its correspondence with our Investigator, it said that it only received the
formal request for withdrawal on 15 December 2022.
Our Investigator said that RBS had paid, and offered, fair and reasonable compensation for
its service failures. In respect of any loss Mr F might have made, he noted the difference in
exchange rates as of 15 December 2022 and 9 January 2023 (when Mr F was told he would 
need to close his currency account). There would have been a difference of about £90 which 
he considered was provided for in the compensation offered.
Mr F didnt agree, particularly concerning the date RBS would have received his request to
withdraw, maintaining that he had made a much larger loss.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, as well as paying the compensation offered, 
RBS should compensate Mr F for the difference in the exchange rate at the time it should 
have carried out the transfer (allowing 14 days for this to be carried out) and at the date it 
carries it out or closes the account.
RBS in principle agreed to my findings. However it said that it wished to stress that the delay 
in resolution between 9 January 2023 (its Final Response) to date was not felt to be directly 
contributable to its actions. So that date should be used as the second date for calculating 
the difference. It provided its calculation based on its rates for buying and selling the relevant 
currencies.
I said that this was reasonable, but that RBS should allow 14 days to carry out the transfer or 
closure of the account so the second date should be 23 January 2023.
RBS accepted this. It provided its calculations for that date.
Mr F said:
i) It is extraordinary that RBS can locate a "note" indicating that a supposed current
account was closed in 2000 but are unable to provide its account number or the terms
and conditions associated with it.
ii) If it was necessary, as RBS have insisted throughout, to close the currency account
in order to make a transaction, it could be argued that the exchange rate available in
October 2022 should be applied to the entire balance.
He also said that he would be obliged if a contact were provided to supervise both the 
payment of the sums proposed to his current account and the transfer of dollars to a dollar 
account of his choosing.
With regards to RBS proposal he noted that its calculations were based on its selling rate for 
calculating the amount in dollars and its buying rate for calculating the equivalent in pounds 
sterling. Of prime importance, however, is the transfer of the current balance as USD to a 
USD account with another institution without incurring charges or commission.
Save as set out above, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings those findings are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
There is some dispute in this case surrounding the existence or otherwise of a current
account Mr F was said to have held with RBS. Where the evidence is unclear or in dispute, 
I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities that is, what I consider most likely to havehappened based on the evidence available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr F believes his currency account was opened in or around 1989/1990. He has maintained
the account since then, and has made deposits, earned interest, and received regular
statements. He insists that he has never had a current account with RBS. And, because of
the difficulty in tracing archive records RBS has been unable to show definitively that there
was a current account or when it was closed, as it maintained. But there is a brief note
indicating that a current account for Mr F was closed in or around late 2000, so I think it likely
that there was a current account which was closed around about then. But theres no
evidence that Mr F asked for it to be closed.
Mr F was able to make a withdrawal in May 2009. This withdrawal was done by telephone
and although RBS had difficulties at the time with making the payment, it was made.
Mr F received a letter from RBS in May 2009 explaining that its foreign exchange
department had difficulty in contacting him and would usually contact his branch manager
but as you only maintain a US$ account with us, there is no branch linked to your account.
RBS has told us that it is a condition of having the currency account that it be linked to a
current account with RBS. I have assumed that that condition has always applied. So it was
aware in 2009 that the account had no current account linked to it, but it wasnt explained to
Mr F at the time that he couldnt make further withdrawals from the account without this.
I take the point that personal currency accounts were withdrawn for new customers from
2017 but up until 2023 I am persuaded that Mr F was unaware that the account couldnt be 
operated without an associated current account.
In October 2022, the date is unclear but it was I think about 14 October, Mr F contacted RBS
because he wanted to withdraw the sterling equivalent of £50,000. In light of his previous
experience I think it was reasonable of him to expect that the transaction would go through.
However RBS has not been able to produce evidence of the phone calls made to it, though
accepts that its advisers at the time were unaware of how currency accounts worked or
could be traced. Mr F was told to produce id at his local branch. He had some difficulty doing
this as there was only an unreliable weekly mobile service near him. When he managed to
attend a branch, although he produced documents to verify his id (which RBS failed to
retain) he couldnt carry out the withdrawal. He tried to send a fax to RBS (which was still a
valid way of making a withdrawal), but he wasnt given the full fax number. He set out his
complaint in a letter of 12 November 2022, reiterating how much he wanted to be withdrawn.
RBS says it didnt receive a formal notice of withdrawal until 15 December 2022. It didnt act
on this and it wasnt explained to Mr F that he would have to close his account, until
9 January 2023.
I have to consider what the appropriate compensation payment is. As far as reasonably
possible this should put Mr F in the situation he would have been in had RBS carried out his
instructions or advised him to close the account at the appropriate time. And I am satisfied
that, having considered all the evidence, RBS should have been reasonably aware in or
around 14 October 2022 that he wanted to make the withdrawal. I think it should have told
him then that he had to close the account, as I dont believe he actually had any other
option. I think it fair, to allow this to have taken place, to apply the date of 28 October 2022.
So I think that RBS should compensate Mr F for the difference in exchange rates, between
that date and the date it carries out the withdrawal or closes the account. As I shall set out
below.
As regards the general compensation award, RBS has made an offer to pay Mr F £500, this
is on top of the £250 already paid. I understand this is to reflect his distress andinconvenience, travel costs, the cost of notarising his id documents (if he is still abroad) and
the impact on Mr F up until its final response letter. I recognise that the award was intended
also to cover out of pocket expenses as well as distress and inconvenience. Mr F was
clearly put to a lot of inconvenience which could have been avoided. Coupled with that he
had the anxiety of knowing hed missed out on benefiting from the low GBP/USD exchange
rate at the time. RBS hasnt said the award includes any losses he may have made in that
respect. Whilst it is preferable to keep awards for distress and inconvenience separate from
those for financial losses, as it stands, I think the proposed award is fair and reasonable.
I note RBS response to my provisional findings. As I have indicated to the parties, I think its 
proposals are reasonable based on allowing 14 days for closing the account or making the 
transfer. I shall direct accordingly. Mr F will be aware of its calculations in that respect.
I note what Mr F says about the existence of the current account and agree that the position 
is unsatisfactory. However I remain persuaded by my provisional findings that it is likely that 
there was a current account which was closed in about 2000, but accept there is no 
evidence that Mr F asked for it to be closed.
My proposals for resolving this matter are based on what should have happened at the time 
that Mr F asked for the transfer of dollars into pounds. He had requested that this be 
converted into £50,000 and if this had happened, RBS would have carried out the transfer 
using its appropriate buying and selling rates. I don't think the difference in exchange rates 
should be calculated on the entire balance as it was never Mr Fs intention to convert the 
whole amount into pounds.
With regard to carrying out my directions, if Mr F accepts this decision, RBS will no doubt 
have procedures in place to do this and I don't need to make any further directions. As 
regards any closure of the account, I accept that Mr F will have to do this if he wants access 
to his money. However the mechanics of this do not form part of this complaint, and whilst 
I wouldnt expect RBS to charge for transfer of the funds to another dollar or currency 
account I can't guarantee that any receiving bank might not charge for this.
Save as set out above, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
RBS should:
Calculate the amount (in dollars) that Mr F would have had to pay to receive £50,000 as
of 28 October 2022, using its internal GBP/USD exchange rate.
Then, in the same way, calculate the same figure as of 23 January 2023. As the latter 
figure is higher, it should pay the difference between the two figures to Mr F in pounds 
sterling, using its internal USD/GBP exchange rate
Pay Mr F a further £500 compensation (in addition to the £250 already paid).
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman