DRN-4015964
The complaint
X and X complain Zurich Insurance PLC has made an unfair settlement offer and caused 
delays following a claim for an escape of water which caused damage to their property. 
What happened
X has led the complaint with this Service so Ill mainly refer to him throughout. X appointed a 
loss assessor to help manage the claim on his behalf. References I make to Xs actions 
include those of his loss assessor.
Zurich is the underwriter of the policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Zurich has accepted it is accountable for the actions of this agent, 
any reference to Zurich includes its agent.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
X purchased a property in March 2020 and it had the benefit of a block buildings 
insurance policy underwritten by Zurich.
Prior to his ownership of the property, X says the previous owners identified a leak 
causing water damage to the flat. The source of the water leak was identified as a 
faulty wastewater pipe from the washing machine in another flat. 
Shortly after the completion of his purchase of the property, X says the leak caused 
failure of the ceiling in the kitchen area and further damage. He let the management 
agents of the development (Company H) know about this.
X says he made numerous attempts to obtain updates about the progress of the 
claim from Company H but after nine months he says there was no sign of progress 
or formal communication. So, he decided to instruct his own contractors to undertake 
the work.
X says there was significant water damage to kitchen units and appliances, flooring, 
ceiling, entrance walls, fire protection items and ceiling heating elements. He said 
much of the damage was hidden and only became apparent when kitchen units were 
removed. X presented a quotation from his contractor for the work to the kitchen and 
living room detailing the cost as £26,172.04 plus VAT. This provided a summary total 
figure without a breakdown of the individual aspects of the work or costings.
While the remedial work was undertaken, X also arranged for his contractors to 
undertake some unrelated refurbishment work to areas of the flat.
Company H had previously obtained a quote for the remedial work from one of its 
contractors and this was for £7,220 plus VAT (£8,664) and Zurich based its 
settlement offer on this. X says this was without the benefit of the more intrusive 
investigations undertaken by his contractor and didnt cover all water damage. 
Zurich was concerned about the extent of the work X had undertaken as it was aware 
of the additional refurbishment work to the flat. It asked for supporting 
documentation/an itemised quote to ensure it was all related to the claim damage. It 
also said Company H had been on the understanding the damage could be repaired 
rather than the extensive work undertaken.
Unhappy with progress, X complained to Zurich. It responded to say it had attempted 
to come to an agreement on costs and had asked for additional evidence to 
substantiate the amount X had spent but this hadnt been received. It said that part of 
the issue was Xs loss assessor hadnt produced a scope of work or costs as he 
hadnt seen the original damage.
In the absence of the additional evidence, it reiterated its settlement offer of £8,664 
including VAT. It awarded £150 compensation as it recognised it had caused some 
delays and poor communication.
X raised a complaint with this Service, unhappy with the progress of the claim and 
the lack of settlement. Our Investigator didnt uphold it saying it wasnt unreasonable 
Zurich asked for a breakdown of costs given its concerns and X hadnt provided an 
alternative quote setting out why the figure X was claiming was reasonable. He 
thought the delays were caused by the property management company and not the 
fault of Zurich.
X disagreed, explaining in detail his reasons for doing so. He also reiterated a 
number of questions he believed Zurich should answer regarding the inspection of 
the property before he owned it. 
The complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint and may not refer to every point made by the parties. But I can confirm I have 
seen and considered everything even where I dont reference it specifically.
There are a number of parties involved in the claim at the heart of this complaint. My 
decision focuses on Zurichs actions throughout the claim and subsequent complaint and I 
wont make findings on the other parties involved.  
Zurichs actions in January 2020
I recently issued a decision on this aspect of the case, explaining this Service didnt have the 
power to consider Zurichs actions before March 2020 when X purchased the flat. So, I wont 
comment on that issue further.
The additional information requested
Generally, insurers expect to be able to inspect damage and assess the extent of their 
liability under a claim and this isnt unreasonable. For obvious reasons, this is much easier 
before remedial work is undertaken. Where the work has already been undertaken  as it 
has here  then I would expect an insurer to consider the evidence available to decide what work would likely have been required and covered under the policy.
Company H obtained an estimate for the work which indicated costs of £7,220 plus VAT and 
this is what Zurich based its settlement on. X says this was obtained before the true extent of 
the damage was revealed by more intrusive investigations he had undertaken. Following 
these, his contractor provided an estimate for the work at a cost of £26,172.04 plus VAT but 
this provided no scope of works or breakdown of the associated costs. 
X instructed his contractor to proceed with the repairs as he says hed heard nothing from 
Zurich and he asked it to pay this full amount in settlement of the claim. Zurich hadnt had 
the opportunity to reassess its settlement in the light of these more invasive investigations 
and asked for further evidence to substantiate the costs. Given this and the significant 
differential between the initial estimate and that presented by X, I think it was reasonable for 
Zurich to request this further evidence. 
X did provide Zurich with his own spreadsheet providing slightly more detailed breakdown of 
the costs involved but I note a significant proportion of the costs remain unexplained. And 
Ive seen nothing from Xs contractor or loss assessor which provides a greater level of detail 
or explanation about why the work was required or any confirmation it all related to damage 
as a consequence of the escape of water.   
So, given Zurich wasnt able to reassess the extent of the damage itself and X hasnt 
provided Zurich with the evidence it requires in support of his claim, I dont think Zurich has 
acted unreasonably in declining to revise its settlement offer based on what X has provided it 
with. Should X provide any further expert opinion or evidence to support his position, Id 
expect Zurich to consider it.
Delays in claim progress and settlement 
As I explained above, there were various parties involved in the claim including but not 
limited to Zurich, its agents, Company H and the broker it used. Its not been possible to 
attribute individual periods of delay to specific parties based on the information Ive been 
given. On balance, it seems to me unlikely that the delays in claim progression can be solely 
attributed to Zurich. I say this as X makes reference to repeated unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain updates from other parties and lack of responses from any of those involved. 
I asked Zurich for an explanation of why the claim took as long as it did to give it the 
opportunity to explain where delays had occurred which were out of its control. I asked it to 
comment on a high-level timeline from the information Ive seen:
X first reported the water damage in March 2020.
He instructed his own contractors when, after nine months, hed heard nothing on the 
claim.
He only received a proposed settlement figure in December 2021.
He says he was only asked for a breakdown of contractor costs in February 2022.
The deadline for Zurich to respond was 16 February 2023 and despite this deadline passing 
some time ago Zurich didnt provide responses to my enquiries and it didnt comment on or 
question my timeline. Its recently requested more time to respond but Im satisfied it has had 
adequate time to do so already. I explained to Zurich in the absence of a response by the 
deadline, I would proceed with my decision on the basis of the information I had. 
Even allowing for the various parties involved, I think Zurich should have progressed the 
claim quicker than it did. It took approximately two years to get to the point it asked X for the detailed breakdown of the work undertaken and this is simply too long. Its clear from Xs 
testimony, he found the delays frustrating and stressful particularly given that he was unable 
to move into the newly purchased property for much of the time the claim was ongoing.
Taking everything Ive said above into account, I dont think the £150 Zurich has offered X 
fairly reflects the impact on him of these delays. Ive thought about this very carefully and 
Ive concluded Zurich should pay X an additional £650 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. I say this as Im satisfied that the £800 in total is reflective of the additional stress 
and disruption it has caused X beyond what I would expect in a claim of this nature.
Finance agreement
X says the delays have caused him financial detriment as the work he had undertaken was 
financed by a loan. He says he should be compensated for this. But I note this wasnt an 
aspect of Xs complaint covered under Zurichs final response so its not clear to me if he has 
already complained to Zurich about this.  
Once X provides Zurich with the clarification of costs it requires, it has confirmed it will 
reconsider its overall settlement in the light of this information so I will leave Zurich to 
consider this in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to pay X 
and X a total of £800 for the distress and inconvenience it caused them through its poor 
claim handling, deducting from this anything its already paid them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman