DRN-2964154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain about the delays and poor handling of their boiler service under their 
Central Heating Care policy provided by British Gas Services (BG).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q had a boiler installed in 2015 by BG which came with a five-year warranty and 
alongside this they took out a Central Heating Care policy. Mr and Mrs Q said they had 
intermittent problems with the hot water, and they were unhappy with the installation. 
BG sent an engineer who found that the central heating system required a power flush. BG 
said the tray part at the bottom of the boiler hadnt been fitted correctly and a temporary tray 
had been fitted which was insecure. BG said the power flush and new filter that were 
required werent covered under the policy and would have to be paid for.
Mr and Mrs Q said when the boiler was installed it wasnt power flushed and the wrong tray 
was fitted, and theyve waited four years for this to be corrected. They complained that BG 
caused them to take six mornings off for engineers, when this should only have taken two 
mornings. They said they were left without consistent hot water for six weeks and had to 
spend a lot of time on phone calls and emails to sort the problems out. 
BG apologised for providing Mr and Mrs Q with poor service, saying visits were cancelled 
due to sick leave and emergencies and another visit failed as it hadnt told the engineer 
about the work. BG said it would carry out a power flush free of charge, provide the correct 
tray and pay Mr and Mrs Q £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs Q said they agreed the compensation for the catalogue of errors BG caused, but 
BG didn't keep its end of the agreement as it sent a cheque in the wrong name that couldnt 
be used. Mr and Mrs Q said they werent now prepared to accept the compensation because 
BG had taken up even more of their time. They referred their complaint to our service.
BG said the complaint wasnt within our remit as Mr and Mrs Qs policies didnt include an 
element of insurance. Our investigator said we couldnt consider the installation of the boiler 
as this wasnt carried out under an insurance contract. But he thought the remainder of the 
complaint could be considered as it related to policies with an insurance element.  
Our investigator thought that the compensation offered by BG was fair in the circumstances. 
He said BG had correctly excluded the power flush under the terms of the policy, but Mr and 
Mrs Q could raise this with the Utilities ADR scheme. 
Mr and Mrs Q said installation of their boiler wasnt part of their complaint, it was the hassle 
of BGs poor service they were unhappy with. They said our investigation process hadnt 
been thorough and that we always favour the business over the customer. They requested 
an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that since their complaint all the work to Mr and Mrs Qs boiler has been carried 
out and the boiler is operating correctly. Mr and Mrs Q remain dissatisfied with BGs poor 
service and the inconvenience they had been caused.
Before I can look into Mr and Mrs Qs complaint, Ive looked at whether Mr and Mrs Qs 
complaint is one that our service is allowed to consider. I agree with the investigator that I 
cant consider the installation of the boiler and anything that may have gone wrong then as 
this was not carried out as part of a regulated financial transaction such as an insurance 
contract. In any event Mr and Mrs Q have said this isnt part of their complaint.
I am able to consider complaints about regulated businesses carrying out activities that are 
financially regulated. I can see that BG is a financially regulated business and so Ive 
considered whether the five-year warranty, and the Central Heating Care cover, are
regulated activities, like a contract of insurance. And I think they are.
The Perimeter Guidance Rules (PERG) which can be found in the FCAs handbook, gives
helpful guidance on what criteria is needed for a contract to be a contract of insurance. 
PERG 6.3.4 says:
The best established of these descriptions appears in the case of Prudential v. 
Commissioners of Inland Revenue [1904] 2 KB 658.This case, read with a number of later 
cases, treats as insurance any enforceable contract under which a provider undertakes:
1. in consideration of one or more payments;
2. to pay money or provide a corresponding benefit (including in some cases services to be
paid for by the provider) to a recipient;
3. in response to a defined event the occurrence of which is uncertain (either as to when it
will occur or as to whether it will occur at all) and adverse to the interests of the recipient.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Q pay for their Central Heating Care cover, so I think its clear
theres been consideration of one or more payments. I can also see the policy provides 
them with repairs to their central heating system. And the terms define: 
repair(s)/repairing/repaired as:
to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or breakdown but not 
repairs that are purely cosmetic (for example mould, dents or scratches) or related to 
software which doesnt stop the main function of your boiler, appliance or system from 
working or make it unsafe.
From looking at the regulated activities that BG carried out or were meant to carry out, I can 
consider the delays in completing the repairs to Mr and Mrs Qs boiler filter. 
From the description of the claim, I can see that Mr and Mrs Q were much inconvenienced 
and had to pursue appointments with BG by email and phone and be in regular attendance 
for appointments. I have looked at the record of the appointments arranged to deal with Mr 
and Mrs Qs boiler. Several of the appointments with BG came to nothing through no fault of 
Mr and Mrs Qs. 
Mr and Mrs Q said they had to take time off work for these appointments. Our service 
doesnt generally require compensation to be paid for taking time off work in the pursuit of a 
claim. The exception could be where theres evidence that a contract was lost or a piece of 
work couldnt be completed and charged for. I havent seen any evidence of this from Mr and 
Mrs Q.   I have also reviewed the record of communications between Mr and Mrs Q and BG and can 
see the efforts Mr and Mrs Q went to by phone and email to secure an engineers resolution 
to their boiler problems. During the email exchanges Mr and Mrs Q said they had completely 
lost patience with BG but would accept the £200 compensation to keep costs down.
Had BG made the cheque out correctly when it offered this amount in compensation to Mr 
and Mrs Q the complaint would have ended there. And so I think BG should act with much 
more care in its handling of complaints such as this one to avoid complaints escalating.
Im pleased that BG hasnt charged Mr and Mrs Q for the power flush. But I can well 
understand Mr and Mrs Qs frustration at the poor service they received and the impact this 
had upon the intermittent supply of hot water during this time. However, in the circumstances 
I think BGs offer of £200 compensation is fair and is consistent with awards we have made 
in similar situations and so I wont tell them to increase it. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman