DRN-4072015
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) caused a delay in 
making a drawdown payment to him from his pension. He is also complaining that his 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) was told that his payment was caused by an IT fault, 
which was subsequently found to be incorrect.
What happened
On 11 January 2022, Mr T contacted Scottish Widows to request a partial encashment from 
his pension of £6,000, including £1,500 in tax free cash. He was informed during the call that 
the payment should be made to him within seven working days. Scottish Widows wrote to Mr 
T the same day to confirm his instructions, but this letter did not confirm that the payment 
would be made within seven working days, instead saying that:
Well process your request and send the cash sum to you shortly
The payment was received into his account on 27 January 2022, some 12 working days later 
and five working days later than he had been led to believe. This payment was backdated to 
14 January 2022 to ensure that Mr Ts policy was in the same position as it would have been 
if the payment had indeed been processed as it should have been.
Mr T wrote to Scottish Widows on 20 January 2022 to make a subject access request, 
asking it to provide him with all the information it held about him. This information was 
provided to Mr T by email in August 2022, and in paper form as he had requested in 
November 2022.
When the payment was not received as expected, both Mr T and his IFA contacted Scottish 
Widows independently to enquire about the delay. During the call his IFA made, he was 
incorrectly informed that Mr Ts payment had been delayed due to an IT fault. The IFA 
subsequently passed this information on to Mr T.
Scottish Widows treated Mr Ts contact as a complaint and responded to him on 31 January 
to explain that the reason for the delay was caused by due diligence tests that it was 
required to undertake prior to releasing funds from his pension. It did not consider that it had 
acted inappropriately, or that it had caused any undue delay to his payment.
Mr T wrote to Scottish Widows again on 10 February 2022 to complain about the delay in the 
payment and that he believed his pension file had become corrupted, causing him stress 
and anxiety and reiterating his subject access request. 
Mr Ts IFA also provided further information to Scottish Widows in respect of the incorrect 
information that it had provided about Mr Ts payment being delayed by an IT fault. Scottish 
Widows looked again at this aspect of Mr Ts complaint and wrote to the IFA agreeing that it 
had indeed provided incorrect information and upheld that aspect of the complaint. As a 
result, it offered Mr T £100 compensation in respect of his distress and inconvenience.
Mr T was unhappy with this offer and asked Scottish Widows to increase it. Scottish Widows 
wrote to Mr T on 28 March 2022 declining to increase its offer of compensation.
Mr T then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and decided that although Scottish Widows had 
indeed provided some incorrect information to Mr Ts IFA, it had accepted responsibility and 
had made a fair offer of compensation.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator, so this case has been passed to me to review the 
evidence again and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, but agree with the investigator that the redress 
proposed by Scottish Widows is appropriate in the circumstances.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr T, so Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, in terms of the delay to the payment that Mr T requested from his pension, Mr T was 
told payment should have been made in seven working days and the payment took 12. I 
note that Mr T had made several previous withdrawals from his pension fund, so would have 
some expectation of how long it would take for him to receive the payment to his account. 
Scottish Widows have explained that the delay was because of the checks it is required to 
carry out to ensure that any money withdrawn from a pension is only paid out to the correct 
beneficiary in accordance with rules required by HMRC. These checks are required to 
ensure that a persons pension funds are safeguarded from fraud as well as ensuring that 
the correct tax guidance is followed. 
Although these checks took longer on this occasion, I cant see that Scottish Widows had 
any choice but to carry out these mandatory checks. It follows that I find that Scottish 
Widows has done nothing wrong here.
Scottish Widows did, however, make another error during this time, incorrectly telling Mr Ts 
IFA that an IT issue with Mr Ts account was to blame for the delay in him receiving the 
payment. Mr T subsequently formed the impression that his pension account had become 
corrupted and his account had been closed in error by Scottish Widows, which had kept this 
information from him. While I appreciate this must have been distressing for him, Scottish 
Widows has provided Mr T with an assurance that this was not the case and also provided 
him with records that show the transactions and value remaining in his pension. Im satisfied 
Mr Ts pension wasnt corrupted or closed in error and Im satisfied that Scottish Widows has 
done all it can reasonably do to reassure Mr T on this point.
Scottish Widows obviously made a mistake by providing incorrect information to Mr T 
relating to the reason for the payment delay, and subsequently made a payment of £100 to 
Mr T by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. I 
appreciate that Mr T thinks that this amount is not enough, but I find that it is an appropriate 
amount given the particular circumstances of this case.
Finally, in terms of the delay to Mr T receiving details of his subject access request, Scottish 
Widows has addressed that issue in a subsequent and related complaint that Mr T made, so 
I will not consider that as part of this complaint.Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything else to 
resolve the complaint beyond the compensation it has already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
However, I shall not be asking Scottish Widows Limited to do anything beyond what it has 
already offered to do for Mr T to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman