DRN-3871817
The complaint
Mr P complains that Salary Finance Limited told him he would receive a refund of interest on 
his personal loan but then froze the interest on his loan.
What happened
Salary Finance issued Mr Ps annual personal loan statement later than it should have. It 
then didnt apply interest to the loan for the period during which the statement was delayed. 
Mr P complained that Salary Finance told him in a telephone call he would receive a refund 
interest rather than interest not being applied to the loan. Salary Finance accepted it had 
caused Mr P some confusion when it spoke with him on the telephone but explained it had 
acted in line with the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974. Salary Finance 
offered Mr P the sum of £20 to reflect the inconvenience this matter had caused him
Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that Salary Finance had acted 
reasonably in freezing the interest on Mr Ps personal loan, and that its offer of £20 for the 
lack of clarity in its communications with Mr P was fair and reasonable. Mr P didnt agree 
and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, but Ive decided the offer Salary Finance made to 
pay him £20 for the inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances 
of this complaint. I will now explain why.
Its not disputed that Salary Finance issued the annual statement on Mr Ps personal loan 
late. Salary Finance apologised for this and that it had also incorrectly referred to the period 
of delay as August 2021 to September 2022 in an email to Mr P. 
The CCA 1974 explains that where a lender fails to provide a customer with a statement, the 
customer has no liability to pay interest during the period of non-compliance. However, the 
CCA 1974 doesnt tell the lender that it must refund interest  instead it says that a customer 
has no liability to pay interest during the non-compliance period. Because of this I dont think 
Salary Finance did anything wrong when it froze the interest on Mr Ps loan account, rather 
than refunding interest directly to him.
Salary Finance accept that in the telephone call on 14 September, it hadnt specifically told 
Mr P he wouldnt be charged interest, and it understands why Mr P thought the interest 
would be refunded. However, Salary Finance had already emailed Mr P on 10 September to 
explain it had issued the annual statement late and that it wouldnt be charging interest for 
the non-compliant period  although this did include the wrong date. A further email was sent 
to Mr P on 17 September confirming the correct non-compliant period. Salary Finance later 
apologised for the errors and offered Mr P £20 for the inconvenience this caused him. 
Im satisfied that as early as 10 September Salary Finance made it reasonably clear to Mr P 
that it wasnt going to charge interest for the period of non-compliance. I accept Mr P would 
have been frustrated that Salary Finance later referred to a refund of interest in the 
telephone call on 14 September, but by 17 September Salary Finance had made it 
absolutely clear it wasnt going to refund the interest to Mr P. Therefore, Ive decided that the 
offer already made by Salary Finance is a fair and reasonable one in this case as it reflects 
Mr P was inconvenienced for only a short period.
My final decision
Salary Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr P £20 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Salary Finance 
Limited should pay Mr P £20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman