DRN-4296204
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc declined her application for an overdraft facility on 
her student current account. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the Investigator for these reasons: 
Its not disputed that when Miss W initially converted her account to a student 
account, HSBC offered a guaranteed £1,000 overdraft facility on student accounts. 
Its also not disputed that Miss W opted not to take the overdraft facility at that point. 
When Miss W later applied for the overdraft facility, her request was declined. Miss 
W has said that it wasnt made clear to her - at the start, that the overdraft facility 
wasnt guaranteed if she applied later. But to uphold this complaint, I must find that 
HSBC made an error in its handling of Miss Ws student account and her request for 
an overdraft facility. And I dont find it did. Ill explain why.
While HSBC guaranteed the overdraft facility on opening the account, I dont think 
that means the guarantee applied when Miss W requested an overdraft facility 
months later. Even though HSBC didnt specifically highlight this, I find the website 
makes it clear that the guaranteed overdraft facility was available on application for 
the student account. I think its reasonable to assume the offer was put in place as an 
incentive for students to open its student bank account. Ultimately, I dont find HSBC 
treated Miss W unfairly, especially as the terms and conditions for the account also 
state that an overdraft facility is subject to status.
Even if it did specifically say that the incentive was only available when opening the 
account, Im not persuaded Miss W would have done things differently when she 
applied. I say this because, its clear that at the time of applying for the account    
Miss W didnt think she had need for an overdraft facility, and it wasnt until several 
months into the academic term that she made the decision to apply for it.
HSBC explained that at the point Miss W requested the overdraft facility it would be 
subject to credit scoring. I dont find what it said was unreasonable. Its common 
practice for lenders to carry out checks, including credit scoring to decide whether to 
accept an application for borrowing such as an overdraft facility. HSBC is entitled to 
decide who it lends money to and the criteria it has in place for doing so. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that HSBC processed Miss Ws request for the overdraft 
facility incorrectly. Im satisfied the application didnt meet its eligibility requirements. 
And Ive seen that HSBC explained this reason to Miss W. Therefore, I dont find 
HSBCs decision to decline Miss Ws application was unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate this has been a challenging time for Miss W and I understand she has 
had to borrow money from family and take on employment during term time, but Im 
satisfied HSBC has handled Miss Ws application for an overdraft facility fairly and 
reasonably, therefore I cant ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman