DRN-2246947
The complaint
Mr S complains about Allay Claims Ltd and the information they provided to his lenders 
when making claims on his behalf. Mr S also complains about Allays failure to respond to 
his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
In August 2019, Mr S instructed Allay to make claims for mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) against several lenders. Mr S signed several letters of authority (LOA) and 
Allay made the pre-submissions to the lenders, which asked the lenders to confirm if there 
were any PPI policies on any of the accounts Mr S held.
But no PPI was found on any of Mr Ss accounts. Some of the lenders responded saying 
they were unable to trace Mr Ss accounts and Mr S thought this was because Allay had 
failed to provide his correct address. He called Allay to query this and a new pre-submission 
was sent to one lender in particular, who then responded to say there was no PPI. Mr S was 
unhappy with this and he maintained his belief that Allay had failed to submit all the 
necessary information to the lenders. So, he made a DSAR to Allay, asking to see the 
information that was sent. But Mr S said this wasnt received, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S thought Allays failure to provide all of his information had led to his claims being 
unsuccessful. And as the PPI deadline had passed, he felt this meant hed lost out 
financially. So, he wanted to be compensated for this. He also complained about Allays 
failure to respond to his DSAR and the frustration and upset this caused him.
Allay didnt respond in the eight-week time period, so Mr S referred his complaint to us. But 
Allay did respond when providing their business file. They felt theyd provided all of the 
correct information to the lenders, so didnt think they needed to compensate Mr S. They 
also explained the DSAR had been sent on several occasions. Mr S remained unhappy with 
this response, so we continued with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said shed seen all of Mr 
Ss previous addresses were held on Allays system. And shes seen pre-submissions had 
been made to the lenders. So, she thought Allay had provided all the relevant information 
and that it wasnt Allays fault no PPI was identified. And she also explained shed seen 
Allays case note system, which showed the DSAR had been sent in October 2019. And she 
explained that she was unable to hold Allay responsible for the failure for the DSAR to be 
delivered, as she thought it had been sent. So, she didnt think Allay needed to do anything 
more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think the evidence our investigator relied upon showed Allay had 
sent all of his address information. And he also raised concerns about the signature that was 
included on the LOAs. So, he maintained his view that Allay hadnt acted fairly and wanted 
to be compensated for this. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise this impact this complaint has had on Mr S. Ive got no doubt Mr S 
feels certain he had PPI with several lenders. So, I can understand why he feels Allay must 
be responsible for the failure to reclaim this PPI, as they were the ones making claims on his 
behalf. And I can appreciate why he feels financially impacted considering how many people 
received PPI refunds over the last few years. But for me to say Allay should compensate Mr 
S for any financial losses, Id need to see evidence to show Mr S definitely had PPI on 
accounts with the lenders he authorised Allay to pursue. And Id need to be satisfied that it 
was Allays error which led to these PPI policies not being refunded to Mr S. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the LOAs Mr S signed in August 2019. These LOAs only details Mr Ss current 
address. So, I can understand why Mr S doesnt think Allay provided all of his address 
information to the lenders. But Ive also seen Allay had all of Mr Ss address information 
recorded on their system. And they say this information was provided to the lenders.
Ive seen several of the lenders replied to Allays pre-submission requests, stating there 
were no PPI policies on Mr Ss account. For those claims, I think Allay provided information 
that allowed the lenders to locate Mr Ss accounts so I cant say that Allay made an error that 
led to a loss of opportunity for Mr S.
But some lenders did reply saying they were unable to locate Mr S. So, Ive thought about 
whether I think this was because of an error Allay made. And if it was, whether Mr S lost out 
because of this error.
The LOAs Mr S signed in August only included his one address. And Mr S signed these 
LOAs to say this information was correct and he was happy to proceed on this basis. Im 
aware Mr S disputed the signature included on these LOAs after our investigator provided 
their outcome. But Im unable to decide on whether this signature was Mr Ss, as I dont have 
the expertise to assess the authenticity of signatures. Even so, Ive seen Mr S contacted 
Allay on numerous occasions after these LOAs were signed to discuss the actions Allay 
were taking. So, I think Mr S was aware Allay were acting on his behalf and he was happy 
for them to do so. So, I wont be considering that aspect of Mr Ss concerns any further. 
Allay have said they provided all of Mr Ss addresses, even though they werent included on 
the LOA he signed. Ive seen they were all listed against his customer file on their system. 
Ive not seen the actual pre-submissions that Allay made, but Ive seen they were sent from 
the case notes provided. So, Ive had to think about what I think was most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probability. 
And having done so, I think its most likely all of Mr Ss address information was provided to 
the lenders. This is because it wouldve been counter productive for Allay not to provide all of 
the information they had to identify PPI policies. The only way they were receive payment for 
the work they were completed was if they could submit a successful PPI claim on Mr Ss 
behalf. So, I dont think Allay would purposefully not include information they had readily 
available.And Ive seen several lenders were able to locate Mr S with the information Allay provided. 
Because of this, I think its reasonable to assume Allay did submit the information that 
allowed Mr Ss accounts to be located to all of the lenders. And I dont think they should be 
held responsible for any of the lenders failure to locate Mr Ss accounts, if he had accounts 
with them.
And even if I did think Allay had failed to provide enough information, Ive seen no evidence 
to show Mr S had accounts with the lenders who were unable to locate him. And even then, 
Ive seen no evidence to show that he had PPI policies attached to any of the accounts. 
Without this, Im unable to say for definite Mr S had lost the opportunity to claim for refunds 
on the policies. So, I cant say for certain hes lost out financially and because of this, I dont 
think Allay need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive also considered Mr Ss concerns about Allays failure to respond to his DSAR. But Ive 
seen from Allays case notes that this was sent by post and email in October 2019. I 
appreciate Mr S says this wasnt received, but I dont think it would be fair for me to hold 
Allay responsible for this. I think Allay reasonably responded to this request by sending the 
DSAR reply to Mr S, so I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. Ive considered all of the comments 
Mr S has made and provided to us and I appreciate he is certain he had PPI and hes been 
left without the opportunity to claim for this. And I do understand why the LOAs suggest to 
Mr S that Allay havent done the work he expected them to do. But I hope this decision goes 
some way to explaining why I think Allay did and brings some closure to Mr Ss concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman