DRN-1661387
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs O. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Barclays sold Mrs O the 
policy when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs O and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs O said she believed she took out the card and PPI by phone. But Ive seen a copy of her 
application form, and Ive concluded she actually took the card and PPI by phone. 
The application form sets out the PPI as a choice, which you make by ticking the relevant 
box. Mrs O has says that she didnt tick the box  she says the tick is different to the other 
ticks on the application form. Ive looked, and I cant honestly say there is a distinct 
difference between the PPI tick and some of the others on the form. But even if it were 
different, this wouldnt be strong enough evidence to conclude that Mrs O didnt agree to the 
PPI, or that it wasnt her who made the tick. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago.
So, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Os consent. 
I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Os 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think 
full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say 
this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less 
useful. Mrs O has said she had very good work benefits, although she hasnt been able to give proof of this. And Im conscious that this was a long time ago, and I cant know whether 
shes forgotten the details. I think its more likely she had more standard benefits. And, if so, 
its likely the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full sick pay lasted. Also it would 
have been on top of any sick pay and any redundancy pay, so would have helped her 
finances for longer anyway. 
Also, from what shes told us, it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. Shes told us about a medical condition but, although I 
cant be sure, she probably wouldnt have expected to need to claim as a result of it 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs O because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman