DRN-2322381
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr T are unhappy with the service they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when they wanted to port Mrs Bs mortgage to move house. The application was declined 
which led to Ms B paying an early repayment charge (ERC) on her existing Barclays 
mortgage as she took her new mortgage with a different lender to complete the purchase.
Whilst the mortgage application was in joint names, both this service and Barclays have just 
been dealing with Mrs B. Any reference to Mrs B in this decision should be taken to also 
mean Mr T where appropriate.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs B spoke to a Barclays mortgage adviser about the possibility of borrowing 
more money so she could move home. On 24 July 2018 the adviser confirmed that, subject 
to a full application and underwriting, Mrs B could potentially borrow up to £62,500.
Nothing further happened until December 2018 when Mrs B emailed the adviser to say shed 
potentially sold her house and asked about the maximum term for lending. The adviser 
replied that due to Mrs Bs age the maximum term would be 13 years, but shed moved to a 
different area of the business so could no longer give Mrs B any advice. She passed the 
query onto one of her colleagues who Ill refer to as G.
The next contact was in April 2019 when Mrs B contacted G to say shed sold her house and 
was looking for one to buy. She asked if she could borrow £65,000 over 13 years, and how 
much that would cost a month.
G replied that an affordability check would need to be undertaken and a phone appointment 
was booked for 1 May. The appointment was carried out but an agreement in principle 
couldnt be given for affordability reasons.
An independent mortgage broker acting on behalf of Mrs B submitted an application on 
10 July 2019. The application was for a mortgage of £65,000 to buy a property worth 
£95,000, with the deposit coming from Mrs Bs equity in the house she was selling.
Barclays emailed the broker on 12 July to say it was unable to lend on the application for 
affordability reasons and gave the details of why it had failed. It said if the case was 
remodelled then it could reconsider it. Barclays chased the broker on 18 July as it hadnt 
received a response, saying the case would be closed in five working days if there was no 
response.
On 19 July the broker submitted a change form which set out the details of various credit 
commitments that hadnt been disclosed on the original application form. As the change form 
wasnt fully completed Barclays went back to the broker to request the form be completed 
correctly and resubmitted.
The broker resubmitted the form on 25 July, and on 30 July Barclays confirmed it was still 
failing the affordability check.
On 4 September a memo was uploaded to say Mrs B was proceeding with a different lender, 
and the case was subsequently closed.
Mrs B spoke to someone at Barclays on 5 September and following that conversation two 
appointments were booked for her; one the following day at a branch where she needed to 
provide some documents to be uploaded to Barclays system, and the other the day after 
that which was to be a phone-based mortgage appointment.
Unfortunately, when Mrs B attended the branch the links werent working for the documents 
to be uploaded. Barclays again said the mortgage wasnt affordable.
Unhappy with everything that had happened, Mrs B made a complaint to Barclays. It 
rejected the main thrust of the complaint but apologised for sending a letter that had raised 
Mrs Bs hopes she would be able to get a mortgage after it had already turned her down, 
and for how long it took to deal with her complaint. For those errors it offered her £200 
compensation.
Our investigator looked at everything and was satisfied that offer was fair. Mrs B didnt agree 
and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I appreciate Mrs B feels Barclays was being unfair when it turned down her mortgage 
application. But it isnt my role to tell lenders whether to lend  and/or how much to lend  to 
particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement to decide how 
much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly 
and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks.
In this case, Barclays applied its lending policy to Mrs Bs application but unfortunately the 
application didnt meet its affordability checks. Having considered everything, Im satisfied 
Barclays didnt act unreasonably in being unable to take Mrs Bs application forward.
Im pleased to see another lender was able to help Mrs B and that she managed to buy the 
house she wanted, but the fact another lender was willing to lend Mrs B the amount she 
wanted doesnt mean Barclays was wrong to turn the application down. Other than the 
confusion at the end, Barclays had been clear both with Mrs B directly in May 2019 and her 
broker in July and August 2019 that it was unable to grant the mortgage Mrs B wanted.
The contract Mrs B had entered into in 2017 included an ERC if the mortgage was repaid 
before 30 April 2024. As Barclays did nothing wrong in turning Mrs Bs application down, 
then there are no grounds for me to order Barclays to refund all or part of that ERC to her.
Mrs B has said G was rude and unprofessional in their phone call, and more interested in his 
dogs than in helping her. In one of the complaint calls Ive listened to Mrs B says when they 
had their phone appointment G told her hed been to a funeral and was just going into his 
house and his dogs were looking for food. She said she was thinking whats that got to do 
with me? I dont know what happened and havent been able to listen to the call between G and 
Mrs B, but how Mrs B summarised things in her complaint call doesnt sound like G was 
being rude or unprofessional. It sounds more like a normal interaction with the adviser 
explaining why he wasnt completely ready for the call and trying to build some rapport. I 
would add that the fact the adviser still dealt with the call at home after having attended a 
funeral, rather than rearranging it to a time when hed be in the branch working, is unusual 
and, to me, implies he was trying to help Mrs B. It may be G was rude and unprofessional, 
but equally it may just have been a misunderstanding.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mrs B is the one bringing the complaint against 
Barclays, to uphold the complaint Mrs Bs version needs to be more likely than Barclays 
version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say Mrs Bs version (in that G 
was rude and unprofessional) is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me 
to uphold her complaint.
I understand Mrs B was put to some inconvenience in September 2019 when she was led to 
believe, for a few days, that the mortgage may be considered after all. She had a wasted 
branch visit and had spent time gathering the documents together. Mrs B had already been 
told twice that Barclays couldnt lend to her, and it seems a final look was attempted to try to 
save Mrs B incurring the ERC. For that final look to be made Mrs B needed to provide the 
information. Unfortunately, if a person wants to apply for a mortgage, they need to provide 
the information required by the lender; thats normal and not something for which 
compensation is due for if the application then cant be progressed.
Mrs B was in a very difficult situation and having read and listened to everything its clear 
how much this affected her. She had been through some very difficult times and was trying 
to improve things for her family. But I can only uphold this complaint if Im satisfied Barclays 
did something wrong and having considered everything thats not a conclusion I can reach.
Barclays has apologised for the confusion when it raised Mrs Bs hopes, and for the time it 
took to deal with her complaint and having considered everything Im satisfied the £200 it 
has already offered is fair for those issues.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider Barclays Bank UK PLC made a fair offer 
in its response to the complaint. I leave it to Mrs B to decide if she wants to contact Barclays 
directly to accept that offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman