DRN-2335220
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Astrenska Insurance Limiteds (Astrenska) handling and settlement of
a claim made under her household appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs S made a claim to Astrenska when her dishwasher stopped working.
Astrenska said they didnt have any engineers in the area, and based on the age of the
dishwasher, they said they would offer an alternative settlement to repairing.
Astrenska offered a settlement of £100.08. Mrs S was unhappy with this and complained to
Astrenska. They said that it wasnt guaranteed they would send an engineer to repair, and
based on the machine age, thats why they moved to the alternative settlement.
As Mrs S was unhappy, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought it was
fair for Astrenska to move to alternative settlement methods other than repair as they didnt
have an engineer at the time, but also based on the age and value of the dishwasher. He
said the policy terms allowed this.
He also felt that Astrenska had calculated the settlement fairly based on the value of the
appliance and depreciation. So he didnt recommend Astrenska do anything further.
Mrs S was unhappy with the outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I provisionally reached the same outcome as our investigator, but for some additional 
reasons. So I decided to issue a provisional decision before I made my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking, before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs S reported the breakdown with her dishwasher, Astrenska didnt send an
engineer and referred to the policy terms:
In the first instance We will try to resolve the issues You are having with Your
Equipment through Our helpline. If it is not possible to resolve the problems with your
Equipment over the telephone we may send an engineer to You to repair Your
Equipment.
So Astrenska said there isnt a guarantee that they will attend, rather the terms say 
may. Astrenska said firstly an engineer wasnt available, but when there was, based 
on the age of the dishwasher, they said it would be beyond economic repair (BER) 
and moved to an alternative settlement.
The terms do say may send an engineer as Astrenska has mentioned, so its not 
guaranteed one will attend, and I think thats clear in the policy. But they also go on 
to say what will happen in the event the appliance cannot be repaired or is BER 
(which Ill comment on below).
By not attending and inspecting (which the policy allows Astrenska to do), Astrenska 
has moved to this position based on an assumption that it couldnt be repaired and/or 
was BER, based on the age and current market value. Theyve said to this service 
they made an educated decision that this was the case. And because they deemed it 
BER, couldnt replace it with a machine of the same make, spec and age, they 
moved to the alternative settlement under the policy.
Mrs S has said that if Astrenska attended and inspected then they may have been 
able to carry out a repair, so the dishwasher might not have been deemed BER and 
fixed instead.
But as Astrenska didnt carry out an inspection, and Mrs S no longer has the 
dishwasher, I cant know for certain whether it could have been repaired or would 
have been BER based on the terms. So when reaching my decision, I need to 
consider what is most likely, and whether it was a fair and reasonable assumption by 
Astrenska that it was BER based on the policy terms.
The policy terms say:
Beyond Economic Repair
The cost to repair Your Equipment exceeds its current market value, so for the
purpose of any claim, Your Equipment will be deemed a total loss.
The dishwasher would be declared BER at the point the cost of repairing was more 
than the current market value. The machine was purchased in 2006, at a cost of 
£350. So at todays market rate, the value of the machine would have been much 
lower given it was over 14 years old. So the repair costs would also have needed to 
be very low in order for the dishwasher to be repaired (if even possible) and not 
deemed BER in line with the policy.
With labour costs, and parts (if even available for an appliance this old) in even a 
small repair, I think its likely that the repair cost would have outweighed the current 
market value of a 14 year old dishwasher. So I think it most likely the dishwasher 
would have been BER in line with the terms even if Astrenska had inspected it. So 
based on the information available, even though Astrenska didnt inspect the 
appliance, Im minded to conclude its most likely it would have been BER (in line with 
the terms) even if they had.
The policy terms say what will happen if this is the case:
In the event that Your Equipment cannot be repaired or is Beyond Economic Repair
We Will, at our discretion, replace Your Equipment with a new or reconditioned
Equipment of the same or similar make and specification, which may not becompatible with any specialist equipment You may have, or offer You a settlement, in
the form of vouchers, in line with the current market value of Your Equipment subject
to policy limits.
As Im minded to conclude its likely the equipment would still have been BER even if
Astrenska had inspected it, I need to consider whether the settlement offered by 
Astrenska is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Astrenska says that they couldnt replace the machine with a similar make or 
specification based on its age and market value, so they moved towards the 
alternative settlement. Given the age of the machine, I dont think thats 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Astrenska said theyve calculated the settlement by allowing a depreciation of 20% 
per year. By this calculation, this means the £350 value in 2006 would result in the 
current value being around £15. I dont think Astrenska has sufficiently shown this 
would be the case or that level of depreciation would apply here. So Im not 
persuaded you could purchase a dishwasher at this cost or by extension that this 
would be a reasonable current market value. But that doesnt necessarily change 
things here. Rather than giving £15 settlement based on that rate, Astrenska actually 
capped the value at £100.08.
So if Astrenska had offered £15, I likely wouldnt have been satisfied that it was a 
reasonable settlement and would have been minded to direct them to increase this. 
But given they have already increased this to £100.08, based on what Ive seen, Im 
minded to conclude thats a fair settlement in the circumstances for a 14 year old 
dishwasher. So Im not minded to ask Astrenska to increase this.
Mrs S has said she has had to pay around £500 for a brand new machine to replace 
the 14 year old one (including the £100.08 from Astrenska). But given the age of the 
machine, it would likely always have needed replacement at some point, and the 
policy doesnt cover a new for old replacement.
So I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, as I provisionally concluded the claim settlement 
already offered was fair.
The responses to my provisional decision
Astrenska responded and said they didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs S responded and said that she only had two points to raise. Mrs S asked who Astrenska 
were as she said shed been dealing with another company.
Secondly Mrs S has questioned the sale of the policy, and whether the sale should have 
been clearer about what cover the policy would provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive again thought about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having done 
so, I havent changed my mind.Mrs S has asked who Astrenska are, as shes only dealt with a business with a different 
name. The company Mrs S had been dealing with were the administrators of her policy, 
acting on behalf of the insurer in relation to the claim. But Astrenska are the insurer who are 
responsible for the claim. So as the complaint relates to both the handling and settlement of 
the claim, this is why this complaint is against Astrenska.
Mrs S has also said she thinks the sale of the policy was unclear, and that she should have 
been told during the sale about the limits of the policy against the price.
However, Im only considering the handling and settlement of the claim which has already 
been addressed by Astrenska as part of this complaint and decision. If Mrs S is now 
unhappy with the sale of the policy having made a claim and received settlement, because 
this is a new complaint point not yet investigated by the business responsible for the sale, 
she would need to raise this as a new separate complaint.
As Mrs S and Astrenska havent made any additional comments in relation to the claim 
settlement or my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from these conclusions. 
So my decision remains the same as my provisional decision, that the claim settlement paid 
by Astrenska is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman