DRN-3409557
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Aviva Health UK limited (Aviva) mis-sold his private medical 
insurance (PMI) policy to him. 
What happened
Mr D had a PMI policy, sold and underwritten by Aviva. 
In 2020, Aviva told Mr D that his heart condition would be considered as chronic and so 
there would be no further cover under the policy. Mr D says Aviva hadnt previously told him 
that his condition was considered chronic and he had renewed the policy yearly for a number 
of years with the expectation that his heart problems would be covered.
Mr D complained and unhappy with Avivas response, he referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that although Aviva could have told Mr 
D sooner that his condition would be considered chronic, he didnt suffer any loss or 
detriment as Aviva agreed not to treat his condition as chronic and cover any eligible 
treatment until his policy renewed in 2021.
Mr D says he would not have renewed the policy had he been informed earlier that his 
condition would be considered chronic and feels the policy was mis-sold to him. He says the 
policy was sold with medical history disregarded.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
When selling an insurance product, I would expect a consumer to be provided with 
clear, fair and not misleading information. When Mr D renewed his PMI policy, Aviva 
didnt tell him that his heart condition would be considered chronic, but it also didnt 
exclude the condition under the chronic conditions exclusion. So if Mr D was told that 
his condition was covered, that was true at the time he renewed. I therefore dont 
think the policy was mis-sold. 
Having said that, even if Mr D was told that his heart condition would be considered 
chronic at the point he renewed, it agreed to cover Mr D until 2021 in any event. And 
so he hasnt suffered any loss or detriment. 
The PMI policy clearly sets out that it will only cover acute conditions and excludes 
chronic conditions. But it does cover acute flare ups of chronic conditions. This is 
quite usual in these types of policies as they are designed to cover treatment for 
unexpected issues. As Mr Ds condition was ongoing and required regular 
monitoring, it meets Avivas definition of chronic. So based on this, Aviva hasnt 
given Mr D any incorrect information and has indeed covered eligible treatment 
relating to his condition and so I cant fairly ask it to return his premiums or pay any 
compensation.
Mr D has commented that the basis of the policy was medical history disregarded. 
This means if he suffered from an acute condition which he had suffered from before, 
it would be covered, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. Chronic 
conditions would always be excluded as set out in the policy. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my findings. But I dont think he has 
suffered any detriment. Even if Aviva had told Mr D that his condition would be 
considered chronic, I dont think the policy was mis-sold as his condition was covered 
until 2021. And it wasnt until then that Aviva treated Mr Ds condition as chronic. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman