DRN-3490245
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how hes been treated by Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr W suspected hed been the victim of a scam involving his laptop and 
contacted Virgin Money. It told him it could see five £100 transactions had been attempted in 
a supermarket using his card. Mr W confirmed he hadnt made these payments himself and 
the money was refunded to his account before it left, so Mr Ws account statements show 
the transactions as never having happened. 
In May 2021 Mr W was trying to pay some holiday costs online using his card on his laptop. 
The payment was blocked and he contacted Virgin Money to run through additional security 
checks. Mr W spoke to Virgin Money twice, but remained unable to make the payment so 
was passed through to its fraud team.
He was told his laptop was blacklisted as it had been involved in a scam previously which is 
why he was having trouble making the payment. Mr W explained the previous scam and the 
advisor informed him in order to remove any restrictions from his laptop hed need to agree 
he authorised the £500 scammers had tried to spend in December 2020 and pay this 
amount. Mr W was unhappy with this and it was eventually agreed the restrictions could be 
removed. 
Mr W made a complaint. He felt Virgin Money had tried to force him to pay £500 and take 
responsibility for fraudulent transactions. Virgin Money accepted the situation couldve been 
handled better. It explained it had given feedback to relevant staff members and offered Mr 
W £75 in acknowledgement of the upset caused. Mr W remained unhappy with the way hed 
been treated and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator felt the offer was fair 
and didnt ask Virgin Money to do more. As he didnt accept this, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the available calls between Mr W and Virgin Money. Ive heard that when 
he spoke to the fraud team he was essentially told that in order to make the payment for his 
holiday he would need to admit to making fraudulent transactions equalling £500, that Virgin 
Money had previously agreed he hadnt made, and that his account would need to be 
debited for this amount.
I completely understand why this situation wouldve been very upsetting for Mr W. 
Particularly given his circumstances at the time and the importance of this holiday for him 
and his family. I can also see it wouldve been frustrating to have to speak to so many 
people about the payment before he could make it. Its clear, and its accepted by Virgin 
Money, that the advisor that told him he needed to take responsibility for the fraud payments 
wasnt right about this. 
When Mr W was the victim of fraud in December 2020, because the fraud originated from a 
situation with his laptop, it had been assumed by the bank that the fraudulent transactions 
had been carried out using his laptop. The bank cant know if this laptop belongs to the 
customer or the scammer, so it was blacklisted and transactions were blocked to prevent a 
potential scammer making any future payments. This process was put in place to try and 
protect Mr W.
The advisor he spoke to in the fraud team understood the laptop to have been involved in 
fraud, which was incorrect, and based on this assumption they told Mr W hed need to 
confirm the laptop was his and hadnt been involved in the fraudulent transactions. They felt 
this meant confirming hed authorised the December payments.
Because of Mr Ws circumstances, the only way he could make a payment  which hes 
explained was very important to him  was on his laptop with his Virgin Money card. So I 
completely understand why to him it felt like he was being forced to admit to transactions 
that werent him. And I understand why this was very upsetting. From Virgin Moneys 
perspective, essentially it was trying to reassure itself that it could remove Mr Ws device 
from any fraud prevention measures by confirming it had never been used in a fraudulent 
transaction. So I havent seen anything to suggest the intention was to try and coerce or 
blackmail Mr W although I understand why thats not how it felt to him.
But, the wider point here is that Mr Ws laptop hadnt been involved in the December 2020 
transactions  these had been carried out remotely after hed been contacted online whilst 
using his laptop. So the laptop itself should never have had any restrictions in place any 
way. Once this was identified the restrictions were removed.
I understand Mr W has said he was able to use his card from December 2020 until May 
2021 without any problems and he thinks this wouldnt be the case if the situation related to 
the December 2020 scam. So he doesnt think Virgin Money has explained why it suddenly 
blocked the payment and believes it was trying to force him to repay the £500 he believes 
scammers spent. But as Virgin Money has since explained, its only certain payments that 
wouldve been blocked  transactions where an additional security step such as a secure 
passcode is needed.
I can see Mr W would like to know more information about the vouchers themselves and the 
initial fraud investigation. From what I understand this is because hes concerned there is 
more to this situation than hes been told. But based on what Ive seen this isnt the case. 
The first advisor he spoke to seems to have given him information based on their 
understanding of Virgin Moneys fraud prevention processes at the time, and Virgin Money 
has confirmed this was a mistake. I havent seen anything to suggest this was part of a 
process of trying to recoup any kind of loss from Mr W.
Overall I can see this has been a very frustrating and worrying process for Mr W and I do 
understand why. Its unfortunate the first person he spoke to provided incorrect information 
but Im satisfied this situation was resolved quickly and as I wouldve expected in the 
circumstances. I think the feedback given to relevant staff members and the £75 offered in 
compensation was appropriate in this case and havent asked it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
should pay Mr W the £75 previously offered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman