DRN-1844812
The complaint
Miss B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) applied a late 
payment marker to her credit card account.
What happened
Miss B had an Amex credit card. A payment was due on Miss Bs credit card account on 
19 October 2018, but this was not made by Miss B. Between 20 and 23 October 2018 
Miss Bs bank account and debit card were defrauded. 
Miss B made a payment to Amex on 29 October 2018 and this covered the October 2018 
missed payment and the November 2018 payment. Miss B said this payment was made by 
phone and it was during this call that she told Amex about the fraud on her account and was 
told a late payment marker would not be applied. Amex said the call where it told Miss B it 
wouldnt apply the late payment marker happened in January 2019.
Amex attached a late payment marker to the account because of the missed payment. 
Miss B said she had credit card with a different provider, who Ill refer to as Company A, and 
Company A reviewed her credit limit in December 2018. Company A reduced Miss Bs credit 
limit and she was asked to repay a significant amount of money immediately. Miss B said 
she was told by Company A that it reduced her credit limit because of the marker applied by 
Amex in October 2018. 
Amex said Miss B complained to it on 28 April 2019 about the damage to her credit score, 
although Miss B said she complained much earlier than this. 
Amex responded to Miss Bs complaint in July 2019. It said it listened to a call from  
22 January 2019 and agreed that Miss B was assured there wouldnt be a negative impact 
on her credit file following the October 2018 missed payment. Amex said it should not have 
set those expectations because it wouldnt amend Miss Bs file unless it had made an error 
in what it reported to the credit reference agencies. However, it said in light of the 
misinformation and incorrect expectations set, it amended Miss Bs credit file for 
October 2018. Amex also applied 10,000 loyalty points as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss B was unhappy with the response from Amex and complained to this service. She said 
she made multiple complaints to Amex, with one being ignored and one not investigated. 
Miss B said she was assured by Amex that there would be no late payment marker applied. 
She said she made financial decisions based on what Amex had told her and when the 
marker was then placed on her credit file, it had a significant impact. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said when payments are received late 
or not made at all, businesses will apply a late payment marker to a credit file. 
And businesses are obliged to report correct information to credit reference agencies. Our 
investigator said there were other late payments in March, May and August 2018.
Miss B didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
I can see that Miss Bs payment to Amex was due by 19 October 2018, but the payment 
wasnt made until 29 October 2019. I can also see that Miss Bs bank account was not 
defrauded until just after the payment was due. So it might be the case that the fraud put her 
in a position where she found it difficult to make a late payment as soon as she could, but 
the reason for the non-payment by 19 October 2018 was not related to the fraudulent activity 
on her bank account. This means Amex had good cause to apply a late payment marker to 
her account. 
Amex and Miss B disagree about the date Miss B was told a marker wouldnt be applied to 
her credit file. I havent looked any further into what date the call might have been made, as 
it doesnt affect my decision. Both parties agree Miss B was told this. So Im satisfied Amex 
made an error when it told Miss B it wouldnt apply a late payment marker to her credit file. 
Im not saying Amex didnt have a valid reason to apply the marker  Im satisfied it did  Im 
saying it incorrectly told Miss B that it wouldnt.
The crux of Miss Bs complaint is that she then relied on what Amex told her and made a 
decision to increase her credit card borrowing with Company A. But, in December 2018, 
Company A reviewed Miss Bs account and significantly decreased her credit limit. And so 
she was asked by Company A to repay the credit it withdrew. Miss B said Company A told 
her the review was carried out because of the October 2018 marker applied by Amex and so 
believes Amex is responsible for the position she found herself in. 
Ive seen information provided by Company A and it says Miss Bs account was selected for 
credit reduction on 6 December 2018 due to a bad customer score, which it said is typically 
driven by deteriorated bureau and internal performance. 
Although Miss B said she was told by Company A that the October 2018 marker was the 
reason it reviewed her credit, I can see that Miss B had three other late payment markers 
applied to her Amex account in 2018. These were March 2018, May 2018 and August 2018. 
In spite of what Miss B says Company A told her, I cant see any good reason why only the 
October 2018 marker would be taken into consideration by Company A when it made the 
decision to reduce Miss Bs credit limit. And Im satisfied a bad customer score will have 
taken all of the late payment markers into account. So, Im satisfied its unlikely Amexs error 
was the cause of the difficulties Miss B encountered in relation to her borrowing.
For the reasons outlined above, I dont intend to ask Amex to take any further action in 
relation to Miss Bs complaint and Im satisfied the steps its already taken in amending Miss 
Bs credit file and providing her with loyalty points compensates for any upset or 
inconvenience caused by being incorrectly told the late payment marker wouldnt be applied. 
I know that Miss B has some concerns about how Amex dealt with her complaints and she 
initially asked this service to look into this. But this service deals with complaints about 
financial products and services  we dont deal with complaints about complaint handling. So 
this isnt something I can look into. 
My final decisionIts my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman