DRN-4066426
Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs C bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in November 2015. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs C alleges that 
the supplier misled Mrs C into believing that the system would be self-funding.
Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to support Mrs Cs allegations so she did not think a misrepresentation 
had taken place.
Mrs C disagreed. She said (through her representatives) that she was focused on some 
personal matters after the sale, but as soon as she realised that the system was not 
producing in line with what she had been led to believe during the sale, she instructed her 
representatives to pursue the matter. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs C could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs C and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Mrs C claims that the supplier told her that payments from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme 
and a reduction in her utility bills would cover the cost of the loan, that the system would 
therefore be self-funding. She relied on this and bought the system on that basis. 
Mrs C hasnt retained any sales paperwork at all  which would show what information she 
was given at the time of sale. The supplier is no longer trading so Ikano has not been able to 
obtain any sales documents. Our adjudicator was also unable to find any general sales 
information from 2015 from this supplier  which would indicate how the system could have 
been marketed. 
Where there is such limited information from the sale, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
As mentioned by our adjudicator, Mrs C didnt make a claim against Ikano until around 6 
years after the sale. The supplier was still trading for a few years after the sale and at no 
point did Mrs C appear to have raised these concerns with them either.  
If Mrs C had been told the system would be self-funding, I would have expected her to have 
raised this soon after the sale when the benefits fell short of the amounts needed to cover 
the monthly finance payments. Ive seen no evidence that she did, so I think that suggests 
that the amount of benefit received most likely did not cause her any concerns indicating that 
they met Mrs Cs expectations from the time of sale. Shes also not given us much detail as 
to what exactly the supplier said or did that made her buy the system beyond saying she 
thought it would be self-funding. 
I understand Mrs Cs representatives have advised that Mrs C was undergoing medical 
treatment that she was funding herself, so her attention was focused on that. But 6 years is a 
very long time for her to have not noticed that the system wasnt self-funding, especially if 
this had been her main reason to purchase the system. And generally, where consumers 
have additional costs, I would expect them to be more concerned with their finances  and 
challenge such matters. So, while I sympathise with the difficult circumstances she has 
experienced, this does not change my view of her complaint. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mrs Cs testimony, on balance, based on the wider 
circumstances, I think that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me 
to uphold this complaint. 
So I dont think Ikano acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining this claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman