DRN-3229930
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about the handling of a claim under a home emergency insurance policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents and engineers acting on its behalf.
What happened
On 3 June 2021 Mr O reported a leak in his main bathroom to Aviva who provide his home 
emergency insurance with their Plumbing and Drainage Plus policy. 
An engineer attended a few days later and said a further appointment had to be made 
because the job would take longer than the allotted appointment time. 
The engineer attended a few days later and Mr O says he damaged the bedroom wall and 
the tiles in the bathroom while trying to ascertain where the leak was coming from. Mr O 
says the engineer then told him since the leak was coming from the shower unit itself it 
wouldnt be covered under his policy. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the service he received and so complained to Aviva. 
Aviva said its not liable for the damage caused or work needed to resolve the leak after its 
initial investigation into the problem.
Aviva said the engineer attended and explained to Mr O that since the pipes were located 
behind a tiled wall he would need to get access through it. Aviva said since the leak was 
behind the tiles the engineer had no choice but to go through them. Once the engineer 
gained access he found the leak was coming from the shower unit itself. Since the shower 
unit is not covered by the policy the engineer was unable to repair it. 
Aviva said it cant accept liability for the damage caused since the correct process was 
followed. Aviva said the policy confirms no cover is provided for damage caused by trying to 
access the leak. The engineer signed the disclaimer on behalf of the customer as was the 
process at the time, due to Covid-19, to accept access was needed to the pipework, and this 
would mean making holes in the wall. It says Mr O was aware any damage caused would 
not be covered by the policy. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the response and so referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Aviva had acted reasonably and within the 
terms of the policy.
Mr O wasnt happy with the response and so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr O 
says he wasnt aware of the disclaimer. And he says he didnt know the likely extent of the 
damage or that Aviva wouldnt cover the cost of the damage. Mr O wants Aviva to pay the 
cost of repairing the damage, which he says is approximately £400. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know Mr O feels strongly about this 
complaint and my decision will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Where information is unclear or incomplete, as is the case here, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities. So what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Avivas policy says that any losses as a result of an uninsurable incident are not covered 
under the general exclusions of Mr Os policy. It means any damage caused while it 
investigates or repairs an issue which Mr O is insured for is not covered under the policy. So 
when the engineer made the hole in the bedroom wall and went through the tiles in the 
bathroom Aviva wont accept liability for the cost of making it right. And the disclaimer shows 
Mr O was aware of the likely damage and consented to the work anyway. Mr O disputes any 
knowledge of the disclaimer.
I asked Aviva to provide me with some further information regarding the disclaimer including 
what engineers are instructed to do on site.
Aviva said its engineers were informed that they must sign their tablet on behalf of the 
customer during the COVID-19 pandemic. And so the disclaimer Aviva are relying on is 
signed by the engineer and not by the customer. Aviva said the customer is walked through 
the disclaimer before any work is commenced. The engineer will explain what damage is 
going to be caused before any access is made and why this is required. The engineer then 
gets the customers agreement to proceed. I have seen a screenshot of the brief that was 
sent to engineers explaining the process that they would need to follow. 
I have seen a copy of the disclaimer. Aviva confirmed that Mr O was not given a copy at the 
visit but he is able to request one if he so wishes. In the section where the engineer has to 
input details of what access needs to be made it says, open wall behind shower. In the 
family bathroom (wall is in bedroom.) The disclaimer then goes on to say Aviva will not be 
responsible for any direct or indirect costs, loss, or damage as a result of damage caused to 
the property. At the bottom of the same form under service explanation it says open wall in 
bedroom other side of bathroom to find leak
When considering the information provided to me by Aviva, together with the engineers 
notes and recollections, it suggest that, on balance, the guidance for taking the customer 
through the disclaimer was followed and Aviva havent acted unfairly.
The notes suggest the engineer tried to identify the leak in the least intrusive way and so 
went through the bedroom wall initially. And when he was unable to locate the leak that way, 
went through the tiles where he managed to see where the water was coming from. It is 
unfortunate that once the leak was identified it was found not to be insured under the policy. 
Home emergency policies, like Mr Os, only cover emergency repairs in certain 
circumstances. It isnt a contract of maintenance or designed to cover general wear and tear. 
So when Mr O called Aviva to tell it he noticed a leak in his bathroom, Aviva needed to look 
into what was happening to see if the fault was down to something covered by the policy. If it 
was, then Aviva was responsible for putting the fault right. And since the leak was not 
covered under the policy I cant say it has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in declining his claim for the leak and damage to his property while locating the source of the 
leak. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman