DRN-3285223
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) following a 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr S was approached by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems in 
December 2013. Ill refer to the company as E. Following a meeting, Mr S agreed to enter 
into a contract with E for it to supply and install a solar panel system. To fund this, Mr S also 
agreed to enter into a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
Mr S made a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that E had made a number of verbal misrepresentations to Mr S about 
the solar panel system that had induced him to enter into the contract. In summary he said E 
had told him the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan. 
To put things right, the representative asked Shawbrook to unwind the credit agreement 
returning any payments made with interest and remove the panels from Mr Ss property. 
Shawbrook responded rejecting the claim. It said that the potential benefits of the panels 
were estimates, it was clear the benefits didnt include the cost of the finance agreement and 
it considered the panels would break even in 13 years.  It also concluded that there might be 
a problem with Mr Ss panels and offered to send out an engineer to look at the panels and 
offered a sum in recognition of any lost benefits due to the potential fault in the system. 
Mr S did not accept the offer and brought his complaint to this service, 
Whilst the complaint was with this service, Mr Ss system was inspected, and the inverter was 
found to be faulty and Shawbrook arranged for this to be fixed.  Mr S says at this time he was 
told at the initial visit that his panels were not working properly and told at the second visit by 
different engineers that his panels were now working as they should.  
Shawbrook made an offer to resolve Mr Ss complaint.  It offered to calculate the benefits of the 
panels over the loan period and restructure the loan so that he would pay no more than that. It 
also gave him options as to how he could use his overpayments.  It also offered him £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr S did not accept the offer he said:
He was not convinced that his panels were repaired. When his system was first 
inspected, he was told that only half of his panels were working, and he was not 
convinced that this had been resolved.
He had at one point arranged with Shawbrook to overpay his monthly payments, but 
they had later reverted to his original payment.  He considered that Shawbrook did 
this deliberately to get more money from him
He had incurred an additional cost of £245 to have bird spikes and wire mesh 
installed.  
In response the investigator said that the offer from the business was fair and in effect made 
Mr Ss panel self-funding, which meant he would not be financially disadvantaged from the 
misrepresentation relating to the panels.  She pointed out that by capping the amount Mr S 
would pay to the likely benefits of the panels this was likely to counter any financial loss that 
Mr S might have incurred due to not making overpayments as he had wanted.  If Mr S had 
further concerns about his panels not working properly or issues with pigeons, these would 
need to be raised with Shawbrook separately, as they had not formed part of the original 
complaint to this service,   
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already said, before this service can look at a complaint the business 
concerned has to have had the opportunity to investigate. In this case, the complaint 
concerned the potential misrepresentation of the benefits of the panels. Other issues, such 
as Mr Ss costs for pigeon proofing, if he feels he received poor customer service when he 
tried to make overpayments or if the solar panel system fails again, these are not issues I 
can consider in  this decision.  If Mr S wishes to pursue these points, then he needs to raise 
them with Shawbrook separately.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr S paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S can claim against Shawbrook  
the creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach of contract in the same way he could have 
claimed against E, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
E, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of Shawbrook. 
Mr S says he was approached by E and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. Shawbrook are not disputing this and I will therefore 
focus on whether the offer made to resolve the complaint is fair. The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether it would be fair for Shawbrook to arrange for the removal of the solar 
panels from Mr Ss home and refund him all payments he had made toward the loan, minus 
any benefits he had received. Here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to require 
the removal of the solar panels from his home. Rather, I think fair compensation is to try and 
make sure that Mr S doesnt suffer a financial loss due to the misrepresentation which, in my 
view, would mean that the solar panel system would be cost neutral over the  loan term. By 
allowing Mr S to keep the panels, Im satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower electricity 
bills and FIT payments going forward.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the offer to make the solar panel system 
cost neutral over the term of the loan is fair.
Ive carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the system. This methodology is based on the actual 
performance and estimated future performance of the system.
Shawbrook has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Ss 
solar panel system, it will use a number of assumptions. Having considered these, Im 
satisfied that the assumptions that have been used provide a fair and reasonable basis for 
calculating fair compensation.
In the course of the complaint investigation Shawbrook has also confirmed that it has 
included the overpayments Mr S did make in its figures, and given that the calculations and 
estimations of performance are based on the actual performance of Mr Ss system to date, I 
dont think hes been disadvantaged by these calculations and the fault with the inverter, and 
this is a fair way to resolve the complaint.  
Taking the above into account Im satisfied that the current offer to make Mr Ss solar panel 
system cost neutral over the 15-year loan term, is fair.
I understand that Mr S is not convinced that his panels are working properly.  When his 
system was first inspected, he was told only half of his system was working. He then had his 
inverter replaced and was told by the second engineers that everything was now working 
fine.  I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that the replacement inverter resolved the 
issue that had been identified at the earlier visit, which is why he was later told that his 
system would now work fine.  So, Im not going to ask Shawbrook to do anything further in 
respect of this point. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means his claim should have been upheld. The fact this this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset. I consider the offer of £100 in 
recognition for this to be fair under the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ss complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Shawbrook 
bank must:
allow Mr S to keep the solar panels,estimate the potential income and savings to Mr S from the solar panels over the 
loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it should use 
Mr Ss electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the 
overpayment was made until the date of settlement,
pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman