DRN-1870162
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd has unfairly reduced his pension 
transfer valuation due to its own error and that a previous, higher valuation should be 
honoured.
What happened
Mr C had a pension policy with Aviva. It was a with-profits policy that had regular bonuses, 
along with potentially a final bonus. It guaranteed him an annuity at age 70. 
From 2015 onwards Mr C asked for the value of his policy several times over the next years 
and was given a transfer value each time by Aviva. The transfer values quoted went up and 
down over that time. 
Early in 2019 Mr C says he asked to transfer his policy. At that time hed been given a 
transfer value of approximately £179,000. He says he was told he couldnt do it without 
advice from a financial adviser. He then requested, and got, a further transfer value of 
approximately £147,000 in October 2019. 
Mr C complained about the fall in the value of his policy. Aviva said that the value had fallen 
for two reasons. The first was that it had incorrectly altered one of the factors it used to 
calculate cash values  the error had been made in 2016, noticed in 2018, and corrected for 
values issued after 1 July 2019. This resulted in a drop in the value of the pension policy of 
£19,000. The second reason was that it had reviewed final bonus rates on 1 July 2019  this 
resulted in a drop in the value of Mr Cs plan of £12,000. 
It said it was unable to honour the higher figures previously quoted in error as these
werent amounts that were ever due. This was because all quoted values are subject to 
change and can be affected by movements in market conditions or any
amendments to its calculation basis.
Finally, it apologised for the incorrect quote and the significant distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused and sent him a cheque for £450 compensation for this. 
Mr C wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He thought if hed taken his 
pension sooner, he wouldve secured the higher amount, which he still wanted Aviva to pay 
to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said Aviva were entitled to correct wrong 
valuations. She thought that if Mr C had decided to take his benefits sooner, Aviva wouldve 
carried out the necessary calculations and made sure the amount hed received was correct. 
So he wouldnt have received the wrong amount. It wouldnt be fair to tell Aviva to pay an 
incorrect amount that Mr C wasnt ever entitled to and in these types of cases our service 
would assess whether fair compensation had been given for the mistake and loss of 
expectation. She thought £450 compensation was fair and reasonable and she wouldnt be 
asking Aviva to do anything further. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, he said:
if hed requested the transfer between 2016 and 2018 he wouldve received a higher 
amount as Aviva hadnt identified its error at that time. But he decided to let it run. 
that he didnt think those whod taken their pension before Aviva realised its mistake had 
been asked for the money back. 
any valuation up to the point Aviva recognised its mistake should be honoured. 
it could be argued that the £12,000 decline was due to market fluctuations and maybe he 
didnt have a claim to that. 
Our investigator didnt change her view, so the complaint came to me for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence of Mr Cs complaint is that he thinks he should receive a transfer value for his 
pension policy that doesnt include any reduction for Avivas error. 
Im afraid I cant agree. The fact is that Mr C didnt apply to transfer the value of his pension 
at a time where it had the higher (inaccurate) value. If he had, it does seem likely that Aviva 
wouldve paid him the higher value, and I understand that this is a real source of distress for 
Mr C. But that doesnt mean he is entitled to that amount at a later time, when he chose not 
to apply to transfer the pension policy earlier. 
Mr C himself acknowledges that he sought valuations frequently and chose to let his pension 
policy run on. I think Aviva did enough to make Mr C aware over the years that the value of 
his pension wasnt guaranteed. This was mentioned in letters providing the transfer value to 
him. 
I dont think Aviva did anything unreasonable that prevented Mr C from applying to transfer 
his pension and get the benefit of the higher valuation. Aviva was obliged to tell Mr C that he 
had to obtain financial advice before he could transfer his pension pot as this is a legal 
requirement where a pension pot of over £30,000 has a guaranteed benefit.
Mr C may be correct that Aviva hasnt taken steps to recover amounts paid to other policy 
holders which included a higher amount due to the error. But I dont think this makes a 
difference to his entitlement. As Ive already said, Mr C didnt in fact apply for a transfer 
when the incorrect amount was included. 
As to the way in which Aviva has sought to convey the reasons for the difference in 
valuations, Aviva gave two reasons to explain much of the fall in the transfer value of Mr Cs 
pension. One was the error in calculating cash values, which Ive discussed above. The 
other was the review of final bonus rates in mid-2019. Mr C in effect conceded that Aviva 
was entitled to do this, and he didnt necessarily have a claim in respect of that. 
And Id agree - in my view Aviva was entitled to adjust the final bonus to be included in the 
transfer value so it wouldnt be reasonable of me to tell it to pay Mr C the higher final bonus 
amount calculated prior to mid-2019.So for all the reasons set out above, Im not going to tell Aviva that it must calculate Mr Cs 
transfer bonus to include a higher amount as if it hadnt identified its error  or that it should 
maintain a higher final bonus figure in the updated valuation. 
But although Im not going to tell Aviva that it must adjust its transfer value calculations, Ive 
no doubt that the correction of its error which has resulted in Mr C receiving a lower transfer 
value has caused Mr C no small amount of distress. Aviva has acknowledged this by 
sending Mr C a cheque for £450. I think this is fair - it isnt a token amount and 
acknowledges the very real distress caused to Mr C, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further, other than to pay the amount to Mr C if he hasnt already cashed the cheque and 
now isnt able to do so.
My final decision
Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd has already sent Mr C a cheque for £450 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd must pay Mr C £450 if Mr C is 
unable to cash the already issued cheque.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman