DRN-3551087
The complaint
Mr C has complained on behalf of W  a charity. Mr C contacted Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) by post to make an address change, but the request was not carried out. 
What happened
Mr C sent Barclays a letter to change the address on the W account. The request letter 
included two signatories as this was a term on the account.
Barclays responded to Mr Cs request to change the address explaining that one of the 
signatures didnt match the mandate on file, so he would have to call Barclays to rectify the 
matter.
Mr C attempted to call the number on the letter several times and was faced with very long 
wait times. He requested a call back as per the service offered on the phone line but did not 
receive one. When he called again the option for a call back was not available.
In addition to calling the number provided on the letter Mr C tried the number he found on 
Barclayss website to make a complaint, but the number provided was for a general 
operator. When he called the number he found online Mr C spent an unreasonable amount 
of time on the phone to a department that was unable to help him.
Since Mr C made this complaint on behalf of W the address change has been carried out. 
Barclays has also paid Mr C £100 compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.
Mr C has explained that the compensation he has been paid is not representative of the 
inconvenience Barclays has caused him. He would also like Barclays to correct incorrect 
information on its website and offer a better line of communication.
One of our Investigators considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr 
C on behalf of W disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to explain that the eligible complainant here under our rues is W  a 
charity. W has the relevant relationship that is needed to bring a complaint, as its a 
customer of Barclays. So while Mr C is entitled to represent W in bringing this complaint, I 
can only look at any impact Barclays actions have had on W as an entity  rather than Mr C, 
or any other individuals involved in the charity.
I can see from the information we hold that Barclays has not disputed the complaint points 
Mr C has raised and has paid him £100 compensation directly to his account for the 
inconvenience he had been caused personally. 
As I explained above, I am unable to consider the personal impact Barclays actions has had 
on Mr C throughout this complaint as he is not the customer. The £100 compensation 
offered by Barclays is therefore more than any award I could make, and I dont have the 
power to request further compensation for Mr C. If Mr C would like to now accept this, then 
he is free to discuss this with Barclays outside of this services involvement.
Whilst Mr C says the issues he faced had been a deterrent to other people becoming a 
trustee of W I have not seen enough to say there has been a financial impact on W, or that it 
has been inconvenienced in any other way that means it would be reasonable for me to 
make a financial award in its favour.
In addition to the above Mr C has also asked for Barclays to change the information it has 
online as its not accurate, and to provide a better line of communication. Unfortunately, as 
the financial ombudsman service is not the financial regulator, I am unable to ask Barclays, 
or any other business, to make this type of change. I can only, as I have, consider how any 
error has affected a complainant that brings a complaint to our service. And here, I havent 
seen anything that makes me think that W has been affected by this situation, or the 
information Barclays has online, in a way thatd be fair for me to say that it should take 
further action.
With the above in mind, I am not asking Barclays to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C on behalf of 
W to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman