DRN-2431847
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S say that Santander UK Plc told them their early repayment charge (ERC) 
would be refunded when they took out another Santander mortgage on the new property 
they were buying. After the purchase completed they were told they werent eligible for a 
refund because they hadnt ported their previous rate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
In February 2018 Mr S and Mrs S took out a new rate on their existing Santander mortgage. 
The chose a rate that was fixed until 2 May 2020, and if they repaid it before that date they 
would incur an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid. If Mr S and Mrs S wanted to not pay the 
ERC then they needed to port that rate (the 1.79% fixed until 2 May 2020) to the new 
mortgage and property.
Mr S and Mrs S applied for their new mortgage through a mortgage broker, so they didnt 
receive any advice from Santander. The application the broker made to Santander was for a 
new residential mortgage on a new interest rate (1.63% fixed until 2 December 2021); he 
didnt apply for the existing rate to be ported.
After the complaint was made, the broker explained to Santander that he didnt apply to port 
the existing mortgage because he was under the mistaken belief that it was a BTL mortgage, 
rather than a residential mortgage. He couldnt apply to port a BTL mortgage to a new 
residential property. This then brought to light the fact Mr S and Mrs S had been in breach of 
their residential Santander mortgage for a number of years as theyd been renting their 
residential property out without permission, which wasnt allowed under the contract theyd 
entered into.
As Santander simply processed the application that was made to it, I cant hold it liable for 
the ERC being due.
Mr S and Mrs S say Santander told them (on 9 October and 20 November 2019) that the 
ERC would be refunded to them, and it was that mis-information that led to them taking a 
new rate with Santander, rather than applying to a different lender for their new residential 
mortgage at a lower interest rate.
Ive considered this point very carefully, but Im not persuaded by it.
The recommendation document from Mr S and Mrs S broker said Your current mortgage 
with Santander has early repayment charges of £3,930. You have confirmed that you will be 
paying this from your own funds held on account. That document was produced for Mr S 
and Mrs S by their broker on 3 September 2019.
Even if Santander later gave Mr S and Mrs S the wrong information, telling them the ERC 
would be refunded, that doesnt mean this complaint should automatically be upheld and the 
ERC refunded. What I need to decide is what I think Mr S and Mrs S would have done 
differently  if anything  had Santander reminded them the ERC was fairly due in line with 
the advice Mr S and Mrs S had been given by their broker.
The application was made to Santander for the new interest rate long before the first of the 
calls were made, with the mortgage offer being produced on 28 September 2019. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr S and Mrs S only applied for a new Santander product on the belief 
theyd receive a refund of their ERC as the application was already at offer stage before that 
first call in October. 
Mr S and Mrs S have admitted the first call was only a request, which shows they knew 
when they made that call that the ERC would be charged. I say this because on our 
complaint form they said they made the call  to check the possibility of waiving of early 
repayment charges. They wouldnt have needed to call to ask if it was possible if they 
already believed it would be happening, so this proves they didnt apply for the new 
Santander mortgage because they thought theyd be getting the ERC refunded. Ive listened 
to that call and in reply to Mr S question if there was any way the ERC could be waived, he 
was told If you are redeeming the mortgage before the 2nd of May 2020 there isnt any way 
you could waive them.
In any event, the brokers recommendation report of 3 September 2019 shows Mr S and 
Mrs S couldnt have got a lower rate elsewhere. That said:
Following our initial discussions, we conducted our research across the whole of the 
market. We selected Santander as they offered the 2 year fixed rate that you require. 
Furthermore, they were willing to lend you the full amount based on your combined 
income, whilst offering low repayment charges. 
There were other lenders who offered lower or similar rates, but I discounted these as 
you did not fit their criteria based on your income and requirements.
It is clear from this that the broker  who was the expert in this situation  had looked at the 
whole market at the time and found Santander offered the best rate for Mr S and Mrs S from 
the lenders that would have been willing to lend to them. Ive reviewed the rates available 
across the market at that time and the rate Mr S and Mrs S got with Santander was very 
competitive and is seems unlikely they could have significantly bettered it, if at all.
Whilst Santander may have given Mr S and Mrs S incorrect information Im satisfied:
they didnt apply for this rate because of it as their application had already reached 
offer stage, and
it was unlikely they could have obtained a significantly (if at all) better rate elsewhere 
anyway.
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no order or award. I 
understand Santander has paid £150 compensation to Mr S and Mrs S for the poor service it provided, if Mr S still wants to return that money to Santander then he is free to contact 
Santander directly to do that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman