DRN-3813704
The complaint
C has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to add life cover to its 
pension plan.
What happened
C started a pension arrangement with Aviva for its staff in 2020. A Notice of Intent did not 
indicate that group life cover was required so applications werent completed at that time. 
Very sadly a member of staff passed away and in May 2021, C contacted Aviva and was 
advised no cover was in place. Life cover was then commenced, starting in June 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. He didnt find that life 
cover was in place at the relevant time. As no agreement has been reached the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
C is represented by Mr K, but for simplicity I shall just refer to C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties - no 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the key issue here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. 
I recognise that my decision will be disappointing for C, but I dont uphold this complaint for 
the following reasons:
I can see that C was previously advised by an intermediary and was given a 
presentation which included life assurance for pension scheme members. However C 
did not use the intermediary to place cover but rather placed it directly with Aviva. C 
requested that cover commence in September 2020. 
Although C says it had requested life cover, there is no documentation to show it did. 
Aviva says the Notice of Intent to put the pension plan in place had an option to 
include group life or group income protection cover but neither were ticked. This isnt 
disputed. As no application for life cover was made no premiums were taken and no 
cover was in place. This being so I cant say Aviva did anything wrong by not adding 
life cover.
I can see that on 28 September 2020 C made an enquiry. It asked two questions. 
The second was: Also if we are providing a life policy to broadly match the TPS is 
that arranged through yourselves? In answer to this question the operative said I will 
ask our Group Protection team to contact you separately. This didnt happen and 
Aviva subsequently apologised. C believes that this email clearly indicated that it 
required life insurance cover. I dont agree. This was a preliminary enquiry and not an 
instruction for cover to be put in place. Although the Group Protection team didnt 
contact C, there was nothing to prevent C getting in touch again or arranging cover 
elsewhere.
This is unfortunate for C as I understand from its complaint that it did want life cover 
for its members, and this is now in place. But as it wasnt applied for prior to the staff 
members passing, I dont find Aviva did anything wrong in declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman