DRN-2849712
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unreasonably refused to pay her claim
under her travel policy when the airline cancelled her flight for her honeymoon, leaving her
with accommodation costs which were incapable of being refunded otherwise.
Mr H represents Mrs H in making this complaint. References to Ageas include all its agents.
 
What happened
 Mrs H bought an annual policy on 3 June 2019 to start from 28 July 2019 and she bought it
online.
When she and Mr H got to the airport, they discovered their airline had cancelled the flight
for operational reasons. Their honeymoon was only for a few days and there were no other
flights to their destination, so they had to cancel their trip altogether, which given it was their
honeymoon was understandably very upsetting. Given the lack of notice, unfortunately their
hotel accommodation couldnt refund those costs, so Mrs H made a claim to Ageas for 50%
of this cost. Mr H also claimed the other 50% of the accommodation costs from his travel
insurers (not Ageas) which was paid.
Ageas said there was no cover under Mrs Hs policy for the flight cancellation for these
reasons under the cancellation or the delayed departure sections of her policy, so it wouldnt
pay her claim. Mrs H complained and also said in that case her policy was then mis-sold.
Ageas wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator
thought it should be upheld because Ageas didnt say such instances werent covered by its
policy. Ageas disagreed so Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2021 and I said the following:
First however, as this was what is called a non-advised sale since Mrs H bought it 
over the internet herself, theres no question that Ageas proffered advice to her about 
its policy. Further during the online process, the terms and conditions are available to 
view plus the policy summary which comprises the duty Ageas is under to ensure its 
terms of cover are detailed before Mrs H made her decision to buy this policy. 
Therefore, I consider there is no question that this policy was mis-sold since Mrs H 
chose it herself and therefore it was for her to make sure it was suitable for her 
needs.
In the policy it says the following for claims for the cancellation of a holiday:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the 
unused portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid 
or contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a 
full refund if you cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and 
return home early during the period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a 
close relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during 
your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not 
as an expert witness or where your employment would normally require you 
to attend court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was
booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted 
burglary at your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the 
Armed Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government
employee being ordered to return to duty.
The cancelling of a flight by the airline for whatever reason simply isnt covered. This 
isnt unusual as the same sort of clause can also be found in Mr Hs policy from a 
different insurer and likewise Mr Hs policy does not provide cover under the 
cancellation section if an airline decides to cancel a flight for whatever reason. 
Therefore, I disagree that such an omission should have been detailed and clearly 
highlighted. And the fact it wasnt, then means Ageas should pay this claim for that 
reason.
The section that covers instances of an airline cancelling the flight is under the travel 
delay section. In Mrs Hs policy it says the following:
This section does not apply to trips within your home country.
What you are covered for
AIRPORT LOUNGE ACCESS
If the flight on which you are booked to travel is delayed by at least four hours 
as a result of:
1. strike or industrial action provided that when this policy was taken out, 
there was no expectation that the trip would be delayed;
2. adverse weather conditions;
3. mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft.
We will provide access to an airport lounge, where available. Lounge access 
will become available on the announcement of a minimum four-hour delay, 
not, for example, two consecutive two-hour delays.
..
TRAVEL DELAY BENEFIT
If you chose not to, or are unable to take advantage of airport lounge access, 
we will pay you:
1. up to the amount shown in the summary of cover if the international 
departure of the public transport on which you are booked to travel is 
delayed by at least 12 hours; or
2. up to the amount shown under the Cancellation section of this policy in the
summary of cover if you abandon the trip after a delay to your outward flight,
sea crossing, coach or train departure from your home country of more than 
12 hours beyond the booked departure time; 
as a result of:
1. strike or industrial action provided that when this policy was taken out,there was no expectation that the trip would be delayed;
2. adverse weather conditions;
3. mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea
vessel.
Clearly since the airline confirmed to Mrs H that her flight simply wasnt going to 
depart, along with the fact there was no other flight to her destination, Mrs H 
sustained travel delay of at least 12 hours. Her destination was not within her home 
country as it was to a self-governing dependency of the Crown.
This clause covers the mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft. 
However, Mrs Hs airline said the flight was cancelled due to operational reasons. 
This according to Ageas means Mrs H cannot claim under this section because 
operational reasons isnt covered. However, Ive seen no evidence from Ageas or its 
agents whether it enquired with the airline as to what the operational reasons were 
to ascertain whether it was due to the mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the 
aircraft. Given it was high season at the end of July and Mrs Hs destination is a 
popular holiday destination, I would also imagine the flight was full. Sadly, this airline 
is no longer in being since 3 March 2020 and therefore I couldnt ask it for the 
explanation of its operational reasons either.
Mr Hs claim under his policy was paid given the delay section of his policy doesnt 
require mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft. Therefore, bearing in 
mind Ageas hasnt shown me it contacted the airline which it or its agents would have 
been able to do prior to March 2020, plus the fact that operational reasons could 
well mean mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft too, I consider in 
the very specific circumstances of this complaint only, that Ageas should now treat 
Mrs Hs trip as having been abandoned under the travel delay section of cover and 
pay her claim with interest.
The other cases Ageas quoted in support of its stance all concerned issues due to 
Covid 19 which arent at all relevant to the circumstances of this complaint since the 
cause of this complaint happened in July 2019.
Ageas agreed with my provisional decision. Mrs H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis Ageas agreed and Mrs H didnt respond, I see no reason to change the 
outcome. Therefore, I uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above.
  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following.
Pay Mrs Hs abandonment claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy.Add interest of 8% simple from the date Mrs H made her claim to the date it pays her. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mrs H for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman