DRN-2672987
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) gave to transfer the 
benefits from one of his definedbenefit (DB) occupational pension schemes, from his time 
working for a former employer, to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs been helped by professional representatives. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs.
What happened
A financial adviser introduced Mr C to BRG in 2017 in order to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs. 
BRG completed a factfind to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
It also carried out an assessment of his attitude to risk, which it deemed to be medium. 
On 18 October 2017, BRG gave Mr C a suitability report which advised him to transfer his 
former employers DB scheme into a SIPP with a provider Ill refer to as R. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were because:
Mr C had enough income from other sources to meet his needs from age 65.
The estimated growth rate required to match the benefits from the DB scheme was 
deemed reasonable when compared with the risks Mr C was prepared to take.
Mr C could leave the full value of the fund to his wife  in the event of his death  and 
not just part of it.
He had the potential need for tax free cash (TFC) without taking an income. An 
option his DB scheme didnt offer. 
The SIPP offered flexibility and potentially better death benefits than his DB scheme.
The level of the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV), which is the amount Mr C 
could transfer from his DB pension into the SIPP, was at an all time high. And as 
such provided a unique opportunity as changes in the market in the future could 
result in a reduction in the transfer value. And Mr C had said that his main concern 
was that the transfer value could reduce by the time he was 55 when he wanted to 
take TFC. 
Mr Cs existing DB schemes financial position was not good and was in deficit.
A transfer would allow Mr C the flexibility offered by the new pensions freedoms and 
flexi access drawdown.
Mr C complained to BRG in July 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
said, amongst other things, that BRG:
Inadequately assessed his attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Failed to consider and explain the high costs associated with the SIPP administration 
and adviser charges. 
Had not demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests.
Didnt obtain the relevant information from Mr C about his knowledge and experience 
with investments, his financial situation or his investment objectives.
Provided misleading information that the transfer would increase his pension 
provision.
BRG didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint; it maintained that the advice it gave was suitable. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld it and required BRG to pay 
compensation. In short she said that, as per the regulators  the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA)  guidance BRG should have approached its advice from the standpoint 
that a transfer out of a DB scheme would not be suitable, unless there was clear evidence 
the transfer was in Mr Cs best interest. She said that the investment return required to 
match the existing DB returns (known as the critical yield) was 7.79%. Similarly the measure 
used by our service for calculating the likely return required to match a transferred fund, 
known as the discount rate, was 4.1%. And given Mr Cs low to medium attitude to risk and 
the fact he was a cautious investor indicated he was unlikely to achieve the appropriate 
level of return by transferring from his DB scheme. 
The investigator added that transferring out of the DB scheme would mean that Mr Cs wife, 
who did not have a pension of her own, would lose valuable benefits from that scheme. The 
investigator also said that transferring out of a DB scheme in order to take TFC should be a 
last resort. She said BRGs advice to Mr C to transfer his funds so he could take TFC in 
order to go travelling wasnt suitable for him. She concluded that if BRG had provided 
adequate advice Mr C most likely wouldnt have transferred out of the scheme.
 
BRG disagreed, amongst other things it said:
Its initial assumption was that Mr C should not transfer his benefits from his DB 
scheme. But its suitability report set out why this was in Mr Cs best interests.
It doesn't use the critical yield figure as a measure to support or oppose a 
recommendation to transfer. Thats because it considers critical yield figures are 
unrealistic in order to assess the viability of doing so.
Mr C has a recognised health condition that could reduce his lifespan by ten years. 
But it had not made any changes to its calculations because of that.
A discount rate of 4.1% was reasonable but that is a figure net of charges and, once 
fees were incorporated into that, the figure could rise to 5%. It said that applying a 
5% gross return to Mr Cs fund meant his SIPP fund wouldnt ever run out. 
Our investigator wasnt right to say Mr C had a low to medium attitude to risk as it 
had assessed his risk appetite as medium.
The plan with R had a lower risk profile than DB schemes which matched Mr Cs 
level of risk. It said he was not a cautious investor but was prepared to take medium 
risks. 
The flexibility Mr C required was to allow him to take his TFC and access his fund in 
a flexible way, providing the possibility of filling a gap between his initial retirement 
and his state pension age. And that he didnt say his desire for flexibility was related 
to investment. 
Mr C had another DB scheme with his current employer which hed paid into for at 
least thirteen years and which would also provide a guaranteed income. 
Mr C had said that using his TFC to go travelling was only one of his objectives.
While Mr C will be reliant on his pension income in retirement BRG had calculated 
that given the likely benefits from his current employers pension scheme Mr C 
should have enough income to meet his needs in retirement. 
The growth rate required from the Rs scheme in order to meet the DB scheme 
benefits until age 86 was 2%. A 5% gross return would match the DB scheme returns until Mr C was 99 with money left over. 
Mr Cs health issue and his current employers pension scheme were good enough 
reasons to make the transfer advice suitable.
Mr C wanted to acquire flexible access to his funds for a range of reasons including 
provision for his wife if he died. It said that because of his health condition life 
insurance was a no no.
The death benefits to Mr Cs wife from Rs scheme were greater than Mr Cs previous 
DB scheme. She would also have access to guaranteed benefits from Mr Cs current 
employers DB scheme. 
Mr C was concerned that the CETV figure which was on offer would fall. BRG said 
that figure was clearly enhanced which almost certainly has a derisking added 
which the trustees could remove. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and BRG have made numerous points in both bringing the complaint and the 
responses to it. And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont 
intend to address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that 
are at the heart of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the FCA, says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, BRG should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Cs best 
interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in his best interests.Financial viability 
BRG gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future discount rates in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. The advice was given during the period 
when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for 
use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld.. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 65 was 7.79% if he took a full 
pension. I note that BRG didn't include in its suitability report what the critical yield would be 
if Mr C chose to take his TFC. And, although BRG clearly recorded that Mr C planned to 
retire at age 60 the only figures used in its analysis were based solely (assuming the DB 
pension fund remained liquid) on figures if Mr C were to retire at 65. But Mr C had told BRG 
that he wanted to retire at 60 and that he planned to take his TFC at 55. Mr Cs DB scheme 
did allow for early retirement but the figures BRG presented to Mr C in its suitability report, 
were all given on the assumption that Mr C wouldnt retire early. So it didn't give Mr C any 
indication of what his investment returns might be if he were to retire at 60. So I don't think 
BRG gave Mr C the full picture when recommending he transfer his funds out of his DB 
scheme.
Further, the relevant discount rate was 4.1% a year for 13 years to retirement, if Mr C was to 
retire at age 65. But that discount rate would reduce to 3.5% if Mr C were to retire at age 60. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. 
BRG has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr C wouldve been able to meet his 
income needs despite the high critical yield. BRGs told us that it doesn't rely on the critical 
yield measure because it doesn't find it realistic in assessing the viability of a DB transfer. 
But it agreed that a discount rate of 4.1% was reasonable. It said that, after making an 
adjustment for charges, in its opinion the 4.1% discount rate was equivalent to a 5% growth 
return. And its analysis had shown a 5% gross growth rate would match Mr Cs expected DB 
returns based on his acceptance of a medium level risk.
Its worth noting that BRGs cashflows were all based on a CETV value of £62,172. But, by 
the time of the actual transfer that figure had grown by 2.5% to £63,745. So, while the two 
sums arent hugely different, the figures BRG based its advice on weren't accurate at the 
time it gave that advice. 
I also think its worth pointing out again that BRGs models are all based on Mr C retiring at 
65 without taking his TFC. But that wasnt what Mr C told BRG he wanted to do. If hed taken 
his TFC from his SIPP at 55, which is what he wanted to do, then his SIPP funds would have 
dropped significantly. By my calculations, based on the figures in BRGs models, the sum 
invested in the SIPP would have fallen from around £61,280 to around £45,960 after Mr C 
took TFC at age 55. So he would have had a considerably smaller pot to draw an income 
from in his retirement than BRGs models show. 
Further, BRGs models dont reflect what Mr Cs position would have been if he retired at 60 
rather than 65. As I've said above I note that the discount rate would have fallen to 3.5% if 
Mr C had chosen to retire at 60. But the sums invested in his SIPP would also have a shorter 
time in which to grow, while at the same time being subject to the risks that his investments 
in the SIPP might not only fail to increase but could actually suffer losses within that period. 
Losses that would not occur if Mr C stayed with his DB scheme. BRGs models show it was extremely unlikely that Mr Cs investment in a SIPP could 
achieve the critical yield level. And I note those models also show that its own conclusion 
was that, if Mr Cs fund only attracted the lower rate growth of 2% then it would almost 
certainly not provide him with the income and security he needed. Its models do show that a 
5% growth rate would have produced a return that would match the expected income from 
Mr Cs DB scheme. But as I've said above, those models dont fully compare what Mr C told 
BRG he wanted to do with the likely expectations of what his DB scheme would deliver in 
those circumstances. So, as those dont reflect Mr Cs stated objectives, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to rely on them. 
In addition, Mr C had given contradictory statements concerning his capacity for loss. 
Indicating at one point that he had almost no capacity for loss. But at another point he said 
he could bear some potential loss in order to pursue long-term investment growth. BRG said 
that Mr Cs capacity for loss was increased because he could rely on his current employers 
DB scheme to provide him with the retirement income he needed, together with his state 
pension, once those became payable. But, I note that BRGs suitability report actually 
described Mr Cs current occupational pension as continuing to build up money purchase 
benefits, which  if accurate  would not be a DB scheme with guaranteed benefits. 
However, in its response to our investigators assessment of the complaint it said Mr Cs 
current employers pension is also a DB scheme, which would appear to be at odds with the 
facts it gave advice upon. So its not clear if BRG were in full possession of the facts when it 
gave Mr C such important advice.
Also, I can't see any detail within BRGs suitability report showing how it analysed the likely 
income Mr C would receive from his current occupational pension scheme and how this 
would meet his needs at retirement. In fact I cant find any clear reference in the suitability 
report to BRG having established what Mr Cs likely income needs at retirement would be. 
Instead it refers to these as: to be confirmed. So it seems that BRG gave its advice without 
a full picture of Mr Cs likely income needs in his retirement. And if Mr C did in fact intend to 
retire at age 60, although BRG didnt identify what level of income Mr C required in 
retirement, it seems unlikely the remaining fund wouldve met his needs until age 65.
What I can say for certain is Mr C had the prospect of a guaranteed return from his DB 
scheme which would increase each year. A return he stood to lose some or all of by moving 
it into a SIPP which had no guarantees of any return whatsoever. Also, in going ahead with 
that transfer the funds would instantly be subject to a 3.5% transfer fee. He would also be 
charged an administration fee of 0.45% each year and a further charge of 1% each year for 
financial advice. Those are charges that would potentially continue to reduce the size of 
Mr Cs investment but are charges that wouldnt have been deducted from his DB scheme 
benefits had he remained in that. 
BRG has pointed out that Mr C had health conditions which it says wouldve reduced his life 
expectancy by around eight years, and it made no allowance for this when giving the advice. 
Here, BRG is effectively saying that Mr C was less likely to reach his life expectancy, so in 
reality he would need to rely on these funds for less time. But I dont think it is reasonable for 
BRG to assume this without having a better understanding of Mr Cs health  if his 
conditions were well-controlled, Mr C still couldve met or exceeded his life expectancy. And 
in any event, I dont think Mr Cs health conditions were of such concern that he believed he 
wouldnt live a long life.For the reasons given above, particularly as BRG didnt paint a full picture of Mr Cs potential 
financial landscape if he chose to take his TFC at 55 or retire at 60, a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as BRG has argued in this case. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer was suitable, despite potentially providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
BRG said Mr C would be able to use the SIPP pot to take his TFC at 55 and then to have 
flexible access to his funds after that. Mr C had said he would like to use some of the funds 
for him and his wife to travel. He also said he would like to have the flexibility to access 
funds to meet his circumstances at the time. But while I can see why those might have been 
desirable prospects for Mr C it doesn't mean that meeting those desires was in his best 
interests. Thats because in order to have access to those funds before retirement meant 
giving up guaranteed income at retirement age. 
I note that at the time BRG advised Mr C he said he had no real assets, but he had no debts 
either. So there could have been alternative ways of Mr C and his wife funding his desire to 
travel, if he still maintained that desire, in four years time when he said he wanted to take his 
TFC. 
Further, while Mr C said he wanted the ability to vary his income as his circumstances 
changed in the future, at the time of BRGs advice he had no need to do that. At that point he 
was still 13 years from his DB scheme retirement age, 8 years from his preferred retirement 
age and four years from the date at which he could take TFC. So there was no immediate 
requirement for Mr C to transfer funds out of his DB scheme when he did.
BRG said that one of Mr Cs main concerns was that the CETV his DB scheme was offering 
at the time of its advice, would reduce before he became 55. The age at which he planned to 
take his TFC. In other words Mr C was worried that he might lose out on the transfer value if 
he waited until he was 55 to decide whether or not he wanted to take his TFC. BRG 
reinforced this point in its suitability report saying that the CETV was an alltime high and 
that this was a unique opportunity for Mr C to transfer the funds. It also told us that it 
believed the CETV was being enhanced by the schemes trustees, an enhancement that 
could be removed at any time. But, while the CETV was most likely influenced by the state of 
the market at the time, I've seen nowhere in the file, beyond BRGs comments, that indicated 
that the CETV was enhanced as BRG says. Neither have I seen any evidence that it was 
likely to reduce before Mr C turned 55. So I don't think BRG fairly presented the position of 
Mr Cs CETV at that time.
Mr C had four years before he could access TFC. He also had at least eight years until 
retirement. In those circumstances I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits in 2017, especially at a time when he didnt know 
what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out of his DB 
scheme he could have done so closer to retirement when he might have had a better picture 
of his income needs.
BRGs role should have been to advise Mr C on what was in his best interest, not simply to 
arrange what he said he wanted at that moment in time without carefully examining what his 
needs, rather than simply his desires, were. And while I can see why the prospect of access 
to a large sum of money to spend on travelling or otherwise as he desired might have been a 
mouthwatering prospect, that doesn't mean it was in his best interests. Its also worth 
noting that Mr C had no savings and had no investment experience at all. And, at most, he had a medium attitude to risk. So transferring his guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme to 
a SIPP which had the potential for losses, wasnt in his best interests. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people say they 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And giving Mr Cs wife access 
to the remaining funds in Mr Cs SIPP following his death might have been an attractive 
feature to him. But whilst I appreciate such a consideration is important to consumers, and 
Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP because of 
this, the priority for BRG here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
BRG explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to possibly accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for potentially higher sums being available to his wife in the event of his 
death.
Further, its worth noting that Mrs C would have been entitled to the DB schemes death 
benefits for the rest of her life. Whereas the SIPP would simply return to her what was left 
after Mr C had taken his TFC and any other income from it. I note Mr C said he wanted to 
use the money invested in his SIPP as an income between his retirement at age 60 until he 
could access his other pension provisions at ages 65 and 67. In those circumstances it 
seems quite likely that the sums invested in his SIPP could have been significantly depleted 
as he took sums from it. And that amount would likely be further reduced the longer Mr C 
lived for. So, depending on his lifespan and the funds hed taken from his SIPP, the fund 
might not have a large  if indeed any  sum left at the time of Mr Cs death. In any event, 
BRG should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher sums being 
available at his death through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the potential for decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
The financial stability of the DB scheme
It appears that Mr C was concerned about the financial position of Mr Cs former employers 
DB scheme. However, the funding of that scheme was not in such a perilous position that 
Mr C should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. I think this is 
something BRG should have been aware of and should have advised Mr C about, its 
certainly not unusual for DB schemes to show a balance deficit, but that doesn't mean they 
can't cover their liabilities as employers find ways to plug the gaps. Further, the scheme also 
had the added security of the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), which would have preserved 
most of his guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme had it gone insolvent. So, I think BRG 
should have explained that the scheme deficit was not as concerning as Mr C thought. 
Also I note that BRG said, in its response to Mr Cs complaint, that the risks to his DB 
scheme were higher than the risks associated with his SIPP. But I think thats a misleading 
statement. Mr Cs benefits from his DB scheme were guaranteed. His employer accepted 
the risks of any shortfalls and guaranteed to cover those. So Mr C would have taken almost 
no risk by staying in the DB scheme. And even if the DB scheme couldnt cover all its 
liabilities, as I've said above, then Mr C had the added security of the PPF. But, Mr C lost 
those protections once he transferred out of the DB scheme. And instead he would have to 
bear the full risk of investment losses should the SIPP not perform as hoped himself. Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But BRG wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice BRG gave to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C faced the possibility of 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer. BRG shouldnt have advised Mr C to transfer out of the DB scheme in order 
for flexible access to his fund and the potential for higher death benefits. Those werent 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme. And I think that if it 
had, Mr C wouldnt have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against BRGs 
advice. I say this because Mr C was an inexperienced investor with  at most  a medium 
attitude to risk. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted 
that advice.
In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. We asked Mr C if he 
had accessed his TFC or taken other drawdowns from his SIPP. But, to date, he hasn't 
replied. So, unless Mr C provides advice to the contrary I think it would be reasonable for 
BRG to calculate any compensation while assuming Mr C wont access his benefits until age 
65.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for BRG to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, hes said he plans to retire at age 60 but hasnt done so 
yet. But he wouldnt have had full access to his benefits from the DB scheme until he 
reached 65. So, BRG should base its compensation calculation on his scheme retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as taxfree cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
the acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. So any period 
of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from 
DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
BRG to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require BRG to 
pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
BRG pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on BRG.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Joe ScottOmbudsman