DRN-2236889
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Bamboo Limited provided her with a loan which she says was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Ms Y with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical 
monthly  
repayment*
1 July 2015 60 £3,500 £137.96
When Ms Y complained to Bamboo, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong when it 
provided this loan. But, after reviewing her complaint and learning about her changed 
circumstances, Bamboo made a goodwill offer to pay Ms Y £750 to settle her complaint.
Ms Y didnt feel this offer went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us. 
Ms Y mainly said that if Bamboo had checked properly before providing the loan it wouldve 
realised that she had other debt which she was struggling to repay and that the loan was 
unaffordable for her. Ms Y told us she had neglected to pay essential bills because she was 
worried about Bamboo sending threatening letters and contacting her guarantor if she 
missed payments on her loan. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and she set 
out the steps she said Bamboo should take to put things right. This included refunding 
interest and charges on the loan, with interest, and paying £100 to reflect the fact that 
Bamboo hadnt always treated Ms Y in a fair and reasonable way.  
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said that during the 
application process it conducted proportionate creditworthiness and affordability checks 
using internal and external data before approving her loan application. This included asking 
Ms Y about her take home pay, carrying out credit checks and relying on statistical 
information. 
Bamboo said its checks showed no evidence that Ms Y was struggling with her payments, 
she appeared to be managing her accounts well and that the loan was affordable for her 
when she took it out. 
Bamboo said that her later payment problems were occasional and short-term only and due 
to her changed circumstances. It said all the contact it had with Ms Y about this loan was 
respectful and in line with its obligations under the loan agreement. Bamboo told us that it 
showed forbearance when Ms Y had contacted it about payment problems. Bamboo didnt 
agree that the loan was unaffordable for her and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. 
Ms Y told us she was happy with what our investigator had said in her view letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ys complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ys case, I have considered 
the following questions:
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ys 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Bamboo then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, I will concentrate my comments on what 
I think is relevant to the outcome. I havent commented on everything Bamboo has said 
during the course of this complaint where theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said in response already. But I will deal with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint. And I hope that setting out my reasons will help 
Bamboo understand how and why Ive reached my decision.
Bamboo asked Ms Y about her income and expenditure. Bamboo said it did not require 
proof of income or expenditure as Ms Y passed its affordability checks at the time of 
application. It also said that evidence of her pay seen more recently confirmed that it had 
been fair to rely on the income verification tool it used as it was apparent that her actual net 
pay had been more than the minimum its own checks suggested. 
After doing its own checks, which included obtaining information about Ms Ys credit history 
and taking into account statistical information about how much someone in Ms Ys position 
typically spent each month on basic essentials and also allowing for Ms Ys spending on her 
other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that after making the monthly repayments for 
this loan Ms Y would still have £338 spare cash. So the loan looked comfortably affordable 
for her. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Ms Y. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Ms Y based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that Ms Y had taken 
advantage of all her available credit which had included, within the previous 
12 months, taking substantial cash advances on credit cards  which is a very 
expensive way to borrow money. 
Ms Y was making no significant inroads into repaying her credit card debt  making 
only minimum monthly repayments meant that she was incurring substantial interest 
on an ongoing basis and making no meaningful progress towards clearing that debt. 
As well as this, Bamboo was aware that she had taken out another large loan for 
£5,000 just two months before applying to Bamboo for this loan.  
I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed 
about Ms Ys overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated 
that she had disposable income of approximately £474 each month which, to my mind, 
wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried out. 
I think Bamboo should have considered carefully why someone with the amount of 
disposable income its checks suggested Ms Y had would have needed to make use of 
expensive credit the way it could see Ms Y was doing. And I dont think, based on 
what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Ms Y was going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a 
sustainable way. 
I think that Bamboo shouldve done more in-depth checks. I dont think its checks were 
proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, the total repayments Ms Y 
would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan term all lead me to think, on 
balance, that Bamboo should have carried out a complete review of Ms Ys finances 
and done more to verify what she had told it  especially bearing in mind also what it 
saw on the credit checks it did carry out.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Ms Y which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Ms Ys overall financial situation at the time. I think, if Bamboo had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was 
going to be sustainably affordable for Ms Y. I can see that, far from having the amount of 
disposable income left over each month that Bamboo had calculated, in reality Ms Y was 
struggling to keep her bank account in credit and in the months running up to taking out this 
loan Ms Y was making full use of a £1,450 agreed overdraft and paying bank charges for 
this. 
Given that Ms Ys monthly pay was significantly less than the amount of her overdraft, and 
knowing the extent of her existing credit debts, its difficult to see how she was going to be 
able to repay the £3,500 loan she had taken out in July 2015 in a sustainable way  in other 
words, without needing to borrow further. 
It seemed clear that Ms Y didnt have the amount of spare cash that Bamboos affordability 
check suggested. 
I think, had it done a proportionate check, Bamboo wouldve most likely realised that this 
loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Ms Y when she was already struggling to 
get through the month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway 
towards clearing her outstanding debts and she had other new debt that needed to be paid 
alongside this loan from Bamboo. 
Given her outstanding credit debts, I think if Bamboo had done proportionate checks it 
wouldve likely realised that there was a real risk that Ms Y might use this loan to help her 
meet her immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply 
add to her existing debt. 
Even if Ms Y had used some of the money to clear other debt (as Bamboo thought she had 
done with the £5,000 loan she had recently taken out) I dont think Bamboo was able to 
safely say that using its loan to repay other debt wouldve helped Ms Ys overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation  
particularly keeping in mind that she was signing up to pay a loan which could cost her 
around £8277.76 in total over the next five years.  
So I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided this loan. 
As Ms Y has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what Bamboo did wrong.
So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.Ive thought carefully about whether Bamboo acted unfairly towards Ms Y in any other 
way. 
I take the point that Bamboo makes about the forbearance it showed when it reversed 
late fees applied to the account and offered to change the monthly repayment date. And 
I understand that Bamboo needed to persist in trying to get in touch with Ms Y (and her 
guarantor if it chose to do so) when she failed to respond to its communications. 
But I think our investigator was right to say that making 50 calls to one consumer over the 
course of a single month was excessive. 
Whilst I've taken into account that Bamboo has explained it was attempting to make 
contact on 2 or 3 different phone numbers, I still think this number of call attempts was 
unfair and unreasonable. 
So I can understand why Ms Y told us she had felt threatened by this and I think its fair 
for me to reflect that by making an award of £100 in respect of the upset this caused her.  
I am grateful to Bamboo for the time and trouble it has taken to provide such detailed 
responses to this complaint  and I appreciate that its goodwill offer was made in a 
genuine attempt to settle the complaint at an early stage. 
But for all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo 
to take the following steps to put things right.  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Ms Y shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. But she has had to pay interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. 
With this in mind, Bamboo should: 
 add up the total amount of money Ms Y received as a result of being given the 
loan The payments Ms Y made should be deducted from this amount (not 
including anything already refunded.)
 
if this results in Ms Y having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms Y bearing in mind the need to treat 
her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Ys credit file regarding the loan
pay Ms Y £100 for the trouble and upset Ms Y experienced when Bamboo acted 
unfairly and unreasonably towards her.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms Y a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Ms Ys complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman