DRN-3121653
complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mrs C says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
AXA has told us Mrs C paid less than £11 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Cs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs C says the PPI was just included on her agreement. But her credit agreement form 
had a separate Payment Protection Insurance section for the PPI, with a space for her 
to sign if she wanted the cover  and it said: only sign if you want cover. Nothing on the 
form said the PPI had to be taken. Mrs C signed the space to take the PPI, separately 
from signing for the credit itself, and I think she wouldve known she shouldnt sign for 
the cover if she didnt want it. Overall, what I have makes me think it more likely AXA 
made it clear Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I think it unlikely she wouldve 
done so without at least a broad idea of the cover it provided - so it looks to me like 
Mrs C wanted this type of cover. Also I dont think it was fundamentally wrong for her. 
For example, nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it hard to claim. Also, 
from her lack of other means beyond statutory benefits, it seems like the policy benefit 
wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.
Mrs C has told us of a health issue she missed two weeks work with around nine years 
before she took the policy. She couldnt claim on the policy for work absences if due to a 
health issue already existing or known at the start  and the policy also imposed more 
onerous evidential requirements for disability claims related to back pain. But the time 
that passed since Mrs Cs health issue, and the absence of anything to suggest it was a 
significant continuing concern at the time of the sale, makes me think it unlikely Mrs Cs 
decision to take cover wouldve changed had she been told more at the sale about the 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions or the back pain terms.
Taking all this into account, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mrs C 
and overall I think it likely the cover was similar enough to what she thought she was 
buying, from the information its likely she was given. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think she wouldve have declined it had AXA done anything more.
While the policy also contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her despite its limitations and exclusions and, given also what I 
discussed above, I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs C wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman