DRN-2598440
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) when 
he transferred benefits worth over £230,000 from his existing Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to another SIPP.
The majority of his funds were subsequently invested in high-risk investments which are now 
without value. Mr C said he thought he was investing in low risk bonds which would grow in 
value and allow him to retire within five years. 
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Alastair Brown (AB) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
Shard Capital Limited (Shard)- stockbroker
Horizon Stockbrocking (HS)  discretionary investment manager
London & Colonial (L&C)  SIPP provider
Mr C says when his previous financial adviser retired, he reached out to find a new adviser 
and got in touch with AB who subsequently introduced him to Pi.
A letter from Mr C to Pi dated 20 October 2014 said:
I would like to transfer my existing Pension Plan. into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan in order to allow me to access a wider range of investment. Could you please 
recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer accordingly. Please 
note that I have a separate investment advisor who will be arranging the investments to be 
held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require any advice from you concerning this, or 
the suitability of the platform.
Mr C only signed that letter on 24 October 2014 which is when he signed a lot of other 
documents.
Pi replied by letter dated 22 October 2014 which said:
 
Thank you for your letter of 20 October 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current Pension Plan into a new Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). I confirm I am happy to 
carry out your request and I will research the whole of the market to find the most 
appropriate SIPP for your requirements.. I will have no input in the investment strategy for 
your SIPP funds, as you are using a separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will 
only be responsible for arranging, and transferring your funds into the SIPP  
The Pi adviser wrote a file note which said Mr C lost a considerable amount of money in the 
2 years he has held his SIPP and is not happy with the fund choice as he cant self-select 
investments and can only choose from their panel of funds.
Various documents were completed and signed on the same day, on 24 October 2014. This 
included 
A service and client agreement with Pi
A fact find which confirmed Mr Cs circumstances at the time
Pension Replacement Contract Forms
Knowledge and Experience Assessment 
A recommendation letter was issued on 29 October 2014. It recommended Mr C transfer his 
existing SIPP into a SIPP with L&C. 
Mr C signed the suitability report on 31 October. On the same day he completed an account 
opening form for Strand which stated his risk profile as medium. Ive also seen the L&C SIPP 
application which showed Pi as Mr Cs financial adviser and noted yes behind the 
statement: 
Advice given at point of sale to client that takes account of the intended underlying 
investment strategy
The investment manager was shown as Strand.
In December 2014, Mr Cs SIPP (worth £231,719.25) was transferred to a SIPP with L&C. 
Shortly after, £110,100 was transferred from the SIPP to Strand, and subsequently invested 
in the Optima Worldwide Group (OWG) bond. Another £116,452.06 were invested in an 
investment portfolio with HS through Shard in January 2015.
Mr C says in 2016 AB and Pi told him his share portfolio had lost value and as the OWG 
bonds were providing a guaranteed income, he should sell his Shard/HS investment portfolio 
and invest the remaining funds in OWG instead. Mr C followed this advice and invested 
another £90,000 into OWG. So by 2016 he was nearly fully invested in OWG. OWG paid out 
income payments for a couple of years, but when Strand went into liquidation in 2017, these 
stopped and Mr C cannot access his funds as they are illiquid. 
Mr C raised a complaint to Pi in 2019 regarding the unsuitable advice he said had been 
provided to him. Pi didnt uphold the complaint and it was subsequently referred to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mr C had been suitable. Pi disagreed that they 
should be held responsible for Mr Cs losses. The complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. They also submitted more 
comments on a similar complaint which are relevant to Mr Cs complaint too, so Ive taken them into account as well. However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to be the 
key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr C instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mr C with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Pi didnt provide Mr 
C with advice on the switch between SIPPs or on the investments within the SIPP. 
Given the limited nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that 
its recommendation was suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any 
liability could only be in regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr C.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party and not Pi who only played a very limited role here. The SIPP 
recommendation has not caused Mr Cs losses. They were caused by HSs 
investment advice. 
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr C investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr C would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr C did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr C with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr C. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 28 October 2014 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which - after comparing several SIPPs and providers - recommended the 
L&C Multi-Platform SIPP for Mr C. 
The recommendation letter dated 29 October 2014 which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP. 
I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your existing.Pension Plan. 
Pi went on to make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a Multi Platform 
SIPP from London & Colonial.
Its worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why its suitable to your current circumstances. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr C. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr C when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in COBS 
9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Cs instructions. Mr 
C had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice to switch to another SIPP or 
where funds would be invested.The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Cs objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Cs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments. 
I consider the risks of Mr C transferring his existing SIPP and the risks of his intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr C wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr C was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Cs wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible. I also note that Pi knew Mr C was receiving investment advice from 
an unregulated party, so should have taken particular care here. 
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitableAnd it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest. I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alerts just provide 
clarification and set out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Cs wider 
circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from an existing 
SIPP to a new SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. As mentioned above I would also like to repeat here that Pis 
adviser confirmed in the SIPP application he had taken into account the underlying 
investments when giving advice which is contrary to what Pi is claiming now.
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr C to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr C were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Cs intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr C.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Cs case. 
 With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr C on the suitability of the L&C SIPP, Pi had to 
consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch and 
where Mr C intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr C with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr C was 56, married and had an income of £88k a year. He had an outstanding mortgage 
of £218k on his home and he had another property which he was planning to sell. The 
Knowledge and Experience assessment showed that Mr C had investment products in the 
past like his pension and a stocks and shares ISA. However, he was given financial advice 
on every investment product he ever took out. I cant see evidence that Mr C was a 
particularly experienced investor and from what Ive seen he relied on professional advice. 
His existing SIPP was managed by his previous financial adviser. 
Theres no written evidence that Pi knew how exactly Mr Cs funds would be invested. 
However, Mr C has given persuasive testimony that both Pis adviser and AB were present 
at the meeting with him and both recommended the guaranteed bonds. Also, Pi said on 
another case where a client was introduced by an unregulated introducer and had invested 
in OWG that they did due diligence on the OWG investment. Given that the advice 
happened around the same time as Mr Cs advice, I consider it likely Pi would have done the 
same for Mr C and would have known what he was about to invest in. And even if Im wrong 
about this, Pi needed to establish what Mr C was intending to invest in through the SIPP in 
any event in order to provide a suitable recommendation.  
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us) confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mr C completed that he didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of his retirement funds. The 
replacement contract notes state that Mr Cs existing SIPP was invested in a balanced, 
managed portfolio and his attitude to risk in the Strand application form was recorded as medium. So I think this investment exceeded by far his attitude to risk. Pi have already 
confirmed on a different case that they agree the OWG investment was unsuitable for retail 
customers, so I dont think this is really in dispute.
Also, Mr C told us he wanted to semi-retire about 5 years later. Although Mr C confirmed he 
had a company pension with his employer at the time, the SIPP constituted the majority of 
his retirement provision and he and his wife (who only had a small ill-health pension) would 
be heavily relying on these funds. So I also dont think he had the necessary capacity to take 
such a high risk with his SIPP funds.
Given Mr Cs lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded he was a credible self-
investor who needed a wider investment selection than he already had. I cant see any 
persuasive reasons why Mr C needed to change his SIPP at all and incur the related transfer 
costs of over £4,600 other than facilitate the investments through HS into OWG. I cant see 
that the reasons for perceived poor performance in his existing SIPP were even explored. I 
think a switch of funds within his existing SIPP should have been considered if necessary 
and I think its more likely than not suitable investments couldve been selected this way.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the switching to another SIPP and subsequent 
investment into OWG was unsuitable for Mr C. I appreciate that around half of his funds 
were initially invested in another HS portfolio and theres not much information how this was 
invested. However, even if I assumed this sum was invested in low or medium risk 
investments, I cant see any persuasive reasons why Mr C needed to switch his SIPP at all. 
And investing nearly half of his funds into a high risk, unregulated product wouldnt have 
been outweighed by a medium or even low risk portfolio for the other half.
Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended investment into OWG was too high risk 
and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Cs circumstances. Despite this, they 
recommended a SIPP which facilitated this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended another SIPP to Mr C. They should 
have explained that there was no obvious need to switch SIPPs and that his intended 
investment was too high risk and not in his best interest. 
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
to Mr C. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Cs interests and did not take reasonable steps to 
ensure that their personal recommendation was suitable for Mr C as per their regulatory 
obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr C were fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr C have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr C would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told him. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Mr C was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that AB might have 
influenced Mr C in the background and could have persuaded him to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mr 
C had no significant investment experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to 
properly understand the risks he was taking with his pension here. Given that Pi knew that there was a risk Mr C was being influenced by AB and potentially not 
given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they should have established 
what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Cs overall 
financial position. He didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which 
was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a 
regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend another SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his 
circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to proceed.
If AB had tried to persuade him to switch anyway, Mr C would have faced a choice between 
taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not persuaded the 
evidence suggests Mr C was so strongly motivated to make the transaction that he would 
have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. 
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr C would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for him. 
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr C. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent that 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr C would be invested in. If they had done so, they 
would have known his intended investment in OWG was high risk and unsuitable for him.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr C with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have known he was 
about to invest into an unsuitable product.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr C unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr C more 
likely than not would have not proceeded with the switch to another SIPP. Having 
considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr C for 
any losses he suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Cs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mr C.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Mr C wouldnt have been in the L&C SIPP and the OWG investment at all if 
Pi had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have 
suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr C suffered from the 
high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice. 
Its unclear when and if OWG will distribute any funds to customers. So in the circumstances 
I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mr C now. Ive included ways to ensure Mr C is not 
overcompensated in the redress below. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Cs losses my aim is to put him as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. However, Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr C's circumstances when he invested. 
To compensate Mr C fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Pi should add 
interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, Pi 
should pay that amount direct to Mr C. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interestSIPPstill exists, 
but illiquidFor half of the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index
For the other 
half: 
Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
transfer date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of final 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
I understand Mr Cs OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the open 
market. This means it can be complicated to establish the actual value. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above. 
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to pay 
Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr C paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. His existing funds were 
invested in balanced portfolio and in his Strand application a box was ticked to say 
he had a medium risk profile. However, he was concerned about losses in his SIPP 
and he had plans to at least semi-retire within five years, so I think he would have 
taken a lower risk approach to his pensionThe average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean that he 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude. 
In addition, Pi should pay Mr C £750 for the distress he suffered when he realised he had 
lost the majority of his pension. He had to change his retirement plans and this matter has 
had a substantial impact on his health and well-being over the past few years.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr C in a clear and simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to 
compensate Mr C as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000 (plus interest if paid after 
28 days after Mr C accepted this decision).
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Pi Financial Ltd doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman