DRN-3943065
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In February 2021, Mr M received two payments totalling £749.11 into his current account. 
Just over £325 of the funds were immediately transferred on to a third-party. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification that the payee of the funds had reported being a 
victim of fraud. Lloyds reviewed Mr Ms account and as a result of its investigation, it decided 
to close Mr Ms account and record a fraud prevention marker. 
Mr M subsequently complained. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.    Mr M disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Mr M allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ms 
account in February 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr M was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr M has said he has no knowledge of the fraudulent activity. He said he was studying 
abroad at the time the activity took place and he only used the account to make transfers to 
family. Mr M also confirmed that he never shared his account details or security credentials 
with anyone else. Finally he also said that its possible he may have fallen victim to a 
phishing scam, although hes not provided anything to substantiate this.  
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But even if I were to accept that Mr M might have 
fallen to a phishing scam (and Im not persuaded this is the case), I cant see how an 
opportunistic fraudster would have been able to access the text message sent to Mr Ms 
phone, to authorise the device used to make the funds transfer, without his cooperation. And 
without a plausible explanation of how someone would have been able to obtain Mr Ms 
device and credentials, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr M wasnt complicit in the activity 
that took place.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr M was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to take any action in relation 
to the fraud marker. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has 
been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr M might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman