DRN-4222662
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial (Owl) mis-sold an 
income protection insurance policy to him. 
What happened
Mr C took out an income protection insurance policy through Owl in August 2020. The 
advised sale took place via video call and Owl recommended a policy which Mr C took out. 
In 2022, Mr C made a claim but the insurer declined the claim. So he contacted Owl to 
complain about the sale of the policy. He told Owl the policy had been cancelled as he 
hadnt been registered with a UK GP for two years at the time the policy was sold. 
Owl looked into the complaint but didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. However, it 
offered Mr C £400 compensation for the delay in dealing with his formal complaint.
Unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Owl had mis-sold the policy. And he thought the compensation 
offered for the delay in dealing with the complaint was reasonable.
Mr C disagreed and asked questions about a different policy hed taken through Owl at the 
same time and whether that was still active. 
An agreement couldnt be reached so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules say a seller should ensure the policy is suitable during an advised sale.
The sale took place via video call and a recording of that call isnt available. So Ive 
considered the documents available from the time of the sale. This includes a fact find and a 
summary of the advice and the recommendation made. 
This information confirms Mr Cs personal details, his income and budget. An insurance 
policy was recommended which confirmed that a cheaper policy was available but Mr C 
wasnt eligible because:
Customer ineligible3 years GP registration and UK stay.
During its complaint investigation, Owl explained it had spoken to the adviser involved in the 
sale who confirmed Mr C thought hed been registered with his GP for more than two years 
but not for three years. This is why the cheaper policy wasnt suitable and the policy which 
was recommended was based on Mr Cs belief that he had been registered with his GP for 2 
years. 
Having considered the above, I think its more likely than not that Mr C did tell the adviser 
hed been with his GP for 2 years. This is because the adviser couldnt recommend the 
cheaper policy due to the 3-year GP registration requirement. I think this would have 
prompted questions about how long Mr C had been registered with a GP if he hadnt been 
registered for 3 years.
So based on all of the above available information, I think the recommendation made by the 
adviser was suitable based on the information provided by Mr C and his needs. 
Owl also offered £400 compensation for the delay in dealing with Mr Cs complaint which I 
consider is reasonable taking into account the length of time it took to send its final 
response. If this hasnt already been paid and Mr C wishes to accept the offer, he should 
contact Owl to arrange payment.
In response to the investigators view, Mr C has asked about a different policy. I can see Mr 
C took two policies out at the same time through Owl but this decision is limited to the 
complaint about the income protection insurance policy. If Mr C has a complaint about the 
other policy Owl sold, that would need to be raised and considered separately.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman