DRN-2456040
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K contacted The Co-op in December 2018 to say that he didnt recognise three payments 
made using his debit card in October 2018. These werent refunded, and his account was 
closed. He later found that The Co-op had added the marker too and says that this is 
affecting his ability to get an account elsewhere. He complained about this in April 2020.
The Co-op said that the payments disputed were all to a gambling business and totalled 
£704.50. It had contacted that business which had provided evidence that the payments 
were authorised. And that these were made with an account Mr K had used for other 
genuine payments. So, The Co-op had declined the refund, decided that Mr K had made a 
fraudulent claim and added the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K had now said that his 
flatmate at the time must have made the transactions. That person he said had access not 
only to his device but also to his online banking and online gambling account. But Mr K 
hadnt mentioned this at the time he reported the fraud and during multiple calls with The Co-
op. He also had no evidence of this flatmate. And although Mr K had said that the 
arrangement had been that the flatmate paid him back for the gambling transactions he 
authorised there was no record of this on his bank statement. Even if as Mr K said a flatmate 
had been allowed to make some payments it was unclear why he would make these other 
ones behind Mr Ks back. It may be that he stopped paying and that Mr K had then tried to 
recoup his money. If that had been the case it was difficult to see why Mr K wouldnt have 
mentioned this. So, our investigator didnt accept Mr Ks account now as most likely and he 
decided that The Co-op had sufficient evidence to add the marker at CIFAS.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he had asked his 
flatmate at the time about the payments and trusted him. He didnt think that the flatmate had 
ever not asked his permission. He only more recently realised it must have been him when 
he found out that the IP address used for the transactions was the one linked to his property 
and devices. He had no evidence such as a tenancy agreement to prove his flatmate lived 
there as it was his mothers flat. He is happy to pay back any money to The Co-op and he 
apologised for the mismanagement of his account. The impact of not being able to have a 
bank account is significant and was because he trusted someone. He wanted the marker to 
be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this complaint. It 
has been shown that the disputed payments were authenticated using Mr Ks correct card 
details and security information. But I need to decide it he consented to them and so 
authorised them. 
I note from his bank statement that a number of significant payments were made from Mr Ks 
account to this gambling website. He had set up a genuine account in his name. He didnt 
dispute these other specific payments for nearly two months, and it is unclear why. As our 
investigator has said he didnt give any explanation about his flatmate having access to his 
account at the time he reported the fraud. I agree that this was highly material information 
even if he thought that this wasnt down to his flatmate.
He has no other evidence to support that he had a flatmate; that he allowed him to make 
genuine payments and pay him back; and that this flatmate made these specific payments. 
Even if that was all the case then as our investigator says the arrangement seemed to be to 
pay Mr K back later. So, taking all this into account I think it would be difficult to determine 
exactly what transactions were and werent allowed by Mr K and whether the dispute arose 
solely because he wasnt paid back as agreed. If this was the correct explanation then I think 
this would likely be a civil dispute with this individual especially as it would have involved    
Mr K allowing that person access to his security information and so consenting to him using 
his account.
But I dont find this to be the most likely explanation in any event. Thats because of the lack 
of evidence and that this explanation wasnt given at the time the fraud was reported. So, I 
conclude that Mr K most likely consented to and authorised the payments himself.
The bar for reporting to CIFAS is a high one. Ive looked at whether The Co-op was fair to 
apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS 
guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the 
standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that The Co-op needs to have 
enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for 
cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been 
committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence The Co-op has provided, Im 
satisfied that The Co-op had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr K made a claim for a refund of payments he had authorised.
- This claim wasnt a genuine one and was for his personal gain.
- The Co-op had grounds to believe that Mr K had tried to obtain money fraudulently 
based on the evidence it had and closed his account.
I appreciate that Mr K will be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require The Co-op to do anything further. If he doesnt accept my decision he 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman