DRN-3059933
Complaint
Mr D says that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) unfairly changed the overdraft charging 
structure on his account. Hes also unhappy at BOS decision to default his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. She eventually reached the conclusion 
that BOS hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts BOS charged Mr D over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. This includes whether the amount it 
increased the rate by was fair and it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at BOS charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his account 
unfairly. So Ive considered whether BOS applied these changes to Mr Ds account in a way 
that was fair and reasonable. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr D got in contact with BOS a number of times after the new charging 
structure was introduced. Mr D made BOS aware he was going to struggle to pay the 
increased charges. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its 
regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an 
understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move 
forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Mr D, BOS did initially consolidate Mr Ds overdraft into 
a loan and reduced the limit on this facility. I know that Mr D was able to successfully apply 
for and then increase his overdraft limit again. But as those matters have already been 
looked at as part of a separate complaint Mr D made to us, I offer no comment on these 
lending decisions here. 
Furthermore, once Mr D got into difficulty, its clear that BOS refunded fees and placed 
temporary freezes on further fees being added to the overdraft throughout 2019, in an 
attempt to give Mr D the chance to address what might have been short-term difficulties. So 
Im satisfied that BOS did exercise forbearance and due consideration and offered Mr D 
temporary short-term solutions in order to try and get through any difficulties he may have 
been having.
I know that Mr D has said he was misled by BOS during this process. But by March 2020, it 
was clear that the temporary measures taken clearly hadnt improved his situation and I 
dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue ignoring Mr Ds 
obvious and apparent difficulty repaying what he owed, or the fact that the overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have 
expected BOS to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking BOS to reinstate the overdraft here, even if there 
may have been some miscommunication, or remove the default, when it seems unlikely     
Mr D will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would arguably be 
counterproductive and not in Mr Ds interests or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for BOS to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Ds overdraft when it did and issue a 
correctly addressed formal demand notice, offering Mr D the opportunity bring his account 
up-to-date before it would take any action. As this is the case and Mr D didnt or wasnt able 
to take steps to comply with the correctly addressed formal demand for payment, Im 
satisfied that BOS was entitled to withdraw Mr Ds overdraft even though Mr D might have 
had an open complaint with us at this point. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman