DRN-2829053
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with the compensation offered by Tesco Underwriting Limited (TUL) for 
delays in fixing her windscreen.
What happened
On 3 December 2020, Miss Es windscreen was cracked and she called TULs out of hours 
line to raise a claim. On 4 December 2020, she was called back directly by a windscreen 
repair company and it put forward 15 December 2020 as its first available date for repair. 
Miss E arranged for it to complete the repair on 19 December 2020.
As a keyworker, Miss E needed to use her car during this time. As it wasnt safe to drive, she 
paid £60 to insure herself on a family members car. This caused a degree of inconvenience 
to her and her family; and she was unhappy with the timescale offered for the repair.
Miss E raised a complaint with TUL about the delays and the money shed paid to insure 
herself temporarily on another vehicle. TUL agreed to cover the £60 shed spent on 
alternative, temporary insurance. However it highlighted that Miss E had not contacted it and 
had dealt directly with the windscreen repair agent, so it hadnt had the opportunity to assist 
her further. It then agreed to offer her an additional £60 in compensation.
Miss E didnt accept the compensation. Through a representative she brought her complaint 
to our service. Our investigator thought the compensation awarded was fair, so didnt uphold 
her complaint. Miss E asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es representative has calculated what he considers the likely cost of car hire for each 
day her windscreen wasnt repaired, after the claim was reported. And hes suggested this 
amount as compensation. But our role isnt to punish a business; and that is not the purpose 
of compensation. I see no actual link between the amount it wouldve cost TUL to pay for a 
hire/courtesy car  if it had offered one  and the inconvenience Miss E was caused, so I will 
not be awarding a figure based on the representatives calculation.
I havent seen any evidence to show Miss E contacted TUL to inform it of the delays with the 
third party in processing her claim or to explain the impact this had due to her keyworker 
status. So I cant say it had the opportunity to change the situation at the time. And, I can 
see that Miss E didnt accept the soonest date for repair and instead a date four days later, 
on the weekend, was arranged. While I accept she was likely working in the week and so 
this may have been her first available date  I do have to factor this in when considering 
compensation. Not all of the delayed time was down to the third party and its availability  
and if someone is only available on a weekend this will likely increase the time taken to carry 
out required works.
I accept Miss E was caused inconvenience by the delayed availability of the windscreen 
repair company. TUL has taken some responsibility for this and in recognition has awarded 
£60. When considering a figure for compensation, our service looks at what, if any, mistake 
a business has made and then the level of distress or inconvenience this has caused. So, 
Miss E is not due compensation for the general inconvenience the damage to her 
windscreen has caused her  TUL has no responsibility for the event happening.
I appreciate being without a car wouldve been difficult for Miss E and that is why she made 
other arrangements. But technically, under her policy, she is not entitled to a hire/courtesy 
car while her windscreen is being repaired (Section D  Courtesy Car: What is not covered). 
So while TUL has said it wouldve looked to arrange this if shed called it, this was as a 
gesture of goodwill due to Miss Es keyworker status, not something she is entitled to.
Considering TULs responsibility here, I think £120 is a fair offer of compensation. As Miss E 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, Im satisfied that the £60 it has refunded her for the cost of 
her temporary insurance is part of the overall compensation. I accept that her windscreen 
repair shouldve ideally been completed sooner  but considering the repairer was 
experiencing staff shortages due to sickness (related to Covid-19) I cant say this was 
something wholly within TULs control. So I think the compensation offered is fair and Im not 
directing it to award Miss E any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman