DRN-2178079
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to a number of issues. 
First that having checked on the internet to see if a branch was open on a Saturday, she 
travelled there to find that it was closed. Secondly, that when she called NBS to make a 
money transfer they were unable to assist her. Thirdly that an adviser I shall call B, and her 
supervisor were unhelpful and unprofessional, and lastly that NBS complaints handler had 
failed to note an important fact when she replayed a recorded call.
What happened
Ms R did an internet search to see if a particular branch of NBS was open on a Saturday. 
Her search said that it was, but when she went to the branch she found it was closed. 
Ms R wanted to transfer some money to a third party and so rang NBS and was asked some 
security questions. NBS said that Ms R didnt pass through their security process, but Ms R 
thought she had. Ms R was unhappy and thought B was being unhelpful and so spoke to her 
supervisor S and lodged a complaint. She was also unhappy with S believing her to be 
unhelpful, argumentative and unprofessional. 
Ms R was also unhappy with the complaint handler she subsequently spoke to because 
when reviewing the original call Ms R made, she had failed to note that Ms R had in fact 
answered one of the security questions correctly.
NBS did not agree that B and S had been unhelpful and said Ms R had not passed the 
security questions put to her. As such they said that B had acted correctly and in line with 
their security procedure. They denied B and S had been unprofessional or unhelpful but 
accepted the complaints handler had missed a point in the call but had subsequently 
apologised when she had listened to the call again. 
Ms R was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong. Ms R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail, but 
Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether NBS acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I shall 
address each element of the complaint in order.
Attending the Branch
Ms R told this service that she googled to see when NBS branch was open and the result 
she obtained was that it was open on a Saturday. Ms R hasnt said which specific website 
she obtained this information from, nor has she said it was NBS site. Our investigator looked 
at the NBS website which stated that the branch was not in fact open on a Saturday. So, on 
a balance of probabilities, as the NBS website shows the correct opening times, it is likely 
that Ms R obtained information from a website which did not belong to NBS and which was 
inaccurate. In these circumstances I cant say that NBS have acted unfairly since they have 
no control over a third partys website, and their own website was accurate.
The Security Questions.
Ive listened to the recording of the call recording Ms R initially made to B. She began by 
stating she would like to make a transfer. B told her that We dont tend to do transfers over 
the phone, going on to ask her if she had internet banking or telephone banking. Ms R said 
she didnt to which B replied, Ok so I can have a look into it for you and then proceeded to 
ask Ms R a series of security questions, one of which was to ask Ms R to confirm the 
balance on her account. Unfortunately, Ms R was unable to accurately answer, which I can 
understand NBS view as a failure. 
A further question was put to Ms R, that being what her overdraft limit was. Ms R said she 
knew she had one but didnt know what it was and asked for another question. Again, I can 
understand that NBS would view that as a failure to answer the security question. There was 
then a pause, before Ms R gave a figure, which ultimately transpired to be correct. At that 
point B advised her that she had failed security and as a consequence she could not 
continue with her proposed transfer. 
The issue of security is very important to NBS and all its customers, which is why they have 
complex automated security systems in place. NBS have explained that because Ms R was 
unable to answer the security questions when asked, she failed to pass the process. It is 
therefore understandable, given the automated nature of the system, that there was nothing 
B could do to help Ms R once she was unable to give the answer because the system was 
preventing her from doing anything further. So, although I can accept it was very frustrating 
for Ms R I cant say NBS has acted unfairly. And, whilst I can see why Ms R feels she hasnt 
failed security, having considered both her account and NBS, and having listened to the call 
recording I am satisfied she did, when she was unable to tell B what her overdraft limit was 
when first asked.
Unhelpful Advisors
Ms R has complained that B and S were unhelpful, unprofessional and that S was being 
argumentative. She told S that B had point blank refused to do transfer for her. Having 
listened to the calls, I cant say that B was at all either impolite, unprofessional, or unhelpful. 
She certainly didnt point blank refuse to do the transfer. She did tell Ms R that NBS didnt 
tend to do transfers over the phone but she did not refuse to do it. In fact, she was helpful 
as I have described above by saying that she would look into it for her. It is correct that B 
ultimately told Ms R she had failed security. But, I am satisfied that all B was doing was 
inputting the answers she received from Ms R into the security program and relaying the 
results of what the system was telling her. And what the system showed B, was that as she 
had been unable to pass the security question about her balance, followed by not knowing 
what her overdraft limit was when first asked, that she had therefore failed the security 
process. So, I do not think B acted unfairly at all, and was simply reporting the outcome of 
the security process.I have also listened to the call with S. I found S was professional and tried to assist Ms R by 
explaining what the process was and why she had failed security. She was also helpful in 
offering to record her complaint for her, which she did. Although Ms R may have perceived 
that S was being argumentative I dont agree, as she responding to the questions Ms R put 
to her, with an explanation. S also advised Ms R that as she had failed security she could 
call back again and try to pass through security, but in relation to this particular call there 
was nothing further that could be done. That is evidence of S being helpful and not 
argumentative.
The Complaint Handler
When the complaint handler called Ms R to discuss the complaint she did say that she had 
not heard Ms R tell B the correct overdraft limit. She did however say that she would listen to 
the call again and call her back. She did that and conceded she had missed that part of the 
call, apologising for doing so. That was a reasonable and proportionate response I think.
So, in conclusion I do not think NBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. They were not 
at fault regarding the opening times of the branch, and as Ms R did fail to answer the 
security questions the system naturally recorded a failure. That was not the fault of B or S 
who both acted politely and professionally in trying to assist Ms R. NBS has accepted their 
complaint handler missed part of the call when she first listened to it, but she repeated the 
exercise and apologised, which I think is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman