DRN-3785512
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the actions of an agent when attending his property as part of 
QIC Europe Ltds consideration of an escape of water claim. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr L reported an escape of water from a bathroom which caused damage to his 
bungalow. Included in the damage was water damage to the bathroom flooring and a 
bedroom carpet next to the bathroom. Mr L said he told QIC he had dried the carpet out, 
having identified the source of the leak. 
QIC instructed a specialist drying team and an agent visited Mr Ls property. From the 
timeline of the reports provided by QIC, an agent assessed the condition of the carpet on 24 
May 2022. 
Mr L said the agent who inspected the carpet told him it was beyond economical repair and 
so he removed a large part of the carpet - and the cushion flooring from the bathroom. Mr L 
said he raised concerns about this action with the agent, but the agent assured him that the 
flooring replacement would be covered under his policy with QIC. So Mr L says it was on this 
basis he agreed for the removal of the carpet and cushion flooring to take place. 
On 27 May 2022 a Surveyor attended to consider Mr Ls claim for an escape of water and 
the associated damage to his bungalow. They reported that the cause of damage was 
gradual. This meant the damage was excluded from cover under the policy and so QIC 
declined Mr Ls claim. QIC said it wouldnt meet the costs to replace the flooring which had 
been partly removed. 
Mr L complained to QIC. He was disappointed with its decision to reject the escape of water 
claim, but he accepted it. However, he didnt agree it was fair for QIC to refuse to meet the 
costs to replace the bedroom carpet and bathroom cushion flooring. 
QIC didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it instructed a specialist drying team to attend first 
in order to mitigate the property from further damage. QIC said it was within the drying 
teams authority to remove items it determined as not restorable - and that they could do this 
irrespective of the outcome of the claim under the policy terms. 
QIC said moisture level readings were raised and photos of the carpet showed signs of 
mould. So it said the actions of the drying team specialist was correct, given the number of 
associated health issues with mould and the risk of further damage. QIC said the carpet was 
removed to allow the floor to dry.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was fair for 
QICs agent to remove a large part of Mr Ls carpet and cushion flooring before the decision 
to accept or reject the claim had been made. He believed Mr Ls account that he had been 
assured by the agent before authorising the removal of the damaged carpet and bathroom 
flooring that QIC would cover the costs to replace it. The Investigator could find no evidence 
of high moisture readings or mould from the reports and pictures provided by QIC. 
The Investigator recommended QIC to pay the full costs to replace the bedroom carpet and 
cushion flooring. He thought QIC should pay Mr L £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the agents actions in removing the flooring.
QIC didnt agree. Mr L didnt provide any comments on the Investigators view dated 5 
January 2023. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the drying agents report dated 24 May 2022, it reads:
(agent name inserted here) confirms that the property detailed below has been dried 
to pre-loss condition. This document confirms that moisture levels in the property 
detailed above have been returned to a satisfactory level and pre-loss condition 
(Subject to any information detailed in the Notes/exclusions section above).
I can find no reference to notes or exclusions about the moisture levels elsewhere in the 
report other than under the heading Description of warranty/pre-existing issues? This 
reads:
Small area giving elevated reading. This will dry naturally, assisted drying not 
needed.
Photos of the carpet were attached to the drying agents report - which QIC says show signs 
of mould. But I dont agree. I dont think the photos show signs of mould damage to the 
carpet. 
So from the information provided Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for the drying agent 
to have removed the flooring from the bathroom and bedroom. I think its more likely on 
balance that the drying agent made this decision believing QIC would meet the costs for 
replacement flooring. 
As the agent acted on behalf of QIC, I think a fair outcome is for QIC to meet the costs to 
replace the flooring that was removed. And I think Mr L has been caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience over and above what would be reasonably expected when 
dealing with a claim. The outcome of the drying agents actions means Mr L has been 
unnecessarily without adequate flooring in two rooms for a considerable period of time. 
So I think QIC should pay Mr L compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
Meet the costs to replace Mr Ls bathroom and bedroom flooring (including any 
appropriate underlay) which was removed by its drying agent. 
Pay Mr L £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman