DRN-3178737
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a life insurance policy that is now administered by
ReAssure Limited. She says that she was mis-led; that the policy wasnt suitable for her and
she was induced into buying it with incorrect information.
What happened
In March 2004, Mrs P started a life plan with American Life Insurance Company (ALICO).
This was to provide a cash sum in the event of death within the policy term.
The policy was made up of units and the number of units dictated the cover it provided.
Mrs P initially set up her policy to have four units at a cost of £14.95 a month. The policy also
provided that, if no claim had been made by the maturity date, then those premiums would
be returned to the policy holder. This would be after 22 years, so in 2026. The policy sum
assured was £3,947.
However, a month after the policy started and after paying one premium of £14.95, Mrs P
chose to increase the number of units to six. This increased her premium to £24.95 a month,
but also extended the maturity date of the plan by seven years  so to 2033. It meant that for
her age, her sum assured increased to £8,682.
In April 2019, Mrs P contacted ReAssure about the end date of her policy and the amount of
the return of premiums. ReAssure responded and said that her return of premiums would be
paid in March 2026 and this would £6,551.85. It also said that the plan would provide cover
until April 2033. This information was confirmed in letters dated 10 June 2019 and 14 June
2019.
However, in a letter dated 17 June 2019, ReAssure said that when Mrs Ps policy maturity
date had changed, the date for her return of premium date hadnt been extended as it should
have been. It said that it would amend the return of premium date to 2033, in line with the
policy maturity date, so she would get a return of the premiums shed paid then. The letter
asked Mrs P to let it know if this wasnt what she wanted.
Mrs P replied in February 2020 to say that wasnt acceptable and how it had described the
policy was not how it was sold to her. She complained that the policy had been mis-sold.
She felt that shed been induced into buying a life insurance policy she didnt need. She said
that her return of premiums and policy end date wasnt as portrayed, and shed lost the
ability to invest the money that shed spent in premiums. Mrs P asked for a refund of the
premiums and compensation for distress and inconvenience.
ReAssure said that the policy had been sold on a non-advice basis and the decision to take
it out had been Mrs Ps. It said that sales agents were required to adhere to a script to give a
customer a full summary of the policy, but they werent financial advisers. It was satisfied
that the terms and conditions of the policy were explained to her.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Following the investigators involvement,
ReAssure agreed that Mrs P had experienced a great deal of inconvenience through the
communications with its servicing department. The investigator suggested that it should pay
Mrs P £150 for this and it accepted this recommendation. ReAssure also said that it should
have acted when Mrs P declined the proposal it had made on 17 June 2019 to change the
return of premiums date to 2033. Because of this, it said it would honour the return of
premiums date of 2026, and after this Mrs P could continue to pay into the plan until 2033 to
maintain her cover, but no further refund would be made. Or it said she could receive the
return of premiums in 2026, and stop paying any further premiums, at which time her policy
and cover would lapse.
The investigator explained this offer to Mrs P and said that she thought it was fair. She
looked at the terms and conditions and agreed that the information about the policy end date
and return of premium Mrs P was given wasnt clear. She thought the offer of £150 and to
amend the date of the return of premiums was reasonable. The investigator clarified with
ReAssure that the premiums for the policy were originally taken in arrears, and that the
calculated return of premiums took this into account.
However the investigator didnt agree that Mrs P had received advice to start this policy as
she said that there wouldve been certain documents completed if the sale of the policy was
an advised one. The investigator acknowledged that ReAssure may have led Mrs P to think
her policy was taken out with advice when it said in its response letter Based on your
recorded circumstances and requirements, I am satisfied that the adviser made a suitable
recommendation for you to commence a Secure Life plan for a term of 29 years. But the
investigator said this was a mistake in that letter.
Mrs P responded and said, in summary, that the terms and conditions of the policy said that
the end date is such that the total premiums paid during the term is less than the sum
assured, and that mentioning the £14.95 was irrelevant as her original policy was for 22
years with a sum assured of £3,947. She said that the calculation of the premiums paid was
incorrect and the first payment due on her policy was before April 2004. Mrs P also said that
ReAssure could be taken over by another company so any policy in place could be invalid.
She said the mistake in the final response letter doesnt dismiss the circumstances of her
policy being mis-sold. Mrs P said that she still believed her policy was mis-sold and that
shed been convinced to increase her premiums to the maximum. She said there was no
evidence to support that it was a non-advised sale, and this is shown by the lack of
documentation. Mrs P asked about a copy of the sales script that wouldve been used at the
time.
The investigator said that, although she had been provided with an example of a sales script,
this wasnt for Mrs Ps type of policy.Mrs P asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She referred to a complaint made by her
husband, who took out a policy at the same time. Mrs P didnt feel that her complaint had
been dealt with fairly and impartially. She said she hadnt applied for the policy nor had she
filled in any forms. She asked for evidence that her demands and needs had been recorded
as well as her personal circumstances, as she felt the lack of this was evidence that her
policy had been mis-sold. Mrs P said that to be told that the policy was what she needed
counted as an advised sale. She said that her policy wasnt within the terms and conditions
and so it was mis-represented.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. 
I said that because of the circumstances in which this policy was taken out  following a 
telesales call from ALICO - I didnt think this was an advised sale. So I didnt think it was for 
ALICO to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs Ps needs. The purpose of the call was 
to give Mrs P sufficient details about the policy and the cover it provided for her to make an
informed choice about whether it was something she wanted and was right for her.
But I did think ReAssures response to Mrs Ps complaint dated 19 August 2020 gave
conflicting information that was likely to have added to the confusion. Although the letter 
referred to the sale being non-advised as a result of a telesales call, it then went on to refer 
to the policy being a suitable recommendation for Mrs Ps circumstances and requirements.
Although I couldnt be certain of what was discussed in that call, the situation in which the 
policy started didnt suggest an advice and recommendation service was provided, or that an
assessment of Mrs Ps needs and requirements was carried out.
I said I appreciated that ReAssure was been unable to provide us with a copy of the actual 
telesales script that ALICO would have used when speaking to customers about this policy. 
Because of the passing of time and changes between the businesses administering the 
policy, I didnt think this was unreasonable or unusual. However, I thought the background of 
how Mrs P described the policy being agreed following a phone conversation matched with 
the understanding of this telesales call.
From the information provided, I said I understood that, once it had been agreed, then the 
policy details and schedule were sent to Mrs P, and she would then have had the 
opportunity to read through these and had a period of time in which she could change her 
mind if she then believed it wasnt what she wanted. It was because of this that I didnt think 
the policy was mis-sold to her as I didnt think she was provided with advice or a 
recommendation on the suitability of this policy for her.
But I said there had been a number of issues with the administration of the policy and how 
its details had been communicated to her. And I could understand how this caused 
confusion and a misunderstanding of what her policy would provide.
I said this appeared to have related back to the changes made to the policy after the first 
months premium was paid. Mrs P paid one premium of £14.95 before increasing it to 
£24.95. The policy itself remained the same, but this alteration also extended the maturity 
date of the policy by seven years. The maturity date would be when the refund of premiums 
would be paid, so rather than this being in 2026 as it would initially have been, it changed to 
2033. But it seemed that ALICOs systems hadnt been updated with this detail when the 
policy was taken over by ReAssure in 2012. And, although I appreciated that the sum 
assured dictated the duration of the policy, I hadnt seen anything to suggest it was made 
clear to Mrs P what impact the premium increase was to have on the policy maturity date.I could see that in 2019 this was recognised by ReAssure, and it wrote to Mrs P to explain 
that although her maturity date had changed, her refund of premium date hadnt been 
extended. This was why it had told her it would be £6,551.85 she would get back in 2026. It 
said that it would amend the return of premium date to 2033 and Mrs P would need to 
continue to make her payments until then. The letter asked Mrs P to let it know if this wasnt 
what she wanted  which she didnt. But she wasnt then given any alternative options.
However, I was mindful that the terms of this policy were that the return of the premiums
would be paid at the policy end date, if all had been paid and no claim had been made on it.
So, whilst I appreciated the error in Mrs P being told that her refund of premiums would be
paid on 18 March 2026 rather than 28 April 2033, I didnt think this meant she should receive
the sum assured of £8,682 in 2026 as that would only have been achieved by her paying
premiums for the full 29-year period. 
But I did consider that the communication has caused significant confusion and 
misunderstanding about Mrs Ps policy; her cover and her return of premium benefit. It was
because of this that I thought ReAssure should increase the level of compensation to £250 
as I felt this more fairly reflected the conflicting information and the inconvenience
Mrs P had been caused.
I said I appreciated that there had also been some confusion over the return of premiums
amount, and I thought this added to Mrs Ps concerns about her policy.
Mrs P paid her first monthly premium based upon her original agreement, so this was 
£14.95. Her premium; cover and policy term then increased from the following month, so she 
then started paying £24.95 a month.
ReAssure told us that when the policy was migrated to it from ALICO, there was a change in 
the premium previously being taken in arrears. This caused a payment in July 2012 to be 
missed as the premium payment taken in July 2012 was allocated to pay June 2012, and the 
premium payment taken in August 2012 was allocated to pay August 2012.
So Mrs Ps policy end date had been extended by one month to allow the full number of
premiums to be paid.
But this extension wouldnt have applied for the 22-year policy, and a total of 263 premiums
would be paid (first premium April 2004 and last premium February 2026):
£14.95 + (262 x £24.95) = £6,551.85
And for the 29-year policy, 348 premiums would be paid (first premium April 2004 and last
premium March 2033):
£14.95 + (347 x £24.95) = £8,672.60
ReAssure has proposed three options to settle Mrs Ps complaint, and I thought these were
reasonable in the circumstances:
She could choose to receive a return of premiums of £6,551.85 on the original
maturity date of 18 March 2026. This represents the premiums paid to that date as
Ive set out. The policy would then lapse and no longer provide Mrs P with life cover;She could choose to receive a return of premiums of £6,551.85 on the original
maturity date of 18 March 2026. This represents the premiums paid to that date. The
policy and premium payments would then continue until April 2033 and provide Mrs P
with life cover until that date, at which time the policy would end with no further
refund of premiums being paid;
She could choose to continue with her policy, paying premiums until 28 April 2033 so
that her life cover would continue and, if no claim is made, she would receive a return
of premiums (£8,672.60) at that maturity date.
This is Mrs Ps policy, so I said it is for her to decide what she would like to do going forward. 
I said I was aware that she asked for a refund of premiums at this time along with 
compensation. But I didnt think this remedy would be fair, as I didnt consider the policy was 
mis-sold to her. I asked for Mrs P to confirm which option she intended to accept in response 
to my provisional decision. 
The responses
ReAssure responded to say that the plan had been sold to Mrs P on a non-advised telesales 
basis, and she wouldve been given all the details about the policy to make an informed 
decision to take it out. It said it hadnt been provided with the call script used for Mrs Ps type 
of plan when it took over the administration, but this wouldve been compliance checked and 
calls wouldve been quality checked. It said Mrs P wouldve been provided with a new policy 
schedule when she made the alteration to the number of units in it. It said it was prepared to 
increase the compensation for Mrs Ps inconvenience as Id recommended and said that it 
felt the options it had given her for her policy were fair. 
Mrs P responded to ask whether it was unlawful if you are sold an insurance policy which is 
not within the terms and conditions. She also said that there were facts that had been 
overlooked which she felt corroborated her complaint that her policy had been mis-sold. She 
said her demands and needs werent determined. She said she has never believed in life 
insurance and didnt know this type of policy existed, so she was mis-led into buying it and 
so it was an advised sale. She said she was against long term financial commitments and 
said the salesman had made it too good to be true. She said the increase in her premium 
confirmed that it had been mis-sold as it should have instigated a new policy with different 
terms. She said these terms werent clear and were mis-leading. She said her policy was in 
breach of the terms and conditions as the premiums paid were the same as the sum assured 
when the terms said the total premiums paid is always less than the sum assured. Mrs P 
also asked when ReAssure confirmed that it didnt have a copy of the sales script used and 
asked for a copy of a letter asking for the missed payment from July 2012.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed and considered all that Mrs P has said in response to my 
provisional decision. But it remains that I dont consider that she received advice and a 
recommendation to take out this policy. Both her own submissions and those of ReAssure 
suggest that the policy was taken out after a telesales call where Mrs P was given 
information about the policy and its costs; and it was for Mrs P to then decide whether to go 
ahead with it. Although I appreciate that Mrs P may believe that this, along with lack of record of her needs 
and circumstances being recorded or assessed, means that the policy was mis-sold, I think 
this more supports that those details werent taken from her as she wasnt being provided 
with specific advice about the suitability of this policy for her. Instead, it was more that she 
was given the details about the policy cover to make her own choice about it. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ps point that she doesnt believe in life insurance. But it remains that it 
was her decision to go ahead with this policy, and then increase her sum assured and 
premium. 
ReAssure has provided a letter addressed to Mrs P from the time her cover was amended 
and to confirm the new premium amount. This says I am writing with reference to your 
recent communication regarding the above mentioned policy. I can confirm that your cover 
has been amended to 6 units of cover. The new premium amount is now £24.95 with effect 
2/5/04. It refers to a revised schedule being enclosed, which I understand would have given 
her the details of the policy with this change.
Although this was a change to the original arrangement; I dont think that necessarily means 
that it shouldve meant that a whole new policy should have been set up, when the changes 
were to increase the number of units and the sum assured, and this was confirmed in the 
revised schedule.
ReAssures letter to Mrs P on 17 June 2019 refers to the missed premium in July 2012. It 
says:
When your policy was administered by Alico you were paying your premiums in arrears. 
When the administration of your policy was transferred to ReAssure you were no longer able 
to do this. To bring premiums in line, the premium collected on 2 August 2012 was allocated 
to your August 2012 premium; your July 2012 premium was unpaid. To ensure the missed 
premium is collected, the maturity date has been extended from 18 March 2033 to 28 April 
2033. Your last premium will collect on 2 March 2033.
So rather than a payment not being collected, it was allocated to the following month rather 
than the previous month due to the change from paying premiums in arrears, to paying 
premiums in advance. ReAssures actions here ensure the full premiums are met. 
However, if this change in administration hadnt happened, premium payments would have 
continued to be paid in arrears with the last premium being collected in February 2033. The 
first premium would have been collected in April 2004, which would be 347 months of 
premiums (347 x £24.95 = £8,657.65). So this would mean that the sum assured of £8,682 
would be more than the total paid in premiums. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it is unusual or unreasonable for the actual 
telesales script that was presented to Mrs P to no longer be available. ReAssure provided us 
with an example of a script for a different policy to give an understanding of the basis of such 
a call but was clear that this didnt relate to Mrs Ps type of policy.
I have acknowledged that ReAssures communications with Mrs P about her policy have 
caused confusion and misunderstanding. And I think ReAssure should pay Mrs P £250 to 
reflect the inconvenience this has caused her. 
In my provisional decision, I set out the three options ReAssure has given for Mrs P, and I 
think these represent a fair and reasonable resolution to her complaint. As Ive said, it is for 
Mrs P to decide which of these she would like to accept. I leave it now for Mrs P to contact 
ReAssure directly to confirm her wishes going forward.My final decision
My decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs P £250 for the upset and 
inconvenience shes been caused because of the conflicting information she was given 
about her policy, and should settle her complaint on the basis of which of the three options 
outlined above Mrs P decides to accept. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman