DRN-1991330
The complaint
Mr G and the estate of Ms G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not properly 
compensated them for the mis-sale of two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
In 2019 Mr G and the estate of Ms G complained to HSBC about the sale of two PPI 
policies.
One policy was attached to a credit card (ending 2131) in the name of Mr G.
The second PPI policy was attached to a joint loan (ending 2532) taken out by Mr G and   
Ms G.
In March 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr G via his representative. The letter explained that HSBC 
had agreed to uphold the complaints. The letter stated that loan ending 2532 was in joint 
names and our payment shows your clients 50% share of the redress.  
It went on to say HSBC was offering to pay Mr G a total of £3,585.79.
This consisted of £2,221.87 for the mis-sale of the credit card PPI, and £1,363.92 for the 
mis-sale of the PPI with the loan.
On the same day HSBC wrote separately to the estate of Ms G. In this letter HSBC 
explained it was upholding the complaint about the PPI with the loan (ending 2532) and was 
offering to pay her estate the sum of £1,363.92. This letter also explained that the loan was 
in joint names and this figure represented the estates 50% share of the redress.  
Our adjudicator thought HSBC had fairly compensated Mr G and the estate of Ms G. 
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Mr G believes that his payment of £3,585.79 
represented his 50% of the redress so the estate of Ms G should also have received 
£3,585.79.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at the way HSBC calculated the actual compensation due for both policies. 
And from what Ive seen it has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to. 
Ive next looked at how it split the compensation between Mr G and the estate of Ms G.
Ive looked at the redress for each PPI policy separately.
The credit card ending 2131
The credit card was taken out in Mr Gs name only. That means that any compensation for 
the mis-sale of the policy attached to the credit card needed to be paid to Mr G only. Ms Gs 
estate was not entitled to any compensation for the mis-sale of the credit card policy.
I can see that HSBC calculated the total compensation due for the mis-sale of the policy was 
£2,221.87. And I can see HSBC has paid the entirety of this amount to Mr G. So I think 
HSBC has fully compensated Mr G for the mis-sale of the credit card PPI.
The loan ending 2532
The loan ending 2532 was taken out in joint names. Although the PPI policy attached to the 
loan likely only covered Mr G it was taken out to protect the repayments on the joint loan 
taken with Ms G. And the premiums for the policy were included in the monthly loan 
repayments. That means any compensation due for the mis-sale of the policy needed to be 
shared equally between Mr G and the estate of Ms G.
I can see HSBC worked out the total compensation due for the mis-sale of the policy was 
£2,727.84. So it paid 50% (£1,363.92} to Mr G, and 50% (£1,363.92) to Ms Gs estate.
So Mr G received all the compensation for the mis-sale of the credit card PPI and half the 
compensation for the mis-sale of the loan PPI. While Ms Gs estate received half of the 
compensation for the mis-sale of the loan PPI. 
In summary HSBC has calculated the compensation for the mis-sold policies in the way Id 
expect it to. And Id expect HSBC to pay all the compensation for the mis-sold credit card 
PPI to Mr G, and split the compensation for the mis-sold loan PPI equally between Mr G and 
Ms Gs estate. It looks like HSBC has done this so I wont ask HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no further award against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and the 
estate of Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman