DRN-2330351
The complaint
Mr Cs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that
he was given unsuitable investment advice by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society
Limited (the business).
In short, the CMC says:
Mr C didnt want to take a risk with his savings.
More suitable products werent discussed with fees or surrender values.
The plans werent taken out with the intention of using them as life cover.
It wasnt discussed that only a portion of his investment would be invested.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in early October 2020 and explained why I thought this 
complaint couldnt be upheld.   
In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendations were unsuitable for Mr C.
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr C wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note Mr Cs objectives were to save regularly, retire early and to be secure at retirement. In
the circumstances, Im unable to say that the recommendation to invest in with-profits
endowment plans was unsuitable or didnt meet that objective.
I appreciate Mr C wasnt an experienced investor, however he wasnt without investment
experience either. I understand hes previously invested in endowment savings plans, so its
likely he had some understanding of how these policies operate. It may very well explain
why he was happy to take out a number of similar plans.
So, given his investment experience and previous tendency to keep his money on deposit, I
cant safely say that the recommendation to invest in nil or low risk investments was
unsuitable. I appreciate the CMC says more suitable recommendations werent considered
but Im only considering whether or not the endowment plans were suitable for him.
Im satisfied Mr C had the ability to invest, had access to enough money, and was also
young enough to make up for any losses if the worst-case scenario materialised.
Even after investing, Mr C still had access to a reasonable amount of money, which I
understand was enough to cover his expenditure over 26 years or so, leading him
comfortably to retirement whilst maintaining his investments.
Its possible that Mr C had other plans for this money or would do in future, thats why in this
instance I dont think the recommendation to take out several policies with different terms,
was unsuitable.
Im persuaded that it gave Mr C some flexibility to cancel a policy if he needed the money,
without having to cancel all his investments. The recommendations also meant that Mr C
would receive different maturity values  at different times  in the lead up to (and including)
his retirement.
I appreciate the point about the inclusion of life cover, but despite what the CMC says Im not
persuaded that in this instance it rendered the recommendations unsuitable. The inclusion of 
life cover with a savings plan doesnt inherently mean that a recommendation is unsuitable, 
although it can in some cases, so each complaint must be considered in light of its individual 
circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that these plans were recommended as life cover, and its not
what the business is saying. Rather that these plans were recommended as savings plans
with an element of life cover. I appreciate that in this instance Mr Cs priority wasnt life
cover, but despite what the CMC says Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was totally
against it.
I note that the investigator upheld the complaint on the basis that there was no need to have
more than the minimum amount of life cover. But Im unable to say that the cover was more
than what was necessary for the purposes of ensuring that these plans were qualifying 
which was likely to be an important factor given Mr C was saving for his retirement and
wouldve benefitted from receiving tax free lump sums. Im mindful the business confirms
that life cover was at a minimal and was only there for qualifying purposes and I have seen
no evidence to suggest this is wrong.
Even if that wasnt the case the business has pointed out that the level of the sums assured 
was in Mr Cs favour as he was guaranteed to get this amount on maturity. I note the 
business says for example in regard to the plan ending in 067, the single premium was 
£26,202 and the sum assured was £40,000. Mr C was therefore guaranteed to make a 
return of £13,798 over the 12-year term, providing he invested until maturity. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that at the point of sale this wouldnt be the case. I dont think the 
business couldve foreseen a new IFA advising Mr C to surrender his investments and invest
in a different product after a short time of investment.
I also note the business says that Mr C wouldve received 12 years-worth of annual
bonuses, plus a potential final bonus  which is the same principle for all the policies. In
other words, the higher the sum assured the higher the bonus.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Mr C was young enough for it not to have a significant
impact on his savings, despite the amount of life cover all the policies provided together. I
note the business says that Mr C was in his early 20s so any reduction in yield wouldve
been low and had minimum impact on his returns.
I also think that given his age it wasnt inconceivable that his circumstances might change in
future so that he/his family wouldve benefited additionally from having life cover. Whether ornot his circumstances did change isnt material, as there wasnt anything at the point of sale
to specifically to say that it wouldnt.
Im mindful that Mr C began to surrender these plans early on, following advice from a new
IFA, not because of his dissatisfaction with the plans. 
I appreciate Mr C will be very unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr C
what he wants.
The business responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
The CMC also responded and said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new submissions from the parties, my conclusion regarding 
the non-uphold of this complaint, remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendations were unsuitable for Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman