DRN-2711495
The complaint
 Mr M complains about the way his claim for repairs to be carried out under his motor 
insurance policy was dealt with by Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op Insurance 
(Co-op)). 
What happened
 Mr M was involved in a collision with another car in March 2020. The driver of the other 
vehicle accepted responsibility for the incident. 
After initial delays due to the Coronavirus lockdown, Co-ops approved repairer carried out 
repairs to Mr Ms car. But Mr M was dissatisfied with the standard of the repairs, and also 
complained that some damage to one of the doors hadnt been repaired at all.
Mr M returned the car to the garage, where further work was done to the parts of the car that 
had been included in the original repair. But Co-op explained to Mr M that its in-house 
engineer had looked at photos of the outstanding damage to the door, and didnt think it had 
been caused by the accident. So it wasnt willing to cover the cost of repairing that damage.
Mr M wasnt happy with Co-ops decision. He said that Co-ops approved repairer originally 
accepted that the damage to the door was a result of the accident, but changed its mind 
after he complained about the initial repairs.
Co-op offered to have the car inspected by an independent engineer. But the cost of doing 
so would be relatively high. And it told Mr M that if the independent engineer concluded that 
the damage to the door wasnt caused by the accident, it would require Mr M to cover the 
cost of the independent engineers report. Mr M explained that while he was confident that 
the damage was caused by the accident, he didnt want to take that risk.
After some discussion, Co-op said that if Mr M arranged his own independent inspection of 
the damage, it would cover the cost if it concluded that the damage was caused by the 
accident. But Mr M wasnt able to find a local engineer who was willing to do this.
Co-op paid Mr M £25 to apologise for poor communication with him. It also, separately, paid 
him £50 to apologise for the fact that Mr Ms car had to be returned to its approved repairer 
for further work after the initial repairs were carried out. It explained that £25 of that amount 
was for petrol, and £25 was to apologise for the inconvenience. But Mr M remained 
dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In summary, she thought that what Co-op 
had offered to do in terms of further engineers reports was fair and reasonable. But she 
thought Co-op should pay Mr M a further £50 to reflect the trouble and upset he was caused 
when the car had to be returned to the garage to finish the repairs.
Neither Mr M nor Co-op agreed with the investigators opinion, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mr Ms motor insurance policy, Co-ops only obliged to repair the damage caused in 
the accident. In this case, Co-ops engineer accepted that much of the damage to Mr Ms car 
had been caused by the accident. But there was an area of damage on one of the doors 
which the engineer considered was inconsistent with what had happened in the accident, 
and his view was that it must have been caused by something else.
It isnt my role to decide whether the contested damage was in fact caused by the accident. 
Instead, I need to decide whether Co-op dealt fairly and reasonably with Mr Ms claim. I can 
see from Co-ops internal records that the engineer explained his reasons for concluding that 
the outstanding damage to the door couldnt have been caused by the accident to Co-op. He 
also discussed the position with Mr M on the phone. 
I realise that Mr M disagrees with Co-ops engineers view, and is dissatisfied that he 
reached his conclusions having only looked at photos of the damage, without physically 
inspecting the car himself. But the photos gave a clear view of the damaged areas, and the 
engineer was confident in his view. And I think it was reasonable of Co-op to rely on what 
the engineer said. Its approved repairer also told Co-op that it didnt consider the contested 
damage to the door to have been caused by the accident. 
Co-op has offered to pay for a further independent engineers report  either arranged by it 
or by Mr M  if the further report were to conclude that the damage had, in fact, been caused 
by the accident. But Mr M hasnt been able to arrange for his own report, and is concerned 
about the risk of ending up having to pay for any further report arranged by Co-op.
I can understand Mr Ms reluctance to risk having to bear the cost of a further engineers 
report. But given that Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Co-op to rely on the report it 
already has, I dont find that I can fairly require it to do more than its already offered to do as 
far as obtaining and paying for a further engineers report is concerned.
Mr M lives some distance from Co-ops approved repairer. It didnt dispute that it hadnt 
carried out the repairs satisfactorily the first time round. Im aware that Co-op previously paid 
Mr M £50 to apologise for this. It explained that £25 of that amount was for petrol and £25 
was to apologise for the inconvenience. But like the investigator, I dont think £25 is enough 
to reflect the inconvenience Mr M experienced as a result of having to return the car to the 
garage. And I think the further £50 that the investigator said Co-op should pay Mr M is 
reasonable to reflect this. I acknowledge that Co-op has commented that it appears that 
Mr M accepted the £50 that it previously paid and agreed that this element of the complaint 
was resolved. But I havent seen anything to support this.
Mr M mentioned Co-ops poor communication when he brought his complaint to us. But Im 
not satisfied that it would be fair to require Co-op to pay Mr M more than the £25 it has 
already paid him in respect of this. Nor do I consider that it should compensate him for the 
fact that he initially had to pay a policy excess of £100 to the garage, as I consider that this 
was dealt with reasonably promptly once the issue came to light.
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. Im aware that he feels very strongly 
that the contested damage was caused by the accident. But for the reasons Ive set out, 
I dont find that I can fairly require Co-op to do more than Ive set out below to resolve his 
complaint.Finally, I note that in April 2021, while this complaint was waiting for an ombudsmans 
review, Mr Ms representative told us that shed recently taken the car to a bodywork repairer 
and was told that the original repair wasnt carried out correctly. Co-op hasnt had a chance 
to consider the comments of the bodywork repairer. So in the first instance, Mr M will need to 
raise this matter directly with Co-op, if he wants to.
Putting things right
To put things right, Soteria Insurance Limited should pay Mr M £50 in addition to the 
compensation its already paid him.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Soteria Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr M £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman