DRN-4016548
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Masthaven Bank Limited relating to 
his savings account.
What happened
Mr C contacted Masthaven to query how to change his password with it. He had attempted 
to do this online via the Masthaven website, but has stated that each attempt failed 
regardless of the password that he tried to use. Mr C said that, without him asking it to, 
Masthaven reset his password, sending him a new temporary one.
Mr C complained to Masthaven, highlighting three concerns. Firstly he stated that someone 
at Masthaven had rung him and asked for security details, which he said was an 
inappropriate practice in terms of basic security. Secondly, he said that his password was 
reset without him requesting this. Finally, he said the fact that he had already complained 
had been ignored.
Masthaven responded that the call from its representative was in line with its security policy. 
It pointed out that the representative had identified herself as a Masthaven employee and 
had offered Mr C the opportunity to call back using the number on Masthavens website. It 
also stated that it had not reset Mr Cs password without him requesting this. Masthaven 
explained that because it hadnt been able to assist Mr C over the phone, it sent him an 
email that explained how to reset his password, providing him with a temporary password, 
but did not automatically change it.
Masthaven agreed that it should have registered Mr Cs dissatisfaction as a complaint when 
he first expressed it. It offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C said that Masthavens response had misrepresented his complaint. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He noted that when the Masthaven 
representative rang Mr C, this was an attempt to ensure Mr C had access to his account 
prior to the business closing for the Christmas break. The investigator concluded that 
Masthaven had not reset Mr Cs password, but had issued an email that contained a 
temporary password that would expire in 24 hours. His view was that the offer of £50 made 
by Masthaven for failing to initially register a formal complaint was a fair one.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings. He stated that even if Masthavens 
description of the temporary password was accurate, he had not requested a temporary 
password, and it was not appropriate of the bank to do anything with his password. Mr C 
said that Masthaven had ignored his complaint and instead chosen to reset his password.
Mr C also reiterated the subject matter of his complaint. Firstly he said that Masthaven had 
reset his password without being asked to do so, and without authorisation. Secondly he 
said that in responding to his complaint, Masthaven had misrepresented the complaint.
Our investigator responded to Mr C, commenting that after hed raised a query about how to 
change his password, and had then declined to speak to the representative who called him, 
Masthaven sent an email with a temporary password, explaining how the password could be 
reset. Masthavens alternative was to take no action until after the Christmas break. The 
investigator reiterated Masthavens explanation that this did not automatically reset the 
password. Instead it offered guidance on how to change a password, whilst providing a 
temporary password that was valid for 24 hours. The investigators view was that Masthaven 
had acted reasonably in this regard, in response to Mr Cs request for assistance to change 
his password. He also stated it had acted fairly in attempting to resolve this matter before the 
Christmas break.
In terms of Mr Cs comments that Masthaven had misrepresented his complaint, the 
investigators view was that overall Masthaven had done nothing substantially wrong, and he 
did not recommend compensation.
Mr C responded to say that nowhere in Masthavens email to him headed Temporary 
Password was it made clear that this had not changed his existing password, and it did not 
say that this was in response to his query about how to change his password. Mr C said that 
the inference was that his old password no longer worked. In his view, if this did not 
represent a reset of his password, Masthaven should have made that clear.
Mr C has also highlighted the wording used by Masthaven in its complaint response to him 
where it stated: You feel it was inappropriate for us to send you an email containing a link to 
reset your password. He has pointed out that this email did not contain such a link. As such, 
Mr C has described the idea that a link was sent as a complete fiction invented by 
Masthaven whilst reinterpreting my original complaint.
As a result, he considers that Masthavens original investigation and response to his 
complaint was lacking. Mr C has clarified that he is not seeking compensation, but would like 
an apology from Masthaven for what he sees as a mishandling of his complaint. In the 
absence of an apology, he has requested that this case be passed to an ombudsman for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr C considers Masthaven handled matters surrounding his query about 
changing his password poorly. I acknowledge his comments that he is not seeking 
compensation, and that when he initially brought his complaint to this service, he asked that 
Masthaven apologise.
With regard to Masthavens actions at this time, the first aspect of these which Mr C was 
unhappy with related to the representative who rang him and asked him for security details. I 
understand why Mr C felt he should act with caution when the representative rang. However, 
Masthaven has explained that it chose to call Mr C because this was shortly before the 
Christmas break and it wanted to attempt to resolve matters before its offices shut for 
several days. In my view it was reasonable of Masthaven to attempt to call Mr C to assist 
him, and for the representative to ask the security questions that she did. I note the 
representative also offered Mr C the option to call Masthaven back on the number on its 
website, and I consider this was a reasonable proposal for the representative to make.
Key to Mr Cs dissatisfaction is the content of the email sent to him on 23 December 2022 
entitled Temporary Password. Masthaven has said that when it sent this email, it had not reset Mr Cs password. Instead, this email gave Mr C a temporary password he could use to 
gain access to his account, following which he could change his password.
Mr C has highlighted that this email did not say that Masthaven had not changed his 
password. Neither did it say that the email had been sent by Masthaven in response to his 
query about how to change his password. He says the inference was that his old password 
would no longer work. I would agree that Masthavens email on 23 December could have 
been clearer in this regard. However, taking into account that Masthaven was attempting at 
this time to assist Mr C to change his password, overall my view is that this email was a 
reasonable way of communicating with him about this.
The final element of Mr Cs complaint relates to Masthavens formal response to him about 
his complaint. He states that Masthaven misrepresented his complaint. In particular, he has 
highlighted Masthavens summary of his dissatisfaction being that it was inappropriate for 
the bank to send him an email containing a link to reset his password. As Mr C says, 
Masthavens 23 December email contained no such link.
I should explain that a complaint purely about the complaint handling of a firm is not a 
complaint about a financial service, and so would not fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service. However, I can consider a complaint where the subject matter is about an 
underlying financial service. Here Mr C is unhappy that Masthavens summary of his 
complaint referred to a password reset link that in fact was not sent to him. Issues relating to 
whether or not a password reset link was sent to Mr C would constitute a complaint relating 
to a financial service. A complaint that related solely to an allegation that a firm had 
misrepresented a consumers complaint when replying to it would not be something this 
service has the power to consider, as it would relate to the complaint handling of a firm.
With that said, I have considered in general the actions Masthaven took when dealing with 
Mr Cs request to assist him to change his password. As Ive explained, my view is that 
some of the communications Masthaven sent Mr C could have made matters clearer. And I 
note Mr Cs comments that he was caused distress by Masthavens actions. He has asked 
that Masthaven apologise to him. Although I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
him, on balance I do not consider Masthaven should be required to apologise to Mr C. Whilst 
I accept that it would have been preferable for its email of 23 December to confirm that Mr 
Cs password had not been reset, my view is that overall Masthaven handled Mr Cs query in 
a reasonable way. I understand Masthaven paid its £50 gesture of goodwill directly into a 
account held by Mr C. My conclusion is that Masthaven should not be required to take any 
further actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman