DRN-3731278
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car he was supplied with under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 13 August 2021, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle. He paid a deposit of £400, and the agreement was for £20,175 over 60 months; 
with an initial payment of £545.97, 58 monthly repayments of £495.97, and a final payment 
of £545.97. At the time, the car was almost three and a half years old and had done 41,542 
miles.
In January 2022 Mr S said that he started to experience transmission problems and that he 
was quoted £4,300 to fix the car. It was around this time that Mr S also lost his job and went 
into arrears with Oodle. As a result of this the account was defaulted in May 2022, and the 
agreement terminated in June 2022. Oodle then collected the car.
Mr S complained to Oodle, saying that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him. And he wanted to reject the car. Oodle didnt agree, and they thought the 
repairs were Mr Ss responsibility. Mr S wasnt happy with Oodles response, and he brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said there was an independent report that confirmed there was a fault with 
the car. But Mr S had been able to drive the car for around 10,000 miles before the problems 
started. And the independent report said that problems like this were to be expected with the 
car at around 50,000 miles.
Because of this, the investigator said that, had the car been faulty when it was supplied, it 
was likely the fault wouldve happened sooner. So he thought that the fault was most likely a 
result of wear and tear, and that Oodle didnt need to do anything to resolve the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. And he asked for 50 days to respond to the view  30 
days to request a copy of his personal data from Oodle, and a further 20 days to process [it] 
and find compelling evidence of Oodles wrongdoing.
The investigator explained to Mr S why he thought that this request was unreasonable, and 
why such a protracted extension wasnt possible. Despite this, Ive noted that the 
investigators view was sent to Mr S more than 50 days ago (the period of time he said hed 
need to respond); and also that Mr S brought his complaint to us in May 2022. So, Im 
satisfied that hes had five months in which to provide any evidence and comments to 
support his complaint. As such, Im also satisfied that its now reasonable for me to make a 
final decision in this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Oodle 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Oodle can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr S to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Oodle to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 14 January 2022, from a garage local to Mr S. This says 
that after diagnostics and external inspection of the gearbox, I can find that there is no 
mechanical damage to the gearbox, leaks from it, caused by an unusual driving style, etc. In 
my opinion, the main reason for the malfunction of this part is that these gearboxes are 
made of poor quality components which drastically shorten their lives. The invoice also 
confirms that the car had done 50,085 miles  8,543 more than when it was supplied.
The car was inspected by an independent engineer on 31 January 2022, when it had done 
51,711 miles  1,626 miles since Mr S had first had the gearbox looked at, around two 
weeks earlier. This report said there were fault codes relating to the gearbox, and that the 
car could only be driven in first gear. Which render this vehicle unfit to drive. 
However, the engineer also said that there was no evidence presented at the time of our 
inspection that would suggest there was an underlying condition with the transmission at the 
point of purchase. Furthermore the issue would have been apparent even to a layperson 
with no mechanical knowledge. We believe this has failed due to normal, in-service usage. 
In this model of vehicle, replacing the transmission at 50,000 miles would not be considered 
unusual, and the repairs would be classed as routine maintenance, the costs of which the 
owner would be liable for, given that the vehicle has covered over 10,000 miles since point 
of sale.
The engineer also confirmed that their duty is to the courts, and not to the person who 
commissioned the report and/or paid for it. Given this, Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on 
this report.Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a fault with the transmission which both the 
garage who originally inspected the car, and the independent engineer, agreed was because 
it has come to the end of its natural life i.e. it failed due to wear and tear at the point it could 
be reasonably expected to fail.
Whats more, the independent engineer confirmed that, had the transmission already failed 
when the car was supplied to Mr S, this wouldve been obvious, even to someone with no 
mechanical knowledge. Its not disputed that Mr S was able to drive around 8,500 miles 
before he started noticing problems with the car, and around 10,000 miles before the 
transmission failed and the car became undrivable. Had the transmission failure been 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S, Im satisfied that he wouldnt have 
been able to do this amount of mileage before any faults became evident.
Furthermore, Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to show that the transmission fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to him. As such, and while I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not satisfied the car was of an unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. And I wont be asking Oodle to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman