DRN-3116786
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received when taking out a motor insurance 
policy with Insurance Factory Ltd trading as Lancaster Insurance Services (Insurance 
Factory), and the amount he has been asked to pay following the policy being cancelled.
What happened
Mr S applied for a motor insurance policy with Insurance Factory through a comparison 
website on 13 May 2021.
Insurance Factory asked for proof of Mr Ss No Claims Bonus (NCB) and he sent this to 
Insurance Factory the following day.
On 20 May 2021 Insurance Factory wrote to Mr S explaining it was unable to accept his 
proof of NCB as it was being used on another vehicle and could only be used on one vehicle 
at a time.
Mr S responded to Insurance Factory asking for its advice on what he should do, and that if 
it was a problem, that Insurance Factory should cancel the policy and he would seek 
alternative cover.
On 25 May 2021 Insurance Factory wrote to Mr S explaining he could send through other 
proof of an alternative NCB he could use, or it could look to remove the NCB from the policy. 
Insurance Factory also directed Mr S to look through his documents for the charges that 
would apply if the policy was cancelled.
Mr S asked if the policy could be adjusted five days later when the NCB could be used.
On 28 May 2021 Insurance Factory responded to Mr S giving information on the refund he 
would receive if the policy was cancelled, and how much extra he would need to pay if the 
NCB was removed.
Mr S paid a total of £95.48 for the insurance policy. This consisted of £60.48 for the 
insurance premium and a £70 arrangement fee, less £35 discount.
When the policy was cancelled on 11 June 2021 Mr Ss refund was calculated. Mr S was 
charged £16.80 for the time he was covered by the policy and a pro-rata amount of the 
arrangement fee, totalling £86.80. Mr S was therefore issued a refund of £11.36.
Mr S was not charged a cancellation fee that would normally be £50 if the policy was 
cancelled after 14 days and £20 if it was cancelled before. Mr S would still have been 
required to pay for the time he was insured and the arrangement fee whether the policy was 
cancelled before or after the 14-day period. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and said that even if the policy was cancelled 
within the 14-day period Mr S would still have been required to pay more than he had been 
charged. So, he didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S disagreed, he didnt think Insurance Factory had been clear in their correspondence 
and explained the policy was supposed to have been set up in his wifes name from the 
outset.
As Mr S didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will look at Mr Ss complaint to see if he has been treated fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the insurance policy he agreed to.
Mr S applied for his insurance policy through a comparison website. I can see that he has 
told us that at some point during the setup of the policy the information about who was the 
main driver on the policy has been mixed up. The policy should have been setup with Mr Ss 
wife as the main driver.
I have thought about this but can see that Insurance Factory contacted the comparison 
website for details of what was entered at the time the quote was arranged. It has confirmed 
that although Mr Ss wife was also on the policy, it was Mr S that was entered as the main 
driver.
I am satisfied that the quotes were arranged with Mr Ss details being entered as the main 
driver.
I have also considered the correspondence between Mr S and Insurance Factory. I think the 
correspondence between both parties were clear. Mr S was aware early on that his NCB 
could not be used on two policies at the same time. This was made clear both before and 
after the policy was taken out.
The screen Mr S would have seen when he applied for the policy stated the following:
Please bear in mind that you can only use your no claims discount on one car or
insurance policy at a time.
As Mr Ss NCB was being used on another policy, I think he would have been aware he 
could not use it on the policy he was taking out with Insurance Factory.
Its clear from the correspondence that Mr S was aware of his options to either remove the 
NCB from the policy he had set up with Insurance Factory, or to cancel it. Insurance Factory 
had also directed it to the charges that would be made if the policy was cancelled. This 
information was sent to Mr S within the 14-day cooling off period.
If Mr S wanted to continue with the policy, I think it would be fair for Insurance Factory to 
charge him an additional premium. From what I have seen, Mr S setup the policy saying he 
had an NCB he was not entitled to use. But its clear Mr S decided not to continue with the 
insurance. I will therefore look at if Mr S has been charged fairly.
Insurance Factorys Terms of Business Agreement state that a £70 non refundable 
arrangement fee is payable when taking out the policy regardless of when the policy is 
cancelled.The document also states that a £20 cancellation fee is due if the policy is cancelled within 
14 days, and £50 if cancelled later.
I think the document is clear about what charges would be applied if the policy was 
cancelled.
Mr S paid a total of £86.80 and says if the communication from Insurance Factory was 
clearer then he would have been refunded a higher amount overall.
But I dont think this is correct.
According to Insurance Factorys Terms of Business agreement it was entitled to charge Mr 
S a £70 arrangement fee plus a cancellation fee of either £20 if the policy was cancelled 
within 14 days, or £50 if the policy was cancelled later. Therefore, the minimum Mr S would 
be charged by Insurance Factory was £90, this is without including the insurers charges for 
the time Mr S was insured.
As Insurance Factory waived the cancellation fee all together Mr S paid less than Insurance 
Factory was entitled to charge even if his policy was cancelled much earlier.
Overall, I cant see that Mr S has lost out financially due to Insurance Factorys actions.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman