DRN-2946529
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Allen Ford (UK) Limited trading as SMC Ford (SMC) declined a 
claim on his extended motor warranty policy.
What happened
Mr D bought a vehicle in November 2018, with a three-year warranty. In August 2020 the 
vehicle broke down. Upon recovery and inspection, it was deemed the clutch had broken up 
due to overheating, which the garage said was caused by the clutch being slipped. The 
garage replaced the clutch, slave cylinder and flywheel and submitted a claim to SMC. But 
the claim was declined because there was evidence of burning on all the gearbox 
components. SMC said the heat spots on the clutch and flywheel, along with the cracks on 
the pressure plate were evidence of misuse which is excluded under the policy.
But Mr D doesnt agree. He said it is unheard of for a clutch to fail at such low mileage and 
said that he himself had hardly driven the vehicle since it had been purchased. Mr D says he 
has many years driving experience, and hes never experienced anything like this before. 
So, he submitted a complaint to our service. 
An investigator from our service looked at his complaint. The investigator was satisfied that 
SMC had made a fair decision. 
But Mr D doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds warranty says, whilst you have a high level of warranty cover available, there are 
certain items which this warranty specifically does not cover and this includes, but is not 
limited to, renewal of any clutch components due to wear and tear, incorrect adjustment or 
misuse.
When Mr D brought his vehicle in for repair, SMC dropped the gearbox, removed the clutch 
and pressure plate and made a video of what it found. Ive looked at this video and I can see 
that there is evidence of excessive heat and the clutch plate is broken up. There are very 
clear cracks on the pressure plate, deemed to be caused by excessive heat. Internally, the 
clutch slave cylinder has overextended because of the heat, and the inside of the gearbox is 
charred due to the heat and needed cleaning. The flywheel has numerous hotspots, again, 
due to excessive heat and this also needed replacing. 
SMC has looked at the mileage on this vehicle and at the mileage Mr D has travelled and its 
concluded that this clutch has failed long before it should. SMC says the clutch was being 
slipped. This is when a clutch is disengaging, and no power is being delivered to the 
wheels in order to drive or propel the vehicle forward. This is usually down to wear or age 
and is not uncommon in older vehicles. But Mr Ds vehicle was relatively new with very low 
mileage. 
So why was it slipping? SMC has pointed to the overheating in the gearbox and said that 
Mr D isnt engaging the clutch correctly, and this has caused it to fail prematurely and, in this 
case, break up.
But Mr D says hes been driving for 50 years. And in that time hes said hes only ever had a 
handful of replacement clutches. Hes provided his driving history over that 50 years and he 
says hes only ever driven Ford vehicles. He says he always buys new vehicles, and this is 
the first time hes bought a second-hand one. He says he has no knowledge of the previous 
driver of the vehicle and he doesnt believe this level of damage couldve occurred in the 
short space of time he had the vehicle.
But looking at the evidence I think its more likely than not that this damage was caused 
whilst Mr D had the vehicle. The clutch that was removed was so broken up that it was 
inoperable, and its highly improbable that the clutch wouldve been like this when Mr D 
bought the vehicle. Its also more likely than not, given the lifespan of the average clutch, 
that this damage was caused prematurely. And looking at the charred gearbox, the hot spots 
on the fly wheel and the cracks on the pressure plate, its more likely than not that this 
damage was caused by overheating and likely this was caused by the way Mr D was using 
his clutch pedal to engage the clutch.
This is further supported by the fact that since this clutch has been replaced, the new 
replacement clutch has now also failed after a further 300 or so miles. Weve spoken to the 
garage and it told us that it has replaced this new clutch at no cost to Mr D as a gesture of 
goodwill. The report accompanying this new clutch replacement says that the friction plate 
was 90% worn, and based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle has 
suffered from poor driver technique resulting in advance stages of clutch wear. Because of 
this and all the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that SMC has applied the exclusion 
in its terms and conditions correctly and it was fair to decline the claim. 
I appreciate that Mr D will be very unhappy with this outcome. Ive listened to the calls hes 
had with our service and its clear hes passionate about this complaint and he feels hes 
been wronged. But its very hard to look past the actual visual evidence thats been provided. 
Clutches are a serviceable item, but theyre made to last a lot longer than the ones in Mr Ds 
vehicle. And based on this and what Ive seen and heard, I think the business has fairly 
declined this claim and I wont be asking it to do any more.
Mr D has also raised a concern about a replacement vehicle. He says SMC never provided 
him with a replacement vehicle during the repairs, whilst SMC says it did. Mr D is adamant 
about this and hes mentioned it a number of times in his calls with this service. 
The policy says, If your vehicle requires repairs which are covered by this warranty you may 
claim for a replacement hire vehicle (UK only). So, I can see given the circumstances of this 
specific case, Mr D was never due to receive a replacement vehicle, as the claim wasnt 
deemed to be valid. 
Mr D is adamant he never received a replacement vehicle during the time the vehicle was 
being repaired. But SMC has provided a form which would indicate that Mr D was loaned a 
Ford Fiesta on 6 August 2020, which was then taken back on 18 August 2020. These dates 
correspond with the investigation dates of 11 August 2020 and the final invoice date which is 
dated 18 August 2020. SMC has advised that it didnt provide a replacement vehicle when 
the second clutch failed. From what Ive seen and heard I can see that Mr D completely refutes this and says he 
didnt receive a replacement vehicle during this time. But the evidence would suggest that he 
did. I agree that he didnt receive a replacement vehicle the second time the clutch failed, but 
this occurred after this complaint came to our service and is not part of this specific 
complaint. And I do note that this clutch was being replaced as a gesture of goodwill, and not 
under the terms of the policy.
So, in short, Im satisfied theres evidence to show that Mr D did receive a replacement 
vehicle during the time the first clutch was being replaced, even though this is outside the 
cover provided by the policy. And as such I wont be asking SMC to do anything more in 
relation to this point.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman