DRN-4336585
The complaint
Mrs D complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for her car 
following an accident which led to it being written off.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mrs D insured her car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. In June 2023, Mrs Ds 
car was unfortunately involved in a car accident. Admiral subsequently deemed the car to be 
a total loss and offered £15,100 to settle the claim, less any deductibles such as Mrs Ds 
excess.
Mrs D wasnt happy, so she complained about the valuation. Admiral didnt change its 
decision and said the top book valuation across the two guides it had checked is £15,100.  
Mrs D brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. she said she cant 
replace her vehicle like for like with the amount Admiral has offered. And the adverts she 
found online for similar vehicles were for considerably more (£18,500 - £18,798). 
An Investigator at this service looked into matters and, ultimately, issued a view that Admiral 
needed to pay more to Mrs D. This is because they ran their own valuations using the motor 
trade guides which gave four valuations and the average of them came to more than 
Admirals offer to Mrs D. Admiral didnt agree with the Investigators method of calculating a 
fair value. However, it did agree to the principle of paying an average of the four guides, 
subject to evidence. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must explain Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
It is my role is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think it has. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mrs Ds policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it originally determined to be £15,100. Admiral referred to two trade guides to obtain a 
value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. It then made an offer 
to Mrs D below both of those guides.
We use the same trade guides  in addition to two others - to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. In the absence of other evidence, we may 
find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value as their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
The four motor trade guides obtained recently by this service are for cars of the same make, 
model, age and mileage as Mrs Ds at the date of loss. These gave valuation figures of 
£15,870, £15,250, £16,343 and £15,736. Ive also seen adverts for cars of the same age, 
model, features and similar mileage to Mrs Ds both online as well as from one of the motor 
trade guides which are in the region of £15,599, £15,850, £15,895 and £17,244. 
In light of this, I dont consider Admiral has demonstrated it has acted fairly in reaching the 
value it has. I say this because Im more persuaded an average of the four guides 
(£15,799.75) is a fairer reflection of market value than the offer made by Admiral. I also 
consider this to be more comparable with the price of similar vehicles on sale at the moment.
In summary, Im not satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mrs Ds car was fair 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. It now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay Mrs D the difference between what it valued her car at (£15,100) and the 
market value of £15,799.75. It also needs to add 8% simple interest payable one month from 
the date the claim was made up to the date of actual payment (making an appropriate 
reduction for any interim payments made, on the date they were made).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to do the things set out above to put things right. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject 
my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman