DRN-2588954
The complaint
  Mr D complains that Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD t/a Transact didnt provide the 
information it shouldve done when it was instructed to transfer his late wifes portfolio to him, 
so instead of getting the benefit of her ISA transferred to his ISA the proceeds were instead 
transferred into his General Investment Account (GIA).
What happened
 In 2017 Mrs D sadly died and Mr D1 was appointed as the executor of her estate. He 
contacted Transact to transfer her portfolio to Mr D, including her ISA. Transact received the 
instruction to transfer Mrs Ds portfolio to Mr D on 7 December 2017 and it was then 
transferred on 14 December 2017. But the proceeds of Mrs Ds ISA was paid into Mr Ds 
GIA account when he wanted this to be in his ISA.
He complained to Transact but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it received a clear 
instruction to transfer Mrs Ds portfolio into Mr Ds portfolio and this didnt specify that assets 
should be placed into particular wrappers. It said as an execution only platform it is designed 
to deal with financial advisers and expects that any financial decisions have been discussed 
with the adviser.
Transact also pointed out that on 14 December 2017 it had written to Mr D (and his IFA) to 
confirm the transfer had completed with cash being paid into his GIA. It said it had also sent 
him an annual statement on 5 May 2018 and a quarterly statement on 27 July 2018 both of 
which provided details of his portfolio and showed the funds from Mrs Ds portfolio had been 
transferred into his GIA.
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following key findings:
When Mrs D passed away in 2017 her ISA immediately came to an end, but the rules 
allowed for Mr D to increase his own ISA subscription allowance by the value of Mrs 
Ds ISA  the Additional Permitted Subscription (APS).
To benefit from this certain information is required, including declarations seen in the 
APS form Transact use - which form was appropriate for it to use in the 
circumstances.
Mrs Ds IFA confirmed to Transact he would be acting for the estate and asked to be 
copied into correspondence with the executors.
Transact wrote to the IFA on 29 September 2017 with certain information although 
the letter is a copy of the one sent to the executor on 22 September 2017. The only 
enclosure referred to in both letters was the portfolio valuation.
Transact has referred to another document it says was sent to the IFA, a matrix 
showing what documents were needed for each type of account, and an APS form is 
shown as being needed for the ISA account.
There is no evidence to show the matrix document was sent to the IFA.
The body of the letter has a heading Documentation Required which doesnt 
mention the APS form or suggest other documents might be needed. In the 
circumstances the letter sent to Mr D1 was misleading.
The IFA asked to be copied into documentation with the executors which indicated 
he expected Transact to communicate with the executors. It also didnt receive any 
instruction or communication from the IFA.
If Transact hadnt written to the executor on 22 September 2017 I might have come 
to a different conclusion in this complaint but, having written to the executor it should 
have made clear that other documents might be needed beyond what was specified 
in the letter.
It only gave the executor partial information and it isnt enough for it to say its 
expectation was that the IFA would discuss what was needed.
However, Mr D had 180 days after beneficial ownership passes  in this case 14 
December 2017 - to take advantage of the APS.
Mr D received statements within that period showing his ISA account hadnt 
increased so arguably he bears some responsibility for not benefitting from the APS.
However, to what extent either party is responsible for Mr D not benefitting from the 
APS isnt a significant issue/ This is because he transferred his GIA to Mr D1 in 2019 
so any additional tax he has had to pay is limited to around two years. And 
considering the annual dividend allowance Im not satisfied he paid any additional tax 
as a result of the stocks being in his GIA rather than ISA.
Transact should pay Mr D £200 for not providing clear information about what was 
required for him to benefit from Mrs Ds ISA subscription.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Mr D made the following points:
When the request to transfer was made one would expect an ISA to be transferred 
into another ISA given the benefits of ISAs.
Why did Transact communicate with the IFA who wasnt the one to contact it. It 
should have sent the necessary documents to the executor or advised him that only 
the IFA could give instructions.
As no APS form was provided how was Transact able to go ahead with the transfer 
into the GIA.
He accepts he should have noticed things hadnt been done properly but this was an 
unsettling time for the family and him having lost his wife of 65 years.
My award for distress and inconvenience seems to ignore the loss of non-taxable 
profit which may have accrued from the ISAs since the death of Mrs D.
The transfer to Mr D1 has no bearing on this business.

Transact also responded and, in summary, made the following points:
The IFA confirmed he was acting on behalf of the estate and the status on the 
deceaseds portfolio remained as advised.
Its normal procedure didnt include sending the matrix to the executor.
Its attached screenshot of the outgoing correspondence clearly shows five 
documents were sent to the IFA including the matrix.
Often executors arent clients of Transact and will be unfamiliar with the Transact 
product/documents and it believes the matrix document would cause confusion. If it 
was included with the initial correspondence without explanation. The Matrix is 
intended for IFAs to advise the executor.
As explained in its terms and conditions, when it is notified of death it will write to the 
adviser and representative to explain what instructions it will and will not accept 
relating to the frozen portfolio.
Its letter to the executor is a generic letter and isnt intended to deal with the specific 
requirements relating to the proceeds of the portfolio.The investigator viewed the email from the adviser and concluded it was reasonable 
for it to assume that any action taken by the estate was as advised by the adviser.
At the time it received the instruction from the executor the adviser was receiving 
fees from both Mr Ds and Mrs Ds portfolios.
It wasnt made aware at any points that the instructions it received from the executor 
were on an execution only basis and it was reasonable for it to assume the portfolio 
was being operated on an advised basis.
The IFA did contact it again in February 2018 and made clear he needed to contact 
Mr D and reasonable to assume he would have done so, and this would have given 
the opportunity of transferring the proceeds from his GIA into his ISA.
It provided enough information to the executor to enable him to obtain the relevant 
documents whilst the portfolio was frozen, until receipt of probate.
It is willing to pay £200 as a gesture of goodwill but it maintains it followed its 
procedure and provided clear information to the relevant parties and there were no 
errors in carrying out the executors instructions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having considered everything, including the responses from both parties, I am not 
persuaded I should change my provisional decision.
Mr D has said that he would expect Mrs Ds ISA to transfer to his ISA given the benefits of 
ISAs. But there may be reasons why a decision is made not to keep the benefit of a 
deceaseds ISA. The money might be needed for some reason and it is not appropriate for 
Transact to assume that it will always be the case that a surviving partner will want to take 
advantage of the APS.
Mr D has queried why Transact contacted the adviser, but I dont think it was wrong to do so 
given Mrs Ds portfolio was an advised portfolio. He has also asked how the transfer into his 
GIA happened given Transact hadnt been provided with a completed APS form. The 
answer to this is that the APS is about an additional subscription to an ISA and wasnt 
required to transfer what was in Mrs Ds ISA into his GIA. 
I think there may have been some confusion about this because in my provisional decision I 
said that an APS form is shown in the matrix as required for the ISA and GIA. This is 
because the GIA and ISA are shown in the matrix together and the APS form is then 
identified as one of the documents required. But there is a note to the matrix which makes 
clear that it is for the ISA rather than the GIA. I apologise for any confusion caused.
Mr D has referred to the loss of non-taxable profit on Mrs Ds ISA. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I didnt think there was a loss. I have been provided with no 
evidence to show that my findings on that are wrong, so I am not persuaded that there has 
been any loss to Mr D.
Turning to the points made by Transact it, in effect, argues that it was entitled to rely on the 
adviser confirming he was acting which meant that Mrs Ds portfolio was still identified as an 
advised portfolio. However, Im not persuaded that the advisers confirmation he was acting, 
or the fact the adviser continued to receive fees, means it did nothing wrong.
I note the screenshot it has provided showing five pages were sent to the adviser, the fifth 
page being the matrix. Based on this I accept this was sent to the adviser, contrary to the 
finding in my provisional decision. However, this isnt central to the main findings in my complaint and doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint.
Transact has made the point that that executors often arent clients of Transact and wont be 
familiar with Transacts products/documents  as was the case with Mr D1 in 2017. It has 
said this in support of why it didnt send the matrix to the executor when it wrote to him. 
I also acknowledge its explanation as to why the matrix wasnt sent to the executor. But it 
seems to me it hasnt then considered that as Mr D1 wasnt a client he would have no 
reason to know how Transact operated or that transferring Mrs Ds portfolio to Mr D wasnt 
simply a matter of instructing Transact to carry out the transfer and that he might need to 
seek advice about this.
Its letter to him of 22 September 2017 made reference to working in conjunction with 
financial advisers and stated that on notification of death it contacts the adviser to confirm 
that they are continuing to act on behalf of the deceaseds representative. But the letter then 
states:
We will write to the representative(s) to confirm that the adviser will continue to act on the 
portfolio unless they notify us otherwise.
This suggests that Transact will contact the adviser to confirm they are acting for the estate 
and will then write to the executor to confirm this. I have been provided with no evidence that 
Transact wrote to Mr D1, after the adviser emailed it to say he was acting, to confirm this to 
him. So, on the face of the evidence Mr D1 had no way of knowing the adviser had said he 
was dealing with the estate and no reason to think that was the case.
Furthermore, I am still not satisfied that the letter to Mr D1 of 22 September 2017 provided 
clear information. There is nothing in the letter to indicate that other documents, beyond 
those set out, might be needed depending on the type of account held and what the 
executor wanted to do with an account. 
I can see no good reason it could not have stated that other documents/information may be 
required depending on the type of account and what the executor wanted to do. Such a 
statement would not be specific only to Mrs Ds portfolio and could easily have been 
included in the generic letter Transact sent. It would have forewarned Mr D1 that it wasnt 
simply a matter of transferring Mrs Ds portfolio to Mr D.
In the circumstances I still think that Transact should pay Mr D £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by it not providing clear information to the executor which meant that 
the executor was unaware that Mr D could benefit from an APS.
Putting things right
 In the circumstances I still think that Transact should pay Mr D £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by it not providing clear information to the executor which meant that 
the executor was unaware that Mr D could benefit from an APS.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Integrated Financial Arrangements 
LTD must pay Mr D £200 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman