DRN-3435798
The complaint
Mr G complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very unfairly applied 
interest to his account after he was unable to make a payment online.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The main facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he saw error messages when attempting to make an online payment for 
items hed bought under buy now, pay later. He says this prevented him from making 
the payment in time, and so it was unfair of Shop Direct to apply interest to his 
account. Its not disputed that Mr Gs payment under buy now, pay later, wasnt 
received by the relevant date. So, Ive had to decide if the delay in Mr G making his 
payment was solely caused by the problems he says he encountered.
Shop Direct has sent us information that shows when Mr G logged into his online 
account and the pages he visited on the day his payment was due. I can see he 
logged online just before 3am, and again just after 6pm. Having reviewed the logs, 
theres nothing that shows Mr G visited the payment page on that date. Mr G has 
sent us a screenshot of an error message. However, this doesnt show the date on 
which it occurred, nor does it show anything to indicate that it came specifically from 
the online payment page.
Mr G has also sent us a screenshot of a message he sent to a webchat. His 
message explained hed encountered problems making an online payment and didnt 
want to be charged interest. However, this screenshot shows Mr G sent this 
message mid-afternoon the day after the payment was due.
Ive taken on board Mr Gs points, but I cant safely conclude Shop Direct are solely 
at fault for him being unable to make his payment on time. Thats because Ive seen 
nothing that explicitly shows he visited the payment page on the date his buy now, 
pay later period was due to end. And in the absence of that, his message about the 
online payment system was sent in the afternoon, the day after his payment was due. 
Mr Gs testimony persuades me he was aware of the date he needed to make his 
payment, and his actions showed he was aware of the webchat service. I consider 
its most likely a reasonable consumer would have sent a message at the time they 
encountered the problem so they could resolve it right away - or demonstrate they 
had tried to make the payment on time. Ive also had to place weight on the fact 
Mr Gs account statements and the website would have detailed alternative methods 
of payment. When considering this, I cant ignore Ive not seen any evidence that 
shows Mr G tried using a different payment method on the due date. Had Mr G done 
so, he either would have been able to make his payment on time to prevent being 
charged interest; or been able to better evidence that hed done all he could to make 
the payment on time. Its for these reasons, I cant say Shop Direct treated Mr G 
unfairly when they charged interest on the items he purchased under buy now, pay 
later.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr G hoped for. But in light of the above, I dont consider his 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman