DRN-3804231
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy for the theft of his vehicles alloy wheels.
Any reference to UKI in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In May 2022 the four alloy wheels on Mr Ss vehicle were stolen. The vehicle was at Mr Ss 
home and was left standing on blocks. Mr S contacted UKI to report the theft and lodge a 
claim. UKI arranged for the vehicle to be taken to a storage depot. The vehicle remained at 
the depot while UKI arranged for it to be collected and taken to an allocated repairer for the 
wheels to be replaced. However, the agents sent to collect the vehicle didnt have the 
necessary equipment to move a vehicle with missing wheels. 
The first repairer to where the vehicle was eventually taken were de-instructed by UKI and 
the vehicle taken to a second repairer. However, they told Mr S they were fully booked and 
couldnt carry out replacement of the wheels. Unhappy at this, and the time being taken for 
replacement wheels fitted, Mr S raised his concerns with UKI and asked them to take his 
vehicle to a main dealer of the vehicle make (who originally supplied the vehicle). UKI 
agreed, but it took some time for this to happen. Once at the dealer, the wheels were 
replaced within 48 hours. 
Mr S was unhappy it had taken nearly two months from the date of the theft for the wheels to 
be replaced. He was also unhappy that during the period, hed been provided with a hire car 
too small to carry his bike (as his vehicle was able to do). So, he complained to UKI. He 
wanted them to pay the £875 excess on his claim for the stolen wheels (as a goodwill 
gesture for the delays and inconvenience hed suffered).
UKI partially upheld the complaint. UKI apologised for one repairer having to decline the 
repair job because of capacity issues and the impact it had on Mr S. UKI also apologised for 
the delays in Mr Ss vehicle being collected to be taken for repair. However, UKI didnt 
uphold the part of complaint about the size of hire car, saying Mr Ss policy included the 
guaranteed hire car option that would supply a small hatchback type car (not a like for like 
car of similar size to Mr Ss vehicle). However, UKI note the hire car had been upgraded to a 
larger vehicle than provided for under the policy terms. To make up for the time the claim 
was taking (and Mr S had to call UKI back as his hire car hadnt been upgraded as hed 
expected) UKI offered Mr S £350 in compensation.
Mr S then complained to this service. He was unhappy at the delays in replacing the wheels, 
meaning it had been nearly two months from the date of the theft to his collecting the vehicle 
following the wheels being replaced. During the period he was without his vehicle, hed had 
to pay the finance costs (more than £1,000 a month) as well as insurance and road tax. Hed 
also had to pay for fuel for the hire car  whereas his vehicle was a hybrid and generally was 
able to run it on electric charge. Hed also had to borrow a friends car to go to cycling 
events, as he couldnt fit his cycle in the hire car(s). He didnt think the £350 compensation 
offered by UKI (plus an additional £50 for delay authorising the repair of his vehicle at the 
dealer) was sufficient for the delays and inconvenience hed suffered.  He was also unhappy 
at the number of calls hed had to make to UKI to find out what was happening with his 
vehicle and the reasons for the delays. He wanted UKI to (at least) pay the £875 excess hed 
have to pay under the terms of his policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part, concluding UKI hadnt acted fairly. He thought 
there were avoidable delays in handling of the claim, including vehicle collection, 
appointment of a repairer and authorising the replacement of the wheels.  On the hire car, 
the investigator thought provision was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the £50 compensation (for appointing an engineer and authorising the replacement 
wheels) and £350 compensation (for claim delays) was reasonable. On the finance, 
insurance and road tax costs of Mr S;s vehicle, the investigator thought Mr S would have 
needed to incur these costs in any event, so UKI shouldnt reimburse them. On the policy 
excess, he thought this was a contractual part of the policy, which Mr S had accepted when 
taking out the policy, so he didnt think UKI should reimburse the sum. But given the 
significant delays in the handling of the claim, he thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
UKI to reimburse the fuel costs incurred by Mr S (given he wouldnt have had to incur these 
costs for his own vehicle, as it normally ran on electric charge).
UKI disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.  On the reimbursement of fuel costs, they said Mr S would have had to pay to 
charge his vehicle, so they didnt think they should bear the full costs of the fuel for the hire 
cars. The policy wording also didnt provide policyholders with timescales for repairs, so any 
covering of fuel costs should be from the point delays started (not the entire time of the claim 
(from the theft to the return of Mr Ss vehicle). And theyd factored this in when offering 
compensation to Mr S. They also said that while the policy provided for a hire car, it didnt 
extend to the costs associated with using that car (including fuel). And theyd upgraded the 
hire car in response to Mr Ss request.
In my findings, I agreed with the conclusions of our investigator with the exception of the 
question of reimbursement of fuel costs. I thought about the points carefully, including those 
raised by UKI in response to our investigators view. On balance I agreed with UKI. Even if 
Mr S only used his vehicle on electric power (not powered by the conventional engine) he 
would have incurred costs in charging the vehicle (whether at home or at public charging 
points). And the policy didnt provide cover for the costs of fuelling a hire car (nor did it 
require UKI to provide a direct (hybrid) hire car). And as Mr S was provided with a small 
hatchback type car under the terms of the policy, I thought any additional fuel costs would 
have been marginal (particularly as it appeared he was abroad for some of the period). 
 
Because I reached a different conclusion on the reimbursement of fuel costs to that of our 
investigator, I issued a provisional conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider 
matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is the time taken for his claim to be dealt with (and 
consequently the length of time he was without his own vehicle following the theft of the 
wheels). In total. From the theft of the wheels in May 2022 through to the return of his 
vehicle with replacement wheels, the period was just under two months. Mr S says the 
delays meant he was without his vehicle for this time, which in turn led to inconvenience and 
additional costs (which Ill come on to). UKI acknowledge there were delays in handling his 
claim and having replacement wheels fitted. In recognition of this, theyve offered a total of 
£400 in compensation (£50 and a further £350).On the key issue of delays, looking at the sequence of events, its clear there were delays in 
replacing the wheels on Mr Ss vehicle. These included delays caused by the agent taking 
the vehicle to an approved repairer not having the right equipment to move a vehicle without 
its wheels. Delays were also caused by the first repairer (to the extent UKI then assigned the 
vehicle to a second repairer, only for them to be unable to do the work because of capacity 
issues). It was only when Mr S got UKI to agree to take the vehicle to the main dealer that 
replacement wheels were fitted (and the vehicle returned to Mr S). 
These delays were avoidable, and I think its clear Mr S was without his vehicle for longer 
than he should have been (which in turn led to the other issues of the complaint, which Ill 
come onto). These delays caused inconvenience to Mr S, compounded by his having to 
contact UKI on many occasions to find out what the position was with his vehicle, and what 
was happening. UKI have acknowledged the delays and their impact and have offered a 
total of £400 in compensation. Ive thought carefully about the impact of the delays on Mr S, 
particularly the distress and inconvenience they will have caused him (including having to 
make several calls to find out what was happening). In the circumstances of the case, I think 
UKIs offer of £400 compensation is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
Turning to the other issues raised by Mr S, including what he maintains are additional costs 
hes had to bear, I think there are several issues. First, during the time he was without his 
vehicle, hed paid the finance costs (more than £1,000 a month) as well as insurance and 
road tax. I can understand why Mr S feels he should be compensated for these, as he wasnt 
able to use his vehicle. However, he would have had to incur these costs in any event, so I 
dont think its reasonable for UKI to reimburse them. His vehicle would always have been 
unavailable to him whilst in for replacement of the wheels, and Ive considered the issue of 
inconvenience when thinking about what would be fair compensation.
Second, hed only been provided with a small courtesy car, meaning he couldnt fit his cycle 
into it. UKI say the policy terms and conditions mean a hire car is provided when a vehicle is 
in for repair  but as standard the policy wording says this is limited to:
a small hatchback, so may not be of a similar size or style to your car. 
The policy includes an option to take out a higher grade of hire car cover (to provide a hire 
car of similar physical size to the policyholders car) but Mr S hadnt taken up this optional 
cover. Given this, Ive concluded UKI acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
in providing a basic hire car. Ive also noted Mr S was provided with an upgraded hire car 
(although still not comparable with his vehicle).
Third, Mr S wants UKI to reimburse (or not charge) the policy excess (£875) due under the 
terms of the policy. Ive thought about this, but I dont think it would be reasonable to ask UKI 
to do this. Thats because the excess is a contractual part of the policy Mr S took out (and for 
which he paid the relevant premium). Irrespective of the delays in handling his claim, he 
would always have had to pay the excess as part of the settling of the claim  even had the 
claim been settled (and his vehicle returned) more quickly than it was.
Fourth, theres the question of the fuel cost of the hire car provided by UKI. Mr S says he 
had to pay for fuel for the hire car, whereas his vehicle was a hybrid  and he normally was 
able to drive it on electric charge only (so didnt need to pay for fuel). UKI say the policy 
provides a hire car while a policyholders vehicle is in for repair, but it doesnt cover the costs 
of fuel (on the basis a policyholder would otherwise have had to pay for fuel for their own 
vehicle). UKI also say, even accepting Mr S had a hybrid vehicle, he would have had to pay 
to charge it. So, it isnt reasonable to ask them to pay for fuel costs for the hire car (or at 
least not for the whole time Mr S was without his vehicle).Ive thought about these points carefully, but on balance I agree with UKI. Even if Mr S only 
used his vehicle on electric power (not powered by the conventional engine) he would have 
incurred costs in charging the vehicle (whether at home or at public charging points). And 
the policy doesnt provide cover for the costs of fuelling a hire car (nor, given what Ive said 
about the type of hire car the policy terms provide, does it require UKI to provide a direct 
(hybrid) hire car). And given Mr S was provided with a small hatchback type car under the 
terms of the policy, I think any additional fuel costs would have been marginal (particularly as 
it appears he was abroad for some of the period). 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in 
part. I intend to require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to:
  
Pay Mr S £400 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (assuming they 
havent already paid it).
UKI Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr S responded to accept the provisional decision. UKI responded to say they had no further 
comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly towards Mr S.
As Mr S has responded to accept the provisional decision and UKI say they have no further 
comments to add, then my final decision remains unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to:  
Pay Mr S £400 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (assuming they 
havent already paid it).
UKI Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman