DRN-3540421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK plc declined a claim made under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This was provided through a 
packaged bank account and provided cover for trips worldwide.
Mr and Mrs W went abroad on 29 January 2020, with them due to travel back to the UK on 
29 March 2020. But a few days before they were due to travel home, on 25 March 2020, 
their return flight was cancelled. So, theyve explained they were stuck abroad, incurring 
additional expenses  such as accommodation and medication costs. 
Because of the above, Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their travel insurance policy. They 
had numerous communications with AXA and an interim payment of £2,500 was paid to 
them. However, AXA later informed Mr and Mrs W that the interim payment shouldnt have 
been provided to them  because the insurance policy didnt cover the circumstances Mr 
and Mrs W found themselves in.
AXA explained that the policy provided cover for a trip that was no longer than 45 days in 
duration. And the costs Mr and Mrs W were claiming for were outside of those 45 days. It 
said Mr and Mrs Ws holiday was in fact due to be 61 days long, and the flight had been 
cancelled on day 57. So, AXA said it wouldnt be settling any more costs in relation to the 
claim. And, it said it would need Mr and Mrs W to return the £2,500 already paid to them.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this. They questioned why it had taken AXA so long to tell 
them the claim wasnt actually covered. And they said they had actually contacted AXA 
previously, to ask whether they needed to purchase trip extension cover  to ensure the 
whole of their time away was covered. But, when they had spoken to an advisor on the 
phone, theyd said Mr and Mrs W didnt need a travel extension, because they were 
travelling to different countries during their holiday  and would be considered as two 
different trips.
AXA considered Mr and Mrs Ws concerns. But maintained its position on the matter. It said 
Mr and Mrs W could take as many trips as they liked within their insurance period. But the 
duration of those trips was to be a maximum of 45 days. AXA said there was no evidence of 
Mr and Mrs W purchasing travel extension cover. Or of Mr and Mrs W speaking to an AXA 
representative to ask whether this was necessary. AXA suggested Mr and Mrs W may have 
called the bank the policy was taken through, instead of it. 
AXA recognised the time taken to tell Mr and Mrs W that the claim was declined, and the 
incorrect payment of £2,500. And it offered Mr and Mrs £100, to be deducted from the 
£2,500 they needed to return to AXA, to compensate them for the trouble and upset this 
caused.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said theyd be in the presence of their travel companions at 
the time they had called AXA to check whether they needed to an extension to cover. And 
they had been told no. Mr and Mrs W said they had called AXA, not the bank. 
As AXAs position didnt change, and Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied, they referred their 
complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and were satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ws costs 
whilst still abroad werent covered by their policy. The investigator noted the maximum 
duration of 45 days per trip and said Mr and Mrs Ws claim was for costs that arose following 
these 45 days.
Our investigator said they hadnt been able to find firm evidence of the call Mr and Mrs W 
said theyd made to AXA about their cover, or of them being told a travel extension wasnt 
required.
However, our investigator considered that AXA should increase the compensation offered to 
Mr and Mrs W by a further £150  so the total was £250, for the delay in declining the claim, 
and the incorrect interim payment. They felt that more fairly recognised the upset caused.
AXA agreed, and paid the £250 to Mr and Mrs Ws bank account.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They accepted the 45-day duration on their policy but reiterated 
that they had called AXA to seek advice about trip extension cover and been told they didnt 
it. Mr and Mrs W provided information on the phone number they called AXA from, for AXA 
to try and locate the call from when they contacted it to discuss whether travel extension 
cover was needed. And they provided a letter from their travelling companions, to confirm Mr 
and Mrs W had called AXA about the situation.
Our investigator investigated whether AXA had any record of the call Mr and Mrs W 
explained they made. AXA responded with screenshots showing their search didnt locate a 
call from the relevant number, to themselves. Our investigator said that without this call, and 
firm evidence of what had been discussed, their opinion didnt change. And they noted that 
whilst Mr and Mrs Ws travel companions had provided a letter, this didnt change the 
opinion either.
Mr and Mrs W noted AXAs call handlers had made a number of errors, and that the 
absence of the call was another one. Mr and Mrs W felt AXA, and our investigator, were 
calling them liars  as well as Mr and Mrs Ws travel companions.
Because Mr and Mrs W disagreed, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision is to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained the reason for 
the below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether AXA, in declining this claim, acted in line with these requirements. 
And Im satisfied it did.Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws policy documentation. And I can see this is clear in noting that 
the policy has a maximum trip limit, of 45 days. This is noted in a number of places within the 
policy, including under the definition of the word trip, which explains that a trip is:
 any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey within the geographical limits, during the 
period of insurance, commencing and ending in Your Home Area, with a maximum duration 
of 45 days.
Mr and Mrs W accept the above maximum limit is within their policy. And Mr and Mrs Ws 
return flight, scheduled for 29 March 2020, was outside of this 45-day limit. So, Im satisfied 
that any losses arising from the cancellation of the flight arent covered by the policy. With 
that in mind, AXA fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim  the loss isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs W have said that whilst they can see the policy doesnt provide cover to them, 
for longer than 45 consecutive days, they did seek advice from AXA prior to travelling. 
Mr and Mrs W said they were on a different holiday with their travelling companions, when 
those companions said theyd taken out a trip extension  to cover the entire length of their 
trip. 
Mr and Mrs W said they therefore called AXA, to see if they needed to purchase cover 
additional cover, to ensure they had insurance in place for the entire duration of their trip  
this being from 29 January 2020 to 29 March 2020. Mr and Mrs W said they were told by a 
representative from AXA that they didnt need this extension  which is why they didnt take 
it out. Mr and Mrs W noted this was wrong information cost them to ability to be covered for 
the whole trip, and therefore the extended stay abroad they had, due to the pandemic.
Ive considered this element of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. This service has been provided 
with details from Mr and Mrs W of the phone number they used to call AXA. And we asked 
AXA to search for these calls. It has provided evidence, in the form of screenshots, which 
show it hasnt a log on its phone system, of any incoming call from that number, when Mr 
and Mrs W said they called. 
Mr and Mrs W have submitted information to show they cant provide telephone records  as 
the call was made on a pay as you go phone, which is no longer in service. 
Because of the above, I havent seen any firm evidence of the call. That isnt to say it didnt 
take place. Mr and Mrs W are clear that did it. And have provided a letter from their travelling 
companions noting the same.
But, to say AXA did something wrong here, Id need to be persuaded that AXA spoke to Mr 
and Mrs W, knew the full details of Mr and Mrs Ws specific situation and gave them wrong 
information. Information that told them a claim would be successful, and no trip extension 
needed, for anything over the maximum trip duration of 45 days. Mr and Mrs W have said 
they were told their holiday would be considered as two trips. But I havent firm evidence of 
that  and how AXA explained and worded any information it gave. And the terms and 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Ws policy is clear as to what a trip is. So, I think Mr and Mrs W had 
sufficient information to highlight that they needed an extension to cover. 
I do however acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W experienced some customer service issues 
with their claim. They were provided with an interim payment of £2,500  but then later told 
the claim was declined. I think Mr and Mrs W could have been told the claim was declined 
more efficiently than they were. And I can see how AXAs error of sending them £2,500 
when the claim wasnt covered, would have led to a loss of expectation when they were 
eventually told the claim wasnt covered.
Given that AXA took too long to decline the claim and caused confusion and inconvenience 
by providing the above interim payment, I do think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation for this trouble and upset. Our investigator recommended a 
total of £250. And AXA agreed to this. Ive thought about whether this level of compensation 
is fair. And Im satisfied it is. I think it fairly recognises the trouble and upset the above issues 
caused. And so, I dont require AXA to pay anything additional to the £250 compensation. 
If Mr and Mrs W havent paid back the claim settlement they were wrongly provided with, 
they will need to do so. And AXA will need to work with Mr and Mrs W, to ensure this can be 
repaid in a way thats sustainable for Mr and Mrs W. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK plc should pay Mr and Mrs W 
compensation of £250 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman