DRN-3448628
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC have failed to locate and pay funds from an account 
he said he holds with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B has provided a passbook he found in the process of moving home. The 
passbook records several entries, but there are none after September 1972. The 
remaining balance was recorded as around £566.
The account was opened around 50 years ago and unsurprisingly there is no 
information available from around the time. And neither Mr B or Barclays have been 
able to provide further information regarding the accounts existence.
In these types of situations, if the account was dormant, I would expect Barclays to 
have a record of it - but it doesnt. 
Barclays provided internal screenshots of the searches it carried out to locate Mr Bs 
account. I can see Barclays searched using his name, his post code, his sort code, 
the account number Mr B provided and his date of birth - but this didnt return any 
results. So, Im satisfied its done enough to try to locate the account and that it isnt 
dormant.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the passbook, but Im not persuaded this is 
alone is enough proof the account is still open. Its more likely than not Mr B has had 
benefit of the money and the account was closed some time ago. There is no trace of 
a dormant account, and if the account was still open, Barclays wouldve likely found it 
in its searches. So I wont be asking it to do anything.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman