DRN-3272660
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused them distress during a 
mortgage application.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr M applied for a mortgage with Barclays. A mortgage offer was issued in 
February 2021. Completion was arranged for 18 June 2021 with the funds due to be 
released to Mrs H and Mr Ms solicitors on 17 June 2021.
On 17 June 2021, Barclays indicated it wasnt going to release the funds  as one of the 
names on one of the identity documents provided didnt entirely match the application. And it 
said this needed to be rectified and a new mortgage offer provided.
Mrs H and Mr M and their representatives made a number of calls to Barclays to try and get 
this rectified urgently. The issue was resolved on 18 June 2021, and the funds were 
released on the same day, allowing the completion to take place as intended.
Mrs H and Mr M complained to Barclays. They said they were unhappy that this matter had 
only come to light on the day the funds were scheduled to be released. They said theyd 
been caused significant distress and inconvenience by Barclays saying it was unable to 
release the funds and then by it not being able to assure them the matter would be dealt with 
in time and quoting its usual turnaround time of five days. They said they felt the issue had 
only been rectified because they were proactive. And they were worried that their house 
purchase couldve fallen through and that their property chain couldve collapsed, potentially 
causing them to incur penalties. To put things right they said they wanted Barclays to 
compensate them for the upset caused. They suggested a payment similar to an early 
repayment charge theyd incurred on a previous mortgage with Barclays, prior to this 
transaction, would be fair.
Barclays acknowledged that there had been a failing in its processes which had meant the 
issue with the identity document was picked up much later than it shouldve been. It didnt 
think the staff members Mrs H and Mr M spoke to were wrong not to guarantee that the 
matter would be resolved in time  as they couldnt know this for certain. But Barclays 
accepted the issue wouldve been distressing for Mrs H and Mr M. To put things right it 
offered them £150 and a gift (a bottle of champagne) for the upset caused. Barclays felt this 
was fair as it had rectified the issue promptly and the completion had gone ahead as 
scheduled.
Mrs H and Mr M didnt think this offer went far enough and asked our service to consider the 
matter. One of our Investigators considered the complaint. They felt the offer made by 
Barclays was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs H and Mr M did not agree. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has acknowledged that there were failings in its processes. And that the issue with 
the identity document shouldve been picked up sooner and addressed a lot earlier. I agree 
that it wouldve been better for this issue to be addressed long before the scheduled 
completion date. So Im satisfied, and Barclays accepts, it did do something wrong by not 
picking this up sooner.
Barclays though argues, when the issue was identified, it dealt with the matter promptly. And 
I agree. The evidence Ive seen indicates that the matter was fast tracked internally by 
Barclays and ultimately resolved, allowing the completion to take place as scheduled. 
Mrs H and Mr M have said that they are unhappy that they had to make a lot of phone calls 
to Barclays about this and that nobody could provide them assurances that the issue would 
be resolved. And they dont think this wouldve gone through if they hadnt been proactive.
I can understand why, in the circumstances, Mrs H and Mr M felt compelled to call Barclays 
as many times as they did. But as Ive said, Im satisfied that the matter was looked at as a 
priority by Barclays. And I havent seen anything that suggests it wasnt being treated as a 
priority immediately after it was first raised. So, I cant reasonably say the issue wouldnt 
have been resolved but for the additional calls Mrs H and Mr M made. And again, ultimately 
it was resolved, and no additional costs were incurred by Mrs H and Mr M.
I dont doubt it was frustrating and worrying that Barclays couldnt assure them that the 
matter would be resolved in time. But I think what Barclays has said  that the front-line staff 
Mrs H and Mr M spoke to couldnt guarantee this  is reasonable. I dont think those staff 
would be in a position to say with certainty that the issue would be resolved in time. So, I 
dont think they were wrong to express this.
And so, while I think Barclays made a mistake by not addressing this issue sooner than it 
did, Im satisfied it acted fairly, and promptly, when the problem came to light.
I dont doubt that the issues caused Mrs H and Mr M distress and inconvenience. Moving 
house is always a stressful time, even more so when there is a chain of inter dependent 
transactions involved. And to find out about this problem at what they expected to be the end 
of the process  having understood for a number of months there were no issues with the 
mortgage  would, I dont doubt, have been very stressful. 
I dont though think itd be fair or reasonable to say that Barclays should refund an early 
repayment charge previously incurred, because of this. The upset caused by the issue with 
their new mortgage application isnt related to, and didnt cause, that charge to be applied. 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest that charge was applied incorrectly.
Ive thought about what would be fair in the circumstances. Ive taken on board what Mrs H 
and Mr M have said about how worrying this was, and the potential consequences if the 
funds hadnt been released. And I understand why this wouldve caused them concern. But 
again, this didnt actually end up happening. And, although over 17 and 18 June 2021, I 
dont doubt they were particularly worried, the issue was resolved promptly.
So, taking everything into account, I think the offer of £150 and a gift already made by 
Barclays, is fair and reasonable. And so, I wont be requiring Barclays to do any more here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint as I think Barclays Bank UK Plc 
has already made a fair offer to resolve things.
If it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK Plc should do what it has previously offered to 
by paying the £150 compensation to Mrs H and Mr M and sending them the suggested gift.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman