DRN-2323935
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sold the debt from her loan to a 
third party, although she says it knew that she was unwell at the time.
What happened
Ms B took out a loan with Halifax in early 2009. She had difficulty making the payments, and 
her loan was defaulted in 2010. 
Ms B said that shed recently found out that Halifax had sold this loan back in 2013. She said 
it shouldnt have done that, because it knew about her ill health. She said it shouldve kept 
this loan in house. 
Ms B has told us about the significant mental health issues shes faced since 2013, and 
about the personal difficulties this led to. She has explained that people who cared for her at 
the time were hiding correspondence from her, because of her mental health issues. Thats 
why shed only found out in May 2019 that this debt had been sold.
Halifax said that Ms B had complained about her loan in February 2013. Halifax said that it 
had written to Ms B then to ask her for more information about her ill health, as well as 
details of her financial situation. But although it waited some time, it never received a reply. 
Halifax said it sold this loan to a third party in June 2013, and it wrote to Ms B to tell her this 
in late July 2013.
Halifax didnt think our service could consider this complaint, because of the length of time 
that has passed, but an ombudsman at our service has decided we can look into this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that at the time when 
Ms Bs loan was sold, the Lending Standards Boards (LSB) code applied. 
That code covers actions businesses should take if they are thinking about selling a debt to 
a third party. If a customer is in financial difficulty, the business can still sell the debt, but 
they should make the third party aware of the customers financial difficulty and ensure 
relevant protections are in place. 
But our investigator said that businesses arent supposed to sell the debt if the customer has 
an ongoing mental health or critical illness that affects their ability to repay the debt, provided 
the customer has shown evidence of this. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax knew that Ms B was unwell. He said it wrote to her in 
February 2013, to say it could offer help with her loan debt, but Ms B would need to confirm 
that she would commit to setting up a repayment plan. To help with this, Halifax requested 
details of Ms Bs income and expenditure. And it also asked for details of her medical 
condition.
Halifax has told us it never received any reply. Our investigator said that he understood that 
it was around this time that Ms B experienced significant mental health issues. But he just 
didnt think Halifax knew about Ms Bs financial difficulties or mental health issues. And he 
thought it was fair for Halifax to wait four months for a reply before it sold the debt. So he 
didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong when it sold this debt. 
Ms B didnt think that four months was a reasonable time period for her to have got in touch 
with Halifax. Because she didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I appreciate that Ms B has been very significantly unwell, and I understand why those 
closest to her took the decision not to show her post that was sent to her at the time. I do 
hope shes now starting to feel better. 
But what I have to look at here, isnt whether Ms B was very unwell. I think all those involved 
in this case now accept that she was. What I have to think about, is whether Halifax knew 
about this at the time. 
I agree with our investigator, that the LSB code applied at the time of this debt sale. So if 
Halifax knew about Ms Bs mental health, then it ought to have considered whether it was 
appropriate to sell this debt. But Ive not seen anything to make me think that Halifax had 
been sent the evidence it requested, to show just how unwell Ms B was, before it sold this 
debt. So, although I understand that Ms B was very seriously unwell at the time, I dont think 
Halifax knew about the extent of Ms Bs illness.
Ms B has said that four months wasnt a reasonable time period for her to have responded to 
Halifax. But the LSB code which applied at the time suggested that businesses should allow 
a period of 28 days. That makes me think that a period of four months was a reasonable 
time for Halifax to allow for a response. 
Because Ms B hadnt contacted Halifax during this time, and particularly because Halifax 
hadnt received anything in response to its request for further information and evidence 
about her illness, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it sold Ms Bs debt.
I know Ms B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman