DRN-2548190
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage and linked current account (known as a mortgage 
current account and hereafter referred to as an MCA) Ms F and Mr K hold with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. Theyre unhappy that Barclays allowed the overdraft on the MCA to increase 
significantly after having written to say the facility limit would be capped. 
Ms F and Mr K accept they owe the money but say Barclays shouldnt charge interest on the 
extra borrowing that was allowed after the limit should have been restricted. The complaint 
has been brought jointly by Ms F and Mr K, but our dealings have been exclusively with 
Ms F.
What happened
 The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (using my own words and rounding the 
figures involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms F and Mr Ks situation in 2014 was that they had an interest-only mortgage with a 
balance of around £157,000, and an MCA with a balance of just over £49,000 against a 
facility limit of around £85,000. In October 2014, Barclays wrote to say that, following a 
review, it had decided to reduce the facility limit down to the existing balance; i.e. around 
£49,000. This was to take effect in January 2015 unless Ms F and Mr K contacted the bank 
to say otherwise.
As far as Ms F and Mr K were concerned, this wasnt a problem; Ms F had serious health 
problems at the time (the details of which I dont disclose here to preserve her privacy) and 
says that shed actually requested the MCA limit be capped.
Its now known that this reduction never happened; the facility limit remained unchanged, 
and in 2017, Mr K made a series of withdrawals (some by cheque, some by electronic 
transfer to a current account that he uses for personal and business banking purposes) 
making further use of the facility. With accrued interest, the MCA has reached its limit.
This complaint started in early 2020 after Ms F found the letter from October 2014 (it had 
been misfiled) and remembered that the MCA should have been capped at £49,000. 
Barclays accepted that it had made a mistake in not reducing Ms F and Mr Ks MCA facility 
limit in 2014 but pointed out that it was their decision to use it in 2017, therefore it was 
reasonable that they pay it back, with the interest it attracts in accordance with the 
underlying contract. 
Our investigator broadly agreed with this but said Barclays should pay more compensation 
for Ms F and Mr Ks time and trouble. Barclays had offered £175; the investigator 
recommended £250. Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation, but Ms F and 
Mr K have asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Throughout the time the case has been with us, Ms F and Mr K have struggled with the 
mortgage and MCA, due to the impact of the pandemic on their wider financial situation. 
Theyve reported problems with the way Barclays has handled matters during the pandemic, 
and weve explained these matters can be looked at in a separate complaint if they wish to 
bring one. 
So theres no ambiguity here, my decision here deals solely with the complaint about the 
MCA limit not being capped in January  2015, in accordance with the letter of October 2014. 
Where I mention Ms F and Mrs Ks current difficulties, its for context only.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
I can see how much time and effort Ms F has put into trying to prove that she informed 
Barclays of her health problems and asked it to reduce the limit on the MCA. I know its 
important to her on a personal level, but in terms of the complaint, its not something I need 
to make a finding on. 
Thats because, regardless of what prompted it to do so, Barclays indisputably decided to 
cap the MCA limit at £49,000 and wrote telling Ms F and Mr K this in October 2014. The 
letter also said that once reduced, the limit could not be increased again in future; Ill come 
back to that point shortly.
Barclays then, for reasons unknown, didnt reduce the limit as it had said it would; that was 
Barclays error, and in fairness, it has acknowledged as much. So I dont need to make a 
finding on that; what I do need to decide is whether and to what extent Ms F and Mr Ks 
current position is worse than it would otherwise have been. 
Ms F asks why no one at Barclays challenged Mr K over the withdrawals in 2017; that goes 
back to the point I mentioned a moment ago about the October 2014 letter saying that once 
reduced, the limit couldnt be increased again. If Barclays had reduced the limit in 
January 2015, then yes, allowing it to increase again in 2017 would have been wrong and Id 
expect Mr K to have been challenged when he tried to make the transactions. 
But because the banks error was in not reducing the limit to begin with, there was no reason 
for Mr Ks activity in 2017 to be challenged. He was simply making use of the facility that was 
still there.Whatever confusion there may have been over where the MCA limit should have been after 
2014, Mr Ks usage of it in 2017 was documented in the regular statements that Barclays 
sent showing him and Ms F how much of the facility had been used from time to time. I take 
Ms Fs point entirely that due to her ill health, her attention was not fully on financial matters 
in the way they would normally be. Thats entirely understandable, but this is a joint 
mortgage, and Mr K had an equal role with Ms F in managing it.
Ms F in particular has been stung by the suggestion from Barclays that she and Mr K 
benefitted from the funds he was allowed to draw on. I dont mean this unkindly, but its hard 
to conclude otherwise. Their own evidence suggests there were financial pressures in 2017 
that Mr K felt could be alleviated by drawing on the MCA; he apparently did so rather than 
worry Ms F. Ms F has said that they could have borrowed from family instead, but Im not 
convinced how feasible that would have been in reality.
Ms F has told us that theyve borrowed from family to meet the interest due on the MCA in 
recent months, due to the impact of the pandemic. But Ms F has also said that this is not a 
sustainable solution in the long-term; nor would it, in my view, have been in 2017 when the 
sums involved were significantly greater. 
Most likely in my view however, is that he and Ms F would have had to borrow elsewhere; 
perhaps by credit card or loans. Such borrowing would certainly have attracted interest and 
most likely at much higher interest rates than Barclays has applied to the MCA.
Notwithstanding Barclays mistake, using the MCA wasnt compulsory. It was Mr Ks choice 
to use it; but on the basis of what Ms F has told us, it seems there was a genuine need to 
the money. So whilst it might seem an unwelcome suggestion that Ms F and Mr K have 
benefitted from the banks mistake, I cant avoid the strong likelihood that theyd have been 
in a worse position without it. In that broader context, its fair and reasonable that Ms F and 
Mr K be charged interest in accordance with the contract terms.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Ms F and Mr K have been for so long here, its 
a natural subjective reaction to see things on ones own terms. But I have a different remit. I 
have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine 
detail and taking an overview. Having done that, I cant find in Ms F and Mr Ks favour 
however much they would like me to.
I appreciate Ms F and Mr K were looking for an outcome to this complaint that would go 
towards alleviating their current problems. Im sorry I cant provide that for them; but it 
warrants reminding both parties that Barclays has a regulatory duty to treat Ms F and Mr K 
fairly in the way it addresses their current circumstances against the wider backdrop of the 
pandemic. 
If they think Barclays isnt meeting that duty, Ms F and Mr K could make a separate 
complaint about that, and if not satisfied with the response, refer the complaint to us. But as 
far as the current complaint is concerned, Ms F and Mr K are due fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset Barclays omission caused them, but no further redress other than that. I 
agree with our investigator that £175 isnt sufficient, and that £250 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement, I direct Barclays Bank UK plc to pay Ms F and Mr K £250 
compensation for their time, trouble and upset. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman