DRN-1437197
The complaint
Mr D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr D was given 28 loans by Sunny between March 2018 and June 2019. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr D generally repaid the loans far 
earlier than planned. At times Mr D had up to four loans outstanding at the same time. All of 
Mr Ds loans have been fully repaid and a summary of some of his borrowing from Sunny is 
shown below.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 13/03/2018 06/04/2018 £  300
2 15/03/2018 23/03/2018 £  100
3 24/03/2018 04/05/2018 £  100
4 01/04/2018 04/05/2018 £  50
5 10/04/2018 14/05/2018 £  200
6 14/04/2018 16/05/2018 £  150
7 12/05/2018 06/07/2018 £  100
8 14/05/2018 06/07/2018 £  150
9 19/05/2018 10/10/2018 £  150
10 07/06/2018 12/11/2018 £  100
11 07/07/2018 08/10/2018 £  200
12 06/08/2018 06/09/2018 £  50
: : : :
27 11/05/2019 13/06/2019 £  400
28 06/06/2019 13/06/2019 £  150
 
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first four loans to Mr D. But he didnt think Sunny should have agreed 
to lend the remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Mr D some compensation.
Sunny didnt agree with that assessment but it offered to refund the interest and charges 
Mr D had paid from loan 23 onwards. Mr D didn't accept that offer. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is legally binding on both 
parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr D. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Ds loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr D needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. And at times Mr D had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to 
consider the total amount that Mr D needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think the fact that Mr D repaid many of his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mr D.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr D needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
But I think, by the time Mr D asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have realised that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. This was now his fifth 
loan request in less than a month. Two of his loans had been repaid much earlier than 
needed, followed by Mr D borrowing a similar amount once again. I think Sunny should have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ds true financial position.
I've looked at copies of Mr D's bank statements to see what better checks would have shown 
Sunny. And I think that Sunny would have seen that Mr D was facing serious problems 
managing his money at that time. He had at least four other short term loans outstanding, 
together with the two loans he already had from Sunny. I don't think it would have been 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D could repay any further borrowing in a sustainable 
manner.
And in little more than a month Mr D repaid another four loans, but also borrowed another 
four loans from Sunny. And the overall amount he owed to Sunny had barely changed. Over 
that time there was no improvement in the rest of Mr D's financial situation. He continued to 
borrow from both Sunny and other short term lenders. So I don't think loans 6 to 9 should 
have been agreed either.
And looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D I think by loan 10 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt provide any further loans. 
This was now Mr Ds tenth loan request in just under three months. Each of the loans Mr D 
had taken had been repayable over a period of six months. But Mr D regularly paid those 
loans off far earlier than planned, but borrowed similar amounts very shortly afterwards. I 
think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny 
that Mr D was most likely having significant problems managing his money. 
When Mr D asked for loan 10 he wasnt making any inroads to the amount he owed the 
lender. By taking that loan the total amount he had outstanding was equal to the largest 
amount he'd had outstanding to date. 
Between loan 10 and loan 28 Mr D continued to have multiple loans active at the same time. 
So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr D was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr 
Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.I have considered that there was a gap of just over three months before loan 17 when Mr D 
had no borrowing from Sunny. But given what had gone before I don't think that gap was 
anywhere near long enough to give Sunny any confidence that Mr D's finances had returned 
to a more stable footing. And in fact Mr D's reliance on Sunny's loans returned very quickly 
afterwards and his borrowing pattern resumed.
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 10 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ds 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr D from loan 5 onwards. Sunny 
needs to pay Mr D some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr D after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 10 April 2018 (loan 5). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr D on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
loans 5 to 9.
The number of loans taken from loans 10 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 10 to 28 should be removed from 
Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mr Ds complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman