DRN-4208802
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) started to charge her the monthly 
account fee for her Gold Service account in October 2022.
Mrs B says that she should not be charged this fee as she raised a complaint in 2015 about 
being charged the monthly fee for the account, and Lloyds agreed to refund her the monthly 
account fees that shed been charged on her account.
What happened
Lloyds wrote to Mrs B in June 2021 to say that the fee-waiver that was on her account - 
whereby she didnt have to pay the monthly account fee if she kept her account balance 
above £2,000  was being removed. The letter explained that the monthly account fee would 
start being applied to Mrs Bs account in October 2021.
However, for some reason, Mrs B was not charged the monthly account fee until October 
2022, which meant Mrs B was able to have the account for free for an extra year.
Mrs B complained to Lloyds when she noticed the fee because she said shed not been 
notified that the fee would be taken. And Mrs B said that shed complained about the 
monthly account fee being applied to her account in 2015 and Lloyds had agreed to refund 
her the account fees at that point.
Lloyds issued two response letters to her complaint. In the first letter sent on 3 November 
2022, Lloyds said that it had written to Mrs B (in June 2021) about the changes being made 
to the account. Lloyds explained that due to the 12 month delay in the fees being charged, a 
reminder letter should have been sent to Mrs B before the fees started to be taken from her 
account, but due to an error, this reminder was never sent. To apologise for this error, Lloyds 
agreed to refund the monthly account fees from when they were first charged in October 
2022, up until February 2023. This was a total of £74.75. Lloyds also paid Mrs B £40 for the 
poor service shed received.
Lloyds then issued another response to the complaint on 9 November 2022 and agreed to 
pay Mrs B a further £75 to apologise for an incorrect information she mayve been provided 
and a further £12 to cover her call costs.
After Mrs B referred her complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint and they ultimately agreed that what the business had done to put matters right 
was reasonable.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators assessments, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think the business needs to do anything more than what it has already done to put matters 
right.
Based on what I have seen Mrs B has held a fee-paying Gold Service account for many 
years. In return for a monthly fee, the account provided a range of benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone cover. It also included a 
feature whereby, providing the balance of the account was kept above a certain amount, the 
account holder would not have to pay the monthly fee. This feature is known as a fee-waiver.
In June 2021, Lloyds took the decision to remove the fee-waiver from all Gold Service 
accounts that were still open. I understand that Mrs B is unhappy with this change, as she 
has essentially been able to enjoy all of the benefits of the Gold Service account for many 
years, without having to pay for them (although she did have to keep a certain amount of 
money in the account to avoid paying the monthly fee). But the removal of the fee-waiver 
feature is something that Lloyds is entitled to do. I say this because, as far as I can see, the 
account terms and conditions contain a variation clause  that essentially allows Lloyds to 
change the cost or benefits of the account, provided sufficient notice is given. 
It may help to explain that variation clauses are standard terms for package accounts. This is 
because packaged accounts usually operate on a monthly rolling basis - rather than for a set 
period of time. So, including a variation clause in the account terms and conditions allows 
the bank to make changes to the account, without having to get the consent of every 
account holder each and every time the bank needs to change the features of the account.
It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and also which 
ones to discontinue too. Indeed, Lloyds added, changed and removed various features of 
the account (as well as increased the cost of the account) a number of times in the years 
that Mrs B held the account. This includes changing the amount that Mrs B needed to keep 
in the account to avoid paying the monthly fee. 
I understand that Mrs B was charged the monthly account fees in 2015 and after she raised 
a complaint with Lloyds at the time, Lloyds agreed to refund those account fees. I can see 
why Mrs B has challenged Lloyds again about being charged the monthly account fee - 
given what happened in 2015. But ultimately, just because Lloyds agreed to refund account 
fees in 2015, this does not mean that Lloyds could not remove the fee-waiver in 2021 (or 
September 2022 as was the case for Mrs B).  
However, when making such changes to the account, Lloyds is required to provide Mrs B 
with reasonable notice, so that she can consider her options before Lloyds starts charging 
the monthly account fee. In this case, Lloyds has provided evidence to show that itd sent 
Mrs B the letter in June 2021, informing her of the fee-waiver removal. However, for some 
reason the fee-waiver removal did not happen until a year later, with the first monthly 
account fee being taken from the account in October 2022.
Lloyds says that due to the delay in the fee-waiver removal taking place on Mrs Bs account, 
a reminder was meant to have been sent to Mrs B prior to the monthly fee being charged in 
October 2022. Lloyds acknowledge that a reminder was not sent to Mrs B. As such, I do 
appreciate that it mayve come as a surprise to Mrs B when she saw the fee on her account 
in October 2022, given that the only letter sent out about this fee being applied was sent to 
her over 15 months beforehand.
To put matters right, Lloyds agreed to refund the account fee that had been charged in 
October and November 2022. It also agreed to cover the monthly account fees that were 
due to be applied to the account, up to February 2023. 
In my view this was reasonable, because it refunded the fees Mrs B had actually paid and 
also gave her a reasonable amount of time to consider her options, once she was aware that 
she could no longer have the Gold Service account for free. I also think this was fair as it meant that she was effectively able to have the Gold Service account, for free, up to 
February 2023  which is more than reasonable, bearing in mind that most Gold Service 
account holders (whod decided to keep the account) had been paying for the account since 
October 2021.
In addition to the refund of account fees, Lloyds also paid Mrs B a total of £115 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused to her by this matter, and also paid 
Mrs B £12 towards her phone costs. In my view, this reasonably reflected the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs B experienced in this matter, so again I think this award was reasonable.
Finally, I note that Mrs B has continued to pay the monthly account fee whilst awaiting the 
outcome of her complaint with our service. However, as I dont think that Lloyds has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in deciding to remove the fee-waiver from her account, and as the 
redress paid by Lloyds gave Mrs B plenty of time from when Lloyds responded to the 
complaint, to consider whether to continue with the account or not, I cant reasonably ask 
Lloyds to also refund the account fees Mrs B has paid since February 2023. 
So, when taking everything into account, I think that what Lloyds Bank PLC did to put 
matters right in this case was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do 
anything more than what it has already done, to put matters right in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman