DRN-2900309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complaint about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy that 
they say they were mis-sold by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
In 1995, Mr D took out an MPPI policy alongside the joint mortgage he had with Mrs D. The 
policy was amended in 2001, 2004 and 2008. Mrs D was added to the policy when it was 
amended in 2004.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D says that he seems to remember that he was under the impression that the MPPI was 
required in order to get the mortgage  but he hasnt provided much detail about this. 
NatWest hasnt been able to provide paperwork from the 1995 sale, or the subsequent 
amendment made in 2001. But this isnt unusual for sales that took place so long ago, and 
businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
NatWest has provided paperwork from the amendments in 2004 (when Mrs D was added to 
the policy) and 2008. This paperwork shows that Mr and Mrs D were provided with a choice 
in taking out the policy, and that they chose to do so.
So, with this in mind, I cant say that Mr D wasnt given a choice in taking out the original 
policy, or the first amendment  and I also think that when Mrs D was added to the policy, it 
was clear that they were given a choice to take MPPI. Had they been under the impression 
that the MPPI was compulsory prior to this, I also think that they couldve queried this in 
2004.
NatWest didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it didnt have to check if the 
original policy or subsequent amendments. But it did need to provide enough information for 
Mr and Mrs D to make up their own minds if they thought it was right for them. 
I think NatWest couldve explained the cost of the policy and amendments better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs D would still have taken the MPPI, given what I 
understand about their circumstances at the time, and the level of benefit provided.  
Its also possible NatWest didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But while I 
understand that Mrs D did have a medical condition, from what shes said, it doesnt seem 
that this affected her day to day living, so it seems unlikely that she wouldve needed to 
make a claim for the condition. And Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have been affected by any 
of the other exclusions. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ds comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
Other considerations
Ive also thought about whether NatWest needs to pay back Mr and Mrs D any of the 
commission they paid on the MPPI policies and amendments. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than
50% of the PPI premium.
NatWest has told us that the commission for the MPPI was less than half of what was paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  the commission was less than half the cost of the 
MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay any of the 
commission paid for the MPPI. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman