DRN-3571046
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T Pawnbrokers (H&T) 
sold items hed pawned without giving him notice of this. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr W pawned two items of jewellery as security for a loan. According to 
the contract he entered into at the time the repayment term was six months, after which point 
the items could be sold if full repayment was not made. The contract came to an end in June 
2020  during the pandemic when only essential travel was recommended and non-essential 
services were closed. Although, H&T was open during this time as it was considered an 
essential service due to the financial services provided.
Mr W said he visited branch on several occasions around July 2020. On one occasion he 
repaid a separate loan involving separate jewellery items, took back one item of jewellery 
and used the remaining items to start a new loan. He said he wouldve paid off the loan that 
forms part of this complaint and had the money available to do this, but staff told him as long 
as he hadnt received written notice his items were going to be sold he still had time to make 
repayment. He later told our service they also told him the loan would be automatically 
extended because of the pandemic. 
In September 2020, as full repayment had not been received, H&T placed Mr Ws items up 
for auction and they were sold. Mr W said H&T didnt give him written notice of this, and it 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence that it did. Mr W feels because he didnt receive 
this written notice, H&T has acted unfairly. He says he had the money available to repay the 
loan at all times and had he known the items were to be sold he wouldve repaid the loan 
and taken the jewellery back. I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and didnt 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and said:
The agreement Mr W entered into with H&T sets out that unless he redeemed his loan in full 
by 2 June 2020, the items he pledged became the property of H&T. It also sets out that the 
loan is still redeemable until the items are sold. H&T has shown me evidence that Mr Ws 
items were sold at auction on 4 September 2020 several months after the end of this loan 
and theres no dispute Mr W hadnt repaid it at this time.
But, in line with the terms of the loan agreement H&T was also required to give Mr W written 
notice his items were going to be resold. And although I asked it for evidence it did do this, 
its been unable to provide this. So, on balance, based on this and Mr Ws testimony it 
seems it didnt do this as it shouldve. Mr W said he visited branch several times in July 
2020. Hes said every time staff told him unless hed had written notice his items would be 
sold, they hadnt been so he didnt need to worry. And although theres no record of what he 
was told, I think he likely was told this. Its part of the terms of his loan so it stands to reason 
branch staff would confirm this information. So Ive considered overall whether or not I think 
H&T has acted reasonably in taking the action it did and selling Mr Ws items in September 
2020.
Where a business does make a mistake or fails in its obligations to its customers, its my role 
to consider whether or not I think this mistake has disadvantaged the customer or caused a 
loss. Mr W feels the only reason he didnt repay the loan is because he didnt receive this 
letter. Hes said hes always had the money to repay his loans in cash and he was simply 
waiting for the letter before he did this. So hes said this is the sole reason his jewellery has 
been sold and H&T needs to compensate him for this. But overall, Im not persuaded this is 
the case. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account:
Mr W has said hes always had the money available to repay this loan, he was just 
waiting for the letter from the business and not receiving this letter is the only reason 
it wasnt repaid. Ive asked Mr W for evidence he had the money available to repay 
the loan, but he hasnt been able to provide any evidence of this. Hes said its cash 
he keeps in a safe place and hasnt provided any details of where this money came 
from. Weve asked Mr W if there were any other substantial purchases he needed to 
make around this time or decided to make instead and hes said there was nothing 
else he bought instead. So I dont think Mr W has been able to provide sufficient 
evidence he had the funds available throughout as he says.
In July 2020 Mr W did visit branch and spoke to staff. The outcome of this visit was 
that he repaid a different loan, and re-pledged some of the jewellery to start a new 
one. Its not clear why he did this if he had over £1,200 available throughout that 
couldve been used to repay the loan that forms part of this complaint as he says he 
did.
Mr W has said he was told his loan had been automatically extended due to the 
pandemic which is why he didnt need to take action. But I think this is unlikely in the 
circumstances. H&T has confirmed it didnt have any policy in place at the time that 
would automatically extend loans  and loans could always be extended at the 
customers request anyway, with new terms and interest payments put in place. This 
is a process Mr W always couldve followed, so its not clear why H&T would need a 
separate policy during the pandemic, when it was open, to allow this and I think its 
unlikely Mr W was told this had happened. I accept it might be the case that there 
was a conversation around the fact the jewellery wouldnt be immediately sold. And 
the jewellery wasnt sold until September 2020  three months after the agreement 
ended. So this wouldve been accurate at the time. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr W was led to believe his jewellery would be kept for him indefinitely.
Mr W has said he wanted to extend his loan but couldnt because the branch was 
closed during the pandemic. But H&T branches were open as they were considered 
an essential financial service. They were also contactable over the phone and online 
throughout this period. Mr W also visited branch in July 2020 when he couldve 
repaid or extended the loan and chose not to. I think its clear that in July 2020 Mr W 
knew that H&T was still offering new loans, and that loans could be repaid at that 
point.
Mr W has said he was told by branch staff he couldnt extend his loan without the 
notice his items were due to be sold but I dont think this seems plausible. It might be 
that Mr W needed his agreement, or details of the items hed pledged in order to 
repay the interest and extend the loan, but he shouldve already had this information 
and has sent it to our service, so Im confident this was available to him.  It also 
seems strange that, if he had the money to repay the loan in full, and had nothing 
else he needed to spend the money on as hes said, he wouldve opted to pay more 
interest. I would also point out that despite his agreement having come to an end in June 
2020, in the following three months Mr W couldve still repaid the loan or tried to 
extend it at any point, and it doesnt appear he tried to do this. And whilst I 
understand he may have been waiting for 14 days notice of the sale, I think it ought 
to have seemed odd to him that he didnt hear anything for so many months and just 
expected that his jewellery would be held for him despite him not paying anything 
towards keeping it.
Its clear there has been some confusion in this case. And whilst I can see H&T has failed Mr 
W in not sending him formal notice of his items being sold, essentially, I dont think Ive seen 
sufficient evidence that this letter not being sent is the reason Mr W didnt repay the loan 
before the jewellery was sold. I dont think the evidence hes provided or his actions reflect 
this and I think there have been some inconsistencies in his testimony. Overall, I dont think 
H&T not sending Mr W the notice letter has prevented him from repaying this loan.
I understand the jewellery had sentimental value and was important to Mr W. But I can see 
the items were sold at auction for more than the amount Mr W owed under the agreement he 
entered into so it appears the sale was handled reasonably. H&T has confirmed it has 
written to him to confirm there is a surplus of £212.50 for him to collect and he can go to his 
local branch with this letter to collect it. 
Neither H&T or Mr W responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party in this case had responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from my findings set out above. I dont think H&Ts error prevented Mr W from 
repaying his loan and securing the return of his jewellery so I dont think it needs to 
compensate him. It seems there is a surplus for Mr W to collect from H&T and he should 
take the letter it has sent him confirming this to branch so he can collect this amount.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman