DRN-4305479
The complaint
Mr B complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) delayed returning his money
following his withdrawal requests. He says RateSetter misled him regarding how withdrawal
requests would be processed, and he feels it unfairly reinvested his investment repayments.
Mr B also complains that RateSetter unfairly reduced his interest returns on his investments.
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by a third party 
(TP) in September 2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately 
throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio -
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had 
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments.
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter has explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Mr B requested to make a full withdrawal from his accounts between June and September
2020.In October 2020 Mr B complained to RateSetter as he was unhappy with the time it
was taking to complete these withdrawals. He said he lost around £800 from his withdrawal
request from his investments in the five year market as his request was not being processed
as previously advised by RateSetter. He said RateSetter diverted around £800 into his
Access product account and reinvested rather than releasing this money to him.
RateSetter considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. RateSetter said Mr Bs
reinvestment settings for his investments in the five year market in his Everyday Account
had not changed since May 2018 and as these were set to reinvest his repayments into the
Access product account, his repayments had been reinvested in line with these settings.
RateSetter also said that in September 2019, prior to the launch of its Access, Plus and Max
products, it had sent emails informing investors how the new products would
operate and updated the investor terms in accordance to the new products. It said if
customers were unhappy with their funds being continuously reinvested they could have
continued to invest in the one and five year products where an investor can amend the
settings to send funds to the holding account once repayments are made. RateSetter also
made Mr B aware that he was unable to release loan contracts with a value of less than £10
in line with the Investor Terms and that his withdrawal requests were in a queue to be
released which was subject to the liquidity in the market at the time.
Mr B remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so he referred his complaint to this
Service for an independent review. He said that the key product info for his account made it
clear that reinvestment would stop once a withdrawal request was made.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mr Bs concerns and originally upheld the
complaint but later revised her view based upon new information provided by RateSetter. In
summary, she said:
Auto-reinvesting during a period of low demand, like during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
meant Mr Bs money was effectively trapped on the platform. She felt Mr B had given 
a clear instruction that he didnt want to continue investing on the platform and by 
leaving auto-reinvest on RateSetter unfairly prevented him from ending his contract. 
So she felt Mr B should be compensated for this.
She was satisfied that RateSetters Investor Terms gave it a broad discretion to 
introduce the Stabilisation Period.
She was persuaded that RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period 
was fair, and consistent with maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate above 100% to 
ensure continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio.
RateSetter had accepted that it delayed providing all available evidence for the 
complaint and had it not done so, she wouldnt have reached the same outcome as 
he did in her initial opinion. She said RateSetter had offered £250 in recognition for 
the unnecessary delay caused and any distress and inconvenience caused by this, 
which she felt was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties didnt agree with the investigators findings.
In summary, Mr B said that RateSetter seems to be trying to re-define the meaning around
the statement products will automatically invest until you want to withdraw. He also said its
unfair for RateSetter to take lenders money for the Provision Fund rather than using its
discretion to return it in some way.
RateSetter said that by reinvesting Mr Bs funds, he didnt lose out as he continued to earninterest on his investments in line with the rate he had specifically selected in his account
settings. RateSetter had reviewed Mr Bs account and noted he was actively releasing his
funds once the repayments were occurring and so he was aware that he could manually
release the funds as repayments were made into his holding account. RateSetter said Mr Bs
funds invested in the five year market were released on 2 September 2020 and his funds in
his Access Account on 30 December 2020 amounting to around £3,500 which evidences he
was actively withdrawing repayments as and when they were made.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023, which I include below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Withdrawal delays and auto-reinvestment
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy with the amount of time it took for RateSetter to complete
his withdrawal requests and that this was due, in part, to the reinvestment of his funds.
However, having reviewed the information provided to him at the time of investing on the
platform, Im satisfied RateSetter made him aware that his ability to withdraw from the
investment was dependent on liquidity of the market he was invested in.
Some platforms (including RateSetter) have put in place secondary markets that allow
investors to sell their loan parts to other investors in order to withdraw funds. There is no
regulatory requirement on platforms to have this facility available. And it follows that there
are no rules dictating how these secondary markets should be run. Ultimately, how
RateSetter decided to process withdrawal requests was a commercial decision which its
entitled to make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether
Mr B has been treated unfairly as a result of that decision.
RateSetters Investor Terms explained:
8.3. If your funds have already been matched to a loan contract, you can only
withdraw them using the Release Investment function detailed below.9. The Release Investment function
9.1. Once your funds are matched and a loan contract is formed, you may be able to
withdraw matched funds before they are repaid by the borrower by using the
Release Investment function, but this will only be possible where there are sufficient
funds available in the market. We may temporarily suspend your ability to use this
function in order to manage supply and demand on the platform.
Taking into account the above terms, I think RateSetter made Mr B aware that withdrawing
would only be possible where there were sufficient funds available in the market. RateSetter
has explained it received a larger number of requests to release funds during the onset of
the Covid-19 pandemic which, in turn reduced liquidity and increased queue times. Im also
aware that RateSetter did provide updates regarding withdrawal wait times on its website to
manage investors expectations.
I also understand that Mr B feels RateSetter shouldnt have continued to re-invest his money
once he had requested to fully withdraw from the platform. Ive thought very carefully about
this and on balance, I dont think RateSetter has acted unfairly.
RateSetter has explained that auto-reinvestment was a key feature of the investment
product, designed to re-invest continuously and carry on with existing loan contracts. The
Investor Terms explained how this would work:
7.3. Capital and interest will (subject to the amounts received reaching the minimum
offer amount of £10) be automatically reinvested into the same product in which you
initially invested, either at the Going Rate or at Your Rate.
So Im satisfied that RateSetter made Mr B aware in the Investor Terms that his money
would continue to be re-invested until he could fully withdraw. As Ive explained above, the
only way Mr B could access his funds was by requesting a release of his investment, which
was subject to liquidity. And as there was lower liquidity in the market and insufficient
number of investors willing to invest when he requested to withdraw, it took longer for the
withdrawal requests to take place and his money continued to be reinvested.
I appreciate that, by reinvesting Mr Bs money, it took longer for him to fully withdraw his
funds. Whilst I think it could be argued that RateSetter ought to have turned off auto
reinvestment, considering it was aware of the increase in demand to withdraw during the
Covid-19 pandemic, even if RateSetter had done so Im not persuaded Mr B would have
been in a better financial position. I say this as he continued to receive interest during this
period and had his money not been reinvested, he would have still had to wait some time for
his original withdrawal requests to complete. So hes essentially benefitted from interest he
wouldnt have been entitled to had RateSetter not continued to reinvest hid money. Its also 
not clear whether Mr B would have been able to make a greater investment return had he
invested his money elsewhere. As Mr B would have had to have waited until all his
investments had been released, I think its reasonable to suggest he wouldnt have received
all his money back in one lump sum so and so its difficult to say what he would have done 
each time he received some of his money back.
I also understand Mr B says the information RateSetter gave about the new products he
invested in was misleading. Specifically, he says the following statement regarding
reinvestment was misleading:
The new products will automatically reinvest until you want to withdraw.
I appreciate Mr Bs point here and I agree that the statement could have provided moreclarity regarding how reinvestment would continue to until an investor could withdraw rather
than when they want to withdraw. However, as Ive mentioned above, based on the all the
available evidence, Im not persuaded Mr B has lost out financially because of this. Im also
not persuaded Mr B wouldnt have continued to invest on the platform had the reinvestment
mechanisms been clarified further.
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
RateSetter has relied upon the following term which was in its Investor Terms to introduce
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expected
borrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.
While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Mr B fairly and acted
with his best interests in mind.
RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of risk
across the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It 
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was the
best action to take in these circumstances.
So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - andallowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
RateSetters delay in providing a full response
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr B by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period or the delay in withdrawing, I think this offer fairly
reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this information at the
earliest opportunity and for not following his reinvestment settings at all times.
Responses to my provisional decision
RateSetter didnt provide a response but Mr B did. In summary, he said:
RateSetter didnt follow its own Investor Terms as it continued to reinvest his funds 
despite him requesting to withdraw. 
My provision decision seems to turn on whether or not he lost out financially by being 
denied access to his money. He argues that he could have made a greater financial 
return investing in other products, such as a tracker funds which could have provided 
a return of around 20-50%.
My provisional decision assumes that his reinvested funds were invested in loans 
which didnt fail. But if they had failed, he would have lost out financially.  
He gave evidence that RateSetter were reinvesting his funds into loans with borrower 
APRs of around 20%, whilst he was only receiving a target interest rate of 3%. He 
said this illustrates that he was being invested into risky loans whilst RateSetter 
earned a risk-free high return.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think this complaint should not be upheld for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision. 
I hope Mr B doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission or 
every point he has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to explain 
my findings on what I consider to be the key issues. 
In my provisional findings I said I felt RateSetter ought to have made it clearer how auto-
reinvestment would work but I didnt think Mr B had lost out financially as a result of this. I 
understand Mr B says he would have invested in other investment products which would 
have provided him with a greater return. I appreciate Mr Bs point here, but I have to make 
my decision without the benefit of hindsight. If Mr B had a clear alternative investment 
strategy I would have expected him to have provided evidence of this. Mr B hasnt provided 
with any evidence to show he invested any released funds into such products or had 
intended to do so, as such, Im not persuaded to change my findings.
Im also not persuaded Mr B wouldnt have invested with RateSetter had it made it clearer to 
him initially how auto-reinvestment would work. I say this as it appears Mr B had previously benefited from the auto-reinvestment feature and that hes only found reason to complain 
when its prevented him from withdrawing during a period of economic uncertainty.
Ive also considered Mr Bs points regarding RateSetter exposing him to too much risk 
through auto-reinvesting his funds and that RateSetter unfairly benefited from this. As I 
explained in my provisional findings, the risk Mr B was exposed to by loans he had been re-
invested into was mutualised by virtue of the Provision Fund. And so, I dont agree that 
RateSetters actions exposed him to a higher risk than that he was accustomed to through 
investing on the platform. I appreciate Mr B has referred to evidence which shows his funds 
being lent to a borrower with an APR of 19%, which he thinks demonstrates his funds being 
matched to risky loan which he only received only 3% on this particular loan. However, its 
important to understand that the both rates aren't all about risk. As Ive explained, Mr Bs 
matched rate of 3% isn't just about the risk of the loan defaulting, but also includes the fact 
that his risk is mutualised by virtue of the Provision Fund. Also, the 20% borrower rate is 
actually mostly fees which includes payments to the Provision Fund. 
So having considered all of Mr Bs further submissions, Im not persuaded to change my 
provisional findings. 
Putting things right
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr B by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint, which I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Retail Money Market Ltd must pay Mr B £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman