DRN-2598253
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint about Creation Financial Services Limited (CFS) relates to a missed 
payment on her account by virtue of a Direct Debit (DD) being cancelled by CFS under what 
it said was its Dormancy Rules.
What happened
Mrs P had a credit card with CFS and received a notification from the Rewards Points 
provider IHG that she would need to make a transaction on her card in order to avoid losing 
her rewards points. So, in August 2020 she made a small transaction in the belief that the 
DD she had set up on her account would be used to collect payment. 
In October Mrs P was notified by CFS that shed missed a payment on her account and as a 
result had incurred late payment fees and interest. Additionally, the late payment had been 
recorded on her credit file. CFS explained that the DD had been cancelled because there 
hadnt been any activity on the account for over 12 months. And CFS said it had notified Mrs 
P of that in February 2020.
Mrs P complained and CFS said it hadnt done anything wrong but agreed to refund the late 
payment fee and interest as a goodwill gesture. But it said it couldnt remove the late 
payment marker because it had been applied correctly and accurately reflected the facts.
Mrs P was unhappy with CFS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that CFS hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mrs P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of parts to Mrs Ps complaint which I shall deal with below, but many of 
the facts are accepted. Mrs P received a notification from IHG that she would need to use 
her card, or her rewards points would be lost. So, she used the card in August. She thought 
the DD was in place, but it wasnt. As a fact she missed a payment to her account, because 
she didnt know the DD had been cancelled. Mrs P did receive a notification from CFS by 
email on 16 October to tell her that something had gone wrong and she was invited to make 
a payment or call CFS Customer Services.
CFS have supplied evidence in the form of screenshots showing Mrs Ps account settings 
which show that her account was set up for online statements as her preference. CFS have 
also provided evidence that shows her September statement was made available online on 
14 September and the October statement made available on 13 October. Both those 
statements were opened by Mrs P on 16 October. This demonstrates that Mrs P knew how 
to access her statements. I know Mrs P has raised concerns that CFS did not send 
statements by post or email, but this is not what her account was set up to do.
CFS has produced a screenshot of their system record showing that the DD was cancelled 
on 12 February 2020 and a letter sent to Mrs P the same day and to her correct address. I 
understand Mrs P has asked to see proof of postage and the contents of what was said. As I 
understand it there is no proof of postage but that does not mean that the letter was not sent. 
The best evidence I have is as I have described above and on the balance of probabilities I 
am satisfied that this was a letter sent to Mrs P advising her of the cancellation of the DD. I 
dont dispute Mrs P may not have received it but equally I cant say it wasnt sent. So, I cant 
say CFS have acted unfairly here because they did everything reasonably required to notify 
Mrs P of the cancellation of the DD.
Mrs P has queried why her account was not cancelled when the DD was cancelled. The 
reason is because those are two separate and distinct matters. CFS had given Mrs P a 
credit facility on the form of a credit card account and there is no reason to suggest that that 
facility should have been withdrawn. What was withdrawn was the DD and this is because 
CFS followed their own rules on the cancellation of DDs that hadnt been used for some 
time. Their policy, which they term the dormancy rule says that a DD should be cancelled if 
it hadnt been used for 12 months. Mrs P hadnt used her card in 12 months and so CFS 
followed its procedure which I think was reasonable and fair. 
I understand Mrs P has raised concerns that CFS were promoting spending on Mrs Ps card 
when they knew her DD had been cancelled. That is correct. But I dont think it unfair or 
unreasonable of CFS to advertise and promote spending on a customers account in this 
way. The fact that Mrs P did not have a DD set up does not detract from the principle that 
Mrs P was required to manage her account by ensuring payment either by DD or otherwise. 
Some customers prefer to manager their accounts without a DD and ultimately its a 
customers responsibility to ensure they make payments on time. So, promoting and 
advertising spending is not unfair.
Mrs P complains that after her missed payment CFS ought to have written to her, and I find 
that they did do so. After making the transaction in August CFS sent Mrs P her September 
statement on 14 September which told her that payment was due by 5 October.  When 
payment wasnt made it then sent another statement on 13 October telling her that she had 
missed a payment and then an email on 16 October telling her something had gone wrong 
and that she should get in touch. I dont see that CFS could have done any more. 
When CFS were told of Mrs Ps complaints it responded quite fairly and reasonably in my 
view. Even though it didnt believe it had acted unfairly it agreed to refund the late payment 
fee and interest which I think is very reasonable. On the issue of the late payment marker, 
CFS has a responsibility to record correctly the status of each customers account and is 
then obliged to report factual information to the credit reference agencies. In this case that is 
all it has done, and I therefore cant say it has acted unreasonably, and I am unable to 
recommend this be amended.
Finally, I shall deal with Mrs Ps complaint that CFS final response letter was not received by 
her within 8 weeks. She states she ought to have received the letter by 10 December but did 
not get it until 22 December although the letter was dated 10 December. Mrs P believes CFS 
may have backdated the letter but there is no evidence to support such a view. What is more 
likely is that there was a delay in Mrs P receiving the letter, which might well have something 
to do with the postal service and the time of year. On the evidence before me I can only find 
that the letter was generated and issued on 10 December and so I dont believe CFS has 
acted unfairly here either.
So, although Mrs P will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say CFS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman