DRN-2868406
The complaint
Mr S complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
transactions he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S said that on the evening of 1 January 2021, he tried to use his debit card at a cash 
machine outside an off-licence, but the screen went blank and retained his card. Mr S said 
he went home, and forgot about it. The next day, 2 January, he rang Halifax just after 2pm. 
He told Halifax that his card had been kept by the cash machine. He said hed now looked 
online and had seen that there had been some transactions he didnt recognise. 
A balance enquiry had been carried out on Mr Ss card at 00:32 am on 2 January. There had 
then been eight disputed transactions, totalling £9,821.60. These were timed from 10:47 am 
on 2 January to 11:16 am, and were for:
- a payment to a retailer for £9,104.70;
- three cash withdrawals at a supermarket cash machine, totalling £500;
- three payments for petrol.
All of these were authenticated using chip and PIN for Mr Ss genuine card.
Halifax refused to refund Mr S. It said there had been no compromise of Mr Ss PIN and no-
one else had access to authorise the payments. Halifax also pointed out that despite the 
balance enquiry at 00:32 am, there were no attempts to access the money until 10:47. It said 
it wouldnt be usual for a fraudster to wait over 10 hours before taking out available money.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told our investigator that he hadnt 
contacted the off-licence to ask about his card being retained at its cash machine. Hed 
made payments before to the retailer where the £9,000 transaction had taken place, but 
hadnt contacted them to ask about the payment. Mr S said he hadnt lost his phone or card, 
and hadnt given his security details to anyone else. He told the investigator that the PIN 
couldnt easily be guessed and wasnt written down. He suggested a fraudster could have 
used a hidden camera to find out his details.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that it wasnt the usual pattern for a 
fraudster to have carried out a balance enquiry at 00:32 but then to have waited till 10:47 to 
start the disputed transactions. And a large credit of £6,215.49 had come into Mr Ss account 
on 30 December  just before the date of the disputed transactions. Mr S told the 
investigator no-one else knew about the credit. The investigator thought that Mr S either 
carried out the transactions himself, or allowed someone else to use his card to make them.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said Halifax hadnt phoned him to ask about the largest 
transaction and asked if it was an inside job.  He said the card had gone into the cash 
machine and not come out, so it wasnt fair that he was being blamed. Mr S said the 
investigator couldnt just say that because of the £6,215.49 credit, someone must have 
known. He said hed asked the investigator if he should get evidence from the retailer and 
the police, but she had said no. He said it wasnt fair to come to a conclusion without proof. 
He said he had never been to the branch of the retailer where the largest disputed 
transaction took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations about disputed payments. The relevant regulations for disputed 
transactions taking place in January 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Halifax has provided the computerised 
evidence which proves that Mr Ss genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were 
used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder 
authorised the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them, or if he allowed someone 
else to do so. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep 
their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
So Ive considered who was more likely than not to have carried out the eight disputed 
transactions.
Who carried out the disputed transactions?
If a third party fraudster carried out the eight disputed transactions, theyd first have had to:
- obtain Mr Ss genuine card; and
- find out Mr Ss correct PIN, which he said couldnt be guessed and wasnt written 
down.
Theres no clear way in which a fraudster could have done either of these:
- Mr S said the card was retained by the cash machine on 1 January. So it hadnt, for 
example, been stolen from him on his way home, and I cant see how a fraudster 
could have obtained the card. The computer records show that the genuine card, 
with its genuine chip, was used for all eight disputed transactions;
-
- If Mr S hadnt written down his PIN and it couldnt be guessed, theres no obvious 
way for it to have been compromised. Mr S has suggested a hidden camera, 
presumably on the cash machine. This isnt impossible if Mr S didnt hide the PIN as 
he was entering it - but the PIN number alone wouldnt have been any use without 
the card, which Mr S said was inside the machine. 
And I consider its highly unlikely that any fraudster, who did somehow obtain Mr Ss genuine 
card and correct PIN, would have found out just after midnight that there was over £9,000 in 
the account  but then waited ten hours before trying to steal the money. It just isnt the 
pattern of a typical fraud, because the fraudster would want to maximise the gain, before the 
account holder could notify their bank and put a block on the account.
Ive also borne in mind that Mr S didnt tell Halifax that his card had been retained by the 
cash machine until after 2 pm on the day after it happened. He told the investigator that he forgot about the card when he got home. If a card had genuinely been retained by a cash 
machine, I think its more likely than not that an account holder would have reported it more 
quickly than that. This was particularly the case when he was presumably trying to get cash 
out of the machine, but none was dispensed. Id have expected most people to have 
complained promptly if they couldnt get the cash they wanted.
Ive also seen that an unusually large sum of money, over £6,000, had been paid into his 
account only a couple of days before, on 30 December. This brought the balance to a higher 
level than Mr S had previously had in at least the previous year. His account had generally 
been in debit during 2020, going into credit in September when a number of irregular 
payments credited the account, but none of these credits was as high as the 30 December 
credit. I think that a customer who knew his balance was so much higher than usual, would 
have quickly queried why a cash machine had retained his card. 
Ive also looked at the transactions. The largest one, for £9,104.70, was made to a retailer 
which Mr S had used fourteen times since January 2018. Mr S told us he hadnt used that 
branch  but its still a coincidence that any fraudster would have used the same retailer as 
Mr S frequently used.
I note that Mr S said that he didnt receive a call from Halifax asking him whether or not the 
£9,104.70 transaction was genuine. But this isnt an essential part of a security system  
and, much more importantly, the transaction had been verified using the genuine card and 
correct PIN.
For all these reasons, I find that its much more likely than not that it wasnt a third party 
fraudster who carried out the transactions. I consider its most likely that Mr S carried out the 
disputed transactions himself, or provided his card and security information to someone else, 
which counts as Mr S authorising the transactions. So I dont require Halifax to refund Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman