DRN-3910345
The complaint
Mr H complains about the difficulties he had trying to contact Virgin Money Unit Trust 
Managers Ltd (VM). 
When Mr H contacted VM it was about both his and his wifes individual pension plans and 
ISAs. But Ive omitted references to any account held with VM by Mr Hs wife as the 
complaints she has made about her contact with VM are being dealt with separately. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
relevant key events here. 
Mr H had a personal pension plan (PPP) and an individual savings account (ISA) with VM. 
Mr H phoned VM at the end of October 2021 to discuss his PPP but was placed in a phone 
queue. Mr H remained in the queue for 15 minutes before ending the call. He then emailed 
VM on the same day and said it was not acceptable that he had to wait for some time in a 
phone queue. He asked VM to arrange for an adviser to call him. 
VM responded the following day by email and apologised for the delays with answering the 
phone. It said it couldnt get an adviser to call him back due to the volume of calls it was 
dealing with.  
Mr H submitted a complaint to VM on the same day. He said:  
It was unacceptable that he couldnt speak to an adviser or manage his funds online. 
Hed been waiting on hold for 15 minutes the previous day.
He wanted to make an internal fund switch but couldnt speak to anyone or do that 
online. As a result, he lost money as gilt values had increased. 
VM should refund the fund value difference and the cost of unanswered phone calls.  
Mr H telephoned VM on 4 November 2021 and switched 100% of his Pension Global Share 
fund into the Pension Bond and Gilt fund. 
Mr H contacted VM several times over the following months to check whether VM was 
dealing with his complaint. 
He also rang VM on 14 January 2022 and switched 100% of the funds held in the Pension 
Growth fund into the Pensions Bond and Gilt fund. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this Service in February 2022. He raised a number of 
complaint points, and those relevant to this particular complaint are listed below. Mr H 
complained about: 
   
The lengthy call waiting times and the cost of those calls. 
A VM adviser told him in January 2022 that he would get a call back about his 
complaint, but this didnt happen. 
Not being able to make changes to his account online, which he felt meant his funds 
lost value on two occasions when he wanted to carry out internal fund switches. 
VM were in breach of its own complaint procedure, as it didnt respond to the 
complaint within four weeks.
VM responded to Mr Hs complaint in March 2022. It acknowledged the lack of 
communication in relation to Mr Hs complaint and offered him £50 by way of an apology. In 
relation to call waiting times, it said it was dealing with a high volume of calls, which caused 
delays. It suggested that Mr H could call it back at a less busy time. VM said it didnt offer a 
call back service and said it would not backdate the value of Mr Hs fund switch. 
VM also said that, due to the nature of pensions, Mr H could view and top up pension 
investments online but could not make withdrawals, switch funds or transfer his pension in 
that way. It said its contact centre could help, or it could be contacted by post. 
 
Our Investigator then looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Mr H raised 
multiple points that related to how VM operated and said this Service didnt have the power 
to tell a business how to operate. He also said several complaint points related to VMs 
handling of Mr Hs complaint, and this wasnt something this Service could look into, as 
complaint handling was not a regulated activity. 
Our Investigator also said that the call wait times, provided by Mr H, werent excessive or 
unusual. Our Investigator said the fund switches requested by Mr H  from one VM fund to 
another  were completed on the same day he spoke to the agents. So they were completed 
without delay when VM received the request and so VM werent responsible for any 
difference in fund values. Our Investigator also noted Mr H had received transfer out 
paperwork from VM in around December 2021, as hed requested. 
Mr H didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. I 
contacted Mr H to let him know that any complaint points about the transfer of his VM 
pension to another provider would be dealt with separately, as part of his other complaint 
currently with this Service about VM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to first of all be clear about what Im looking at here. When Mr H complained to VM 
back in October 2021, his complaint was about the length of time he had to wait while trying 
to contact VM by phone and the cost he incurred as a result. At that time, Mr H also 
complained about what he saw as VMs failure to adhere to its own complaint processes, 
and that he wasnt able to manage his pension funds online. These are the complaint points 
that VM responded to when it provided a final response to Mr Hs complaint in March 2022. 
So its these points that I will address in this decision. 
Mr H subsequently complained about the difficulties he says hes had trying to transfer his 
pension funds from VM to another provider. That complaint is being dealt with separately, so 
Ive not addressed it here. 
I know that Mr H is concerned about how VM handled the complaint he made to it in October 
2021. He thought VM had breached its own complaint guidelines by not providing a formal 
response to his complaint quickly enough, and he said VM didnt call him back to discuss the complaint, as it said it would. However, I am not able to look into how VM handled Mr Hs 
complaint. 
To explain further, this Service cannot look at every complaint brought to us. Broadly 
speaking, we can only look into complaints about activities that are regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules outline what 
activities fall within this services jurisdiction (DISP 2.3). Complaint handling is not one of the 
activities listed. So, as I said, I am not able to look into the points raised by Mr H about VMs 
handling of the complaint made by him in October 2021. This means I am also unable to 
look at whether the £50 compensation offered by VM is fair. 
Mr H also complained about call waiting times. He tried to phone VM at the end of October 
2021 so that he could carry out an internal fund switch. When the call wasnt answered after 
around 15 minutes, he contacted VM by email instead. I know that Mr H feels strongly that 
phone calls should be answered more promptly  he said this is an issue for VM to address, 
that it doesnt have enough staff to answer the higher demand in calls. But while it was 
longer than Mr H would have liked, I dont think 15 minutes was an unreasonably, or an 
unusually, long time to wait.
In any event, its not the role of our Service to tell a business how it should operate or what 
its business practices should be, including staffing levels at call centres. That is the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So I wont be telling VM to make any changes 
to how it manages the telephone service it provides, including that it is consumers, rather 
than VM, who pay for telephone calls to it.  
Mr H also complained about not being able to manage his funds online. From what I can 
see, at the point in time that he made the complaint VM did not allow consumers to make 
withdrawals, switch funds or transfer pension funds online. Contact had to be made either by 
telephone or post. I know that Mr H is eager to be able to carry out, for instance, a fund 
switch quickly once he decides this is the right thing to do. Hes concerned that lengthier 
processes might result in fund values decreasing. 
It's important to note that, again, the way in which VM manages withdrawals and fund 
switches is a business decision that this Service wont interfere with. In any event, I can see 
that when Mr H phoned VM on 4 November 2021 and again in January 2022, the VM 
advisor was able to arrange the fund switch immediately. 
I know that Mr H originally wanted to arrange the fund switch at the end of October 2021 but 
said he couldnt as he thought the waiting time to get through to VM by phone was too long.  
But as I say, the 15 minutes Mr H said he was kept waiting in a queue wasnt an 
unreasonably or unusually long time. And I think there were further steps Mr H could have 
taken in October 2021 if he was concerned to make the fund switch at that time. He could 
have persevered in the phone queue, or called back at a less busy time as VM suggested. 
So I am not going to ask VM to backdate the fund values to October 2021. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but I am not asking VM to take any further action in 
relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman