DRN-1550439
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) declined his claim for a 
refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a transaction he 
made in 1999. He also complains that Barclaycard sent him a letter in an unsealed 
envelope.
What happened
In 1999 Mr F bought some silver ingots as an investment. He paid over £4,000 for them with 
his Barclaycard credit card. It soon became apparent that he had been defrauded (and its 
not in dispute that this is the case). In 2001 he sold the ingots for their scrap value. In 2019 
he asked Barclaycard for a refund of his purchase under section 75. Barclaycard said he had 
left it too late, and so he brought this complaint to our Service. He also complained that 
Barclaycard had sent him its final response letter in an unsealed envelope, and that 
everyone in his house had read it, causing him embarrassment. He said this was a breach of 
confidentiality.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She agreed with Barclaycard that it was too 
late for Mr F to bring a claim under section 75. She said the letter had been addressed to 
Mr F only.
Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision. He referred to a consumer advice website which 
said that there is no time limit for bringing a claim under section 75, only for bringing a claim 
through the courts. Since he hadnt taken Barclaycard to court, there was no applicable time 
limit. He also said he hadnt known about section 75 until recently. He also argued that 
anyone who had been defrauded should be able to get their money back, as this was only 
fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to credit card transactions, section 75 says that if [a credit card holder] has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the [credit card], any claim against the supplier [of 
goods or services] in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the [credit card provider] (emphasis added).
This means that if Mr F had a claim against the fraudster, he could bring a like claim  that 
is, a claim for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the fraudster  against 
Barclaycard as well, or instead. But any claim against Barclaycard would still be subject to 
the same time limit as a claim against the fraudster. Under the Limitations Act 1980, this is 
six years from the breach or misrepresentation (not counting any time when Mr F was 
unaware of it and could not with reasonable diligence have discovered it).
Its true that there is no time limit on customers asking Barclaycard for a refund. But 
Barclaycard is entitled to refuse to give a refund if it could not be held liable, under section 
75, for what the fraudster did. And I would not consider it to be fair or reasonable of me to 
interfere with that decision, and to tell Barclaycard to refund Mr F in circumstances where 
section 75 did not compel it to.
I dont think its good enough to send a final response letter in an unsealed envelope, as this 
could be intercepted, and the contents will usually be confidential. However, I have read the 
letter in question and it contains nothing particularly sensitive. So although I think 
Barclaycard made an administrative error in how it handled Mr Fs claim, I dont think this 
rises to the level where financial compensation would be appropriate in this instance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman