DRN-3215160
The complaint
Ms W complains (through a representative) Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt properly carry 
out affordability checks before it granted Ms W with her loans. Had it done so, Ms W says it 
wouldve discovered she was in a debt spiral.
 
What happened
Ms W took five loans between April 2018 and May 2019 Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 27/04/2018 11/12/2018 33 £15.00
2 £300.00 10/09/2018 26/02/2019 33 £15.00
3 £300.00 11/12/2018 24/05/2019 33 £15.00
4 £600.00 26/02/2019 13/08/2019 33 £30.00
5 £400.00 23/05/2019 10/04/2020 33 £20.00
The statement of account provided to this Service from Morses shows that Ms W had 
problems repaying her final loan and it passed the outstanding balance to a debt collection 
agency in April 2020.
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be more. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running Ms Ws 
weekly commitment was £30. 
Morses considered Ms Ws complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter. 
Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved 
these loans for Ms W. 
Ms W didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and her representative referred the 
complaint to our Service in June 2021. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for Morses to 
have granted loans 1 - 4. But the adjudicator thought that by loan 5 Ms W had showed signs 
that she had struggled to pay previous loans. This was now the third time that Ms W had 
repaid a previous loan by taking out new lending. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It explained that the debt collector had 
written off the balance of £260. Morses said this was the interest balance and so there 
wasnt any refund due to be paid to Ms W. 
The adjudicator contacted Ms Ws representative to let them know Morses had agreed with 
his recommendation. 
Ms Ws representative told us Ms W  is disputing the assessment and offer. But, no 
further reasons as to why Ms W was unhappy with the proposed settlement have been 
provided. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms 
Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms W. These factors include:
Ms W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms W.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ws complaint.
I wont make a finding about loan 5, because Morses has already agreed that something 
went wrong when this loan was approved. I appreciate Ms W says shes not happy with the 
settlement but she hasnt provided any further details as to why. For completeness, Ive included what Morses needs to do to put things right for Ms W in 
relation to loan 5 at the end of this decision. 
Ms W also says she was disputing the assessment, so from this Ive inferred that shes 
unhappy the adjudicator didnt uphold further loans. So instead, Ive focussed below on what 
happens when loans 1  4 were granted. 
Loans 1 - 4
Ms W says she was disputing the assessment. But she hasnt told this Service exactly what 
she was unhappy about and why. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint about these loans, and I agree with him, 
based on the evidence that Ive seen from both Morses and Ms W.  
For these loans Ms W declared she had a weekly income of between £380 and £500. And 
her declared weekly expenditure was between £120 and £156. 
Based on the information Ms W declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given 
this was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did were 
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to these loans. 
Ive also thought about that some of these loans overlapped but even considering the higher 
weekly repayments as a result of this, the loans still looked affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint about loans 1 - 4.
Loan 5
As I said at the start of the decision, I wont comment further on whether Morses was right or 
wrong to approve this loan because it has already accepted that something did go wrong 
when it was advanced. So, there is nothing further for me to decide in relation to this loan. 
Ms W says that she was disputing the settlement but didnt say what part of the settlement 
she was unhappy with or why she disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. What I 
would say, is that Morses has agreed to settle this loan in line with the well-established 
approach this Service takes when resolving cases about unaffordable lending. 
Morses has said, that the balance was written off  because what was owed was only 
interest, that it now accepts shouldnt need to be repaid. This means Ms W wont owe any 
more money towards this loan, but it also means she wont receive a refund either. In my 
view, this is entirely fair and reasonable. 
The approach to compensation is well established, and I dont see any reason in this case to 
depart from this approach. And as Morses has agreed to settle the case in line with the 
adjudicators assessment I dont think it needs to do any more.  
I acknowledge that Ms W is likely to be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope my 
explanation has provided useful as to why Ive reached the conclusions that I have. Putting things right
Morses has already accepted that loan 5 shouldnt have been provided and Ive outlined 
below what it has already agreed to do to put things right for Ms W. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms W 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Morses may have already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms W. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in 
relation to loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms W as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman