DRN-3875094
The complaint
Miss M is represented by one of the attorneys she has appointed to act on her behalf and 
also by a professional representative. Through her representatives, Miss M complains she 
was mis-sold a lifetime mortgage with a reserve facility by Aviva Life Services UK Limited in 
2009.
The representatives have complained about the way the lifetime mortgage and reserve were 
sold to Miss M. They say there was a lack of due care and attention when considering      
Miss Ms options and they feel the reserve was unnecessary and the amount approved was 
excessive. They also say Miss M was vulnerable at the time of the advice and had been 
targeted by a fraudster who she went on to pay and lose the entire reserve balance to.
What happened
In January 2009, Miss M met with an adviser from Aviva, then Norwich Union, to discuss 
releasing some money from her property which had an estimated value of around £550,000.
A Fact Find document was completed and it was established that Miss M had a negative net 
disposal income of around £704 a month and she wanted to generate a lump sum of 
£80,000. The notes say the lump sum was required to repay various debts and liabilities, to 
cover the cost of restoring artwork and to provide a holiday fund. It also detailed that Miss M 
didnt want to move home and she didnt expect an inheritance.
In January 2009, the Aviva adviser provided Miss M with a letter setting out the 
recommendation being made and the reasons for doing so. The adviser recommended a 
lifetime mortgage with the loan amount of £80,000 and a cash reserve option of £129,000, 
which I understand was Avivas standard maximum based on the value of Miss Ms property.
Aviva says the offer documents were sent to Miss Ms solicitor and she was asked to make 
an appointment to discuss this with them. I understand the reserve amount was increased to 
£148,000 because the estimated value of Miss Ms property had increased. I can see Miss M 
signed the loan agreement on 2 February 2009 which enabled the loan to proceed 
On 2 April 2009 the lifetime mortgage completed with a loan amount of £80,000 with an 
interest rate of 6.99% per annum compound and a reserve facility of £148,000. Miss M could 
apply to use the reserve balance without further approval.
Between May and October 2009, Miss M made various drawdowns on the reserve until the 
maximum amount of £148,000 was exhausted. Miss Ms representatives say Miss M had 
been targeted by a fraudster who she paid and lost all of the funds to. They say this was a 
well-known advance fee inheritance scam.
Miss Ms representatives complained to Aviva that the lifetime mortgage and reserve facility 
had been mis-sold to Miss M because it wasnt suitable for her. They also complained that a 
lack of suitable controls meant she was able to continue to draw down funds from the 
reserve when there were warning signs of her being subject to fraudulent activity.
Aviva separated the complaint points and responded with two separate final response 
letters. Avivas final response letter dated February 2021 addressed the concerns raised 
about various drawdowns on the reserve facility. In summary, it said that it wasnt until after 
the reserve funds had been exhausted that it became concerned and involved its fraud team 
who contacted the Police. It felt it had acted accordingly and didnt uphold the complaint.
Avivas final response letter dated April 2021 addressed the concerns raised about the 
suitability of the advice given in 2009 to take out the lifetime mortgage with the reserve. In 
summary, it felt its recommendation was suitable given Miss Ms circumstances at the time. 
It was satisfied the documentation given to Miss M, which it said was subsequently 
discussed with her solicitor, clearly explained the terms and conditions of the loan, how the 
interest was applied and the potential charges if the loan was repaid early. It was also 
satisfied alternative ways of raising the money had been discussed. 
Unhappy with Avivas responses, Miss Ms complaint was referred to our service.
One of our investigators looked into whether we can consider the complaint. In summary, he 
felt the complaint points addressed in the final response letter dated February 2021, 
concerning the various drawdowns on the reserve, werent referred to us within the relevant 
time limit rules, so we are unable to investigate these points. However, he was satisfied that 
we could consider the complaint points addressed in the final response letter dated         
April 2021, which concerned the suitability of the advice given in 2009  because this part of 
the complaint was referred to us before the expiry of the relevant time limit.
Another investigator also agreed we couldnt consider the complaint points addressed in the 
final response letter dated February 2021 and he went on to consider Miss Ms complaint 
about the advice given in 2009, which he didnt think should be upheld. In summary, he 
didnt think the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold or that there was any evidence that Miss M 
was vulnerable or lacked capacity to understand the implications of the contract.
Miss Ms representatives have accepted Miss Ms complaint about the drawdowns on the 
reserve wasnt referred to us within the relevant time limit rules, so I wont be considering 
this in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms representatives have provided detailed submissions and Ive read these carefully, 
but I dont intend to set it all out in my decision. No discourtesy is intended by that, it simply 
reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Instead, my decision will concentrate 
on the issues I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. But Id like to reassure them 
Ive carefully considered everything thats been said.Miss Ms representatives have told us that Miss M wasnt likely in good health and she was 
vulnerable at the time of the advice. Importantly, they say she was the victim of an advance 
fee scam which involved her making payments to a fraudster to release an inheritance which 
didnt exist. They believe the fraudster had already contacted Miss M by the time of advice 
and Miss M had told the adviser she was expecting a substantial inheritance from a Costa 
Rican relative. They feel this is a well-known scam and the information provided should have 
raised the advisers suspicion that something might be wrong.
Ive thought very carefully about the concerns raised about Miss Ms health and vulnerability. 
However, I havent seen any medical evidence to show Miss M lacked capacity to enter into 
the agreement. Miss M was required to obtain independent legal advice specifically to check 
she understood what she was agreeing to and I havent seen any evidence which suggests 
her solicitor raised any concern about her vulnerability or capacity to enter into the 
agreement at the time.
Nevertheless, I have seen evidence which indicates Miss M was unfortunately the victim of a 
scam and I understand she funded the payments made towards the scam using the          
pre-approved reserve facility. Given the drawdowns on the reserve were made soon after 
mortgage completed, I agree that its likely that Miss M had been contacted by a fraudster by 
the time of advice.
Ive therefore gone on to think about whether the adviser was given any information which 
should have made him aware or suspect that something might be wrong at the time of 
advice.  
I cant be certain about exactly what was discussed at the time of sale. However, Ive 
reviewed the point-of-sale documentation from 2009. These documents were completed at 
the time of advice, so they should reflect what was said and agreed at that time. Having 
reviewed this documentation, I havent seen anything to show there was any discussion 
about the expected inheritance or the need for funds to pay any fees or charges in 
connection with the scam.
Notably, in the Fact Find document, the wording None Expected is recorded next to the 
heading Inheritance.
Further, the following is detailed in the Suitability Letter: 
You do not expect to receive an inheritance in the near future
This indicates a discussion did take place with the adviser about inheritance, but Miss M said 
she didnt expect to receive an inheritance.
I would expect any discussion about a substantial inheritance to have been detailed in the 
point of sale documentation. I would especially expect this to have been mentioned in the 
letter setting out the advisers recommendation, which included specific information about 
Miss Ms circumstances at that time. Given the absence of any record of this being 
discussed, Im unable to conclude that it was.
I understand that its common in this type of scam for the fraudster to emphasise the need 
for secrecy and to warn their intended victim not to tell anyone else about what was 
happening. This may explain why Miss M doesnt appear to have discussed her expected 
inheritance with the adviser at that time. But if that was the case, it would mean it wasnt 
something the adviser could reasonably have been aware of or taken into account.Ive also noted that not only was the inheritance scam not recorded, Miss M did give reasons 
for wanting the funds which were not related to the scam. Those reasons which were 
detailed, were plausible and not unusual in the context of an equity release application  with 
the exception of the artwork. But since it was recorded that the artwork was of particular 
significance to Miss M, with some detail about what it was, I think its likely that was 
information Miss M gave to the broker at the time and I dont think it was something that 
ought to have led the adviser to question whether she was giving accurate information about 
her needs and circumstances. 
Considering everything, Im not satisfied the adviser was provided with any information 
which made him aware or should reasonably have made him aware or suspect that 
something might be wrong, or that Miss Ms real reasons for the borrowing were to pay 
money to a scammer.
Ive gone on to consider the suitability of the advice given to Miss M in 2009.
Miss Ms representatives accept that even if other options had been explored at the time of 
advice, the lifetime mortgage may have still been the best option for Miss M. However, they 
feel very strongly that the reserve facility attached to the original loan was unnecessary. This 
is because they think £80,000 was sufficient to meet Miss Ms needs and requirements as 
recorded in the application. They also feel reserve amount approved was excessive and 
putting it in place without requiring further applications to release the funds was reckless. 
Having carefully reviewed the letter setting out the advisers recommendation, I can see the 
following is detailed:
You wish to have a guarantee of having additional funds available in the future to assist with 
maintaining your desired standard of living, to finance ongoing service and maintenance 
charges and to finance expected holidays.
I do appreciate the initial loan would have allowed Miss M to repay various debts, thus 
reducing her repayments and outgoings. But Im not persuaded this would have been 
sufficient to meet the ongoing requirement detailed above. However, the pre-approved 
nature of the reserve would enable Miss M to access additional funds in the future, so Im 
unable to conclude it wasnt suitable given her requirement for this. Its also generally better 
to meet future needs by way of a reserve facility or through further borrowing applications, 
rather than by increasing the initial borrowing before the funds are required. This reduces the 
overall interest charged.
Ive taken into consideration the concern raised about the size of the pre-approved reserve. I 
understand the amount approved was Avivas standard maximum based on the value of 
Miss Ms property. Importantly, this was an optional facility which Miss M wasnt obliged to 
use. And for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded the adviser should have 
known or suspected Miss M had been targeted by fraudsters and it follows that I dont think 
the adviser could have reasonably foreseen Miss M would lose the funds to a scam.
Miss Ms representatives also say Miss Ms pattern of borrowing to fund her lifestyle should 
have raised concern about whether it was suitable to provide such a substantial reserve. Ive 
taken this into consideration, but it was ultimately up to Miss M to decide how she wanted to 
use any equity in her property. Its not uncommon for older borrowers who have a substantial 
property asset but limited savings or income to release equity to supplement their income or 
pay for an improved standard of living. And as Ive already set out above, I havent seen any 
evidence to show the adviser was or could reasonably have been aware of any concern 
about Miss M being vulnerable or not having capacity to enter into the agreement, or that 
she was the victim of a scam.I was very sorry to hear about what had happened to Miss M. It must have been very difficult 
for her to learn that she had lost so much money to a scam. However, for the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im unable to conclude the Aviva adviser acted inappropriately or that the 
advice to take out the lifetime mortgage and reserve was unsuitable given Miss Ms needs 
and circumstances at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman