DRN-3643237
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost, after he fell victim to a 
scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, in March 2022, Mr J was looking to purchase a pair of trainers that he 
had seen advertised on a social media platform. Mr J messaged the seller for a price and 
asked whether the sale was fully legit. The seller responded to say the price was £145 and 
told Mr J they were an established business, directing him to reviews and FAQs if he wanted 
better peace of mind.
 
Mr J has said he was drawn to the price as it was cheaper, as the trainers would usually cost 
around £300. He said he checked a number of the reviews that the seller had sent him and 
spoke to a couple of friends who buy and sell trainers. They told him this was a good price. 
Mr J told the seller hed like to buy the trainers and asked if he could pay through PayPal. 
Hes told us he asked this as he always pays this way, as it offers some protection. But the 
seller told him that payment could only be made through bank transfers, adding that this was 
because some customers had tried to claim their money back after items had been delivered 
to them. Mr J told us that while he had some doubts, given the seller couldnt accept funds 
via PayPal, he felt his bank would protect him.
Mr J went ahead and made a payment for £145 to the bank details the seller gave him. He 
received a message from the seller to say the payment had been received. But shortly after, 
Mr J became suspicious when he received another message from the seller, saying the 
payment hadnt arrived and asking him to send the payment again and offering a 50% 
discount off of his next order and a free pair of ear pods.
Unfortunately, Mr J wasnt dealing with a genuine seller and was instead communicating with 
a fraudster, who had tricked him into sending money to a bank account that they controlled.
 
Mr J raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to the 
provisions of it. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Monzo 
investigated Mr Js fraud claim but concluded it had no responsibility to refund his loss. In 
summary this was because it didnt consider Mr J had carried out enough due diligence and 
checks to verify the person he was dealing with was legitimate. It tried to recover Mr Js 
money from the receiving bank (the bank to whom the money was sent), but no funds 
remained.
Mr J didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought his complaint to our service. In 
summary, he thought he had taken measures very carefully and had even asked to pay 
through PayPal, rather than bank transfer. One of our investigators looked into things, but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she thought Monzo was entitled to 
rely on exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM code. She didnt think Mr J had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was for a genuine item. Our investigator thought 
the price of the item seemed too good to be true and added that, where Mr J had his own 
doubts and asked to pay via PayPal, the reason the fraudsters had given for not accepting 
payment in this way was not plausible.
 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should reimburse some or all of the money Mr J lost in line with the provisions of the CRM 
Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr J 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr J, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Monzos actions, I dont think it acted unfairly by declining his claim under the CRM Code. 
While this was a scam that tricked Mr J into sending a payment and receiving nothing in 
return, that doesnt mean Monzo is responsible for his loss. I also dont think it could have 
done any more to try and recover the money. So, while I know it will be disappointing for    
Mr J, having considered everything Im not upholding his complaint. 
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm 
to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Monzo has argued that Mr J didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment he 
was making was for genuine goods or services. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception(s) to reimbursement applies in Mr Js 
case. And, on balance, I dont think he has made the payments whilst having a reasonable 
basis for belief that he was engaging in a legitimate transaction. Ill explain why. The price of the trainers seemed to be well below what the market value appears to be for 
the specific brand and type of trainers Mr J was intending to buy. From what Ive seen the 
market value for this item would, conservatively, be more than double what was being asked 
for. I dont doubt the offer would have appeared enticing, considering how cheap the item 
was being advertised for, in comparison to what one might typically have expected to pay for 
it. But price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the seller 
or the proposed deal.
 
Alongside this, from seeing the exchange of messages Mr J had with the fraudster, I think 
its clear he had his own concerns, which he has confirmed with our investigator. I can see 
that he asked the seller whether the goods were fully legit and also requested to make his 
payment by way of a method that he was aware would provide him with more protection, 
which was a sensible precaution in the circumstances. 
However, the seller told him that he couldnt accept that, and said he would need to pay by 
bank transfer. I think being prevented from using the safer alternative payment method hed 
suggested should have prompted him to be yet more cautious before making this payment.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J has said, that the seller had over 70,000 followers on 
the platform. However, when I consider everything in the round, Im not persuaded Mr J 
should have accepted that things were as they were being presented to him. I think its 
reasonable to have expected Mr J to question the plausibility of what was being offered, 
especially given the price being presented seemed too good to be true and that he was 
declined a method of payment that he was aware would have offered him more protection. 
Weighing it all up, I think it more likely than not it would have been evident to Mr J that there 
was a considerable degree of risk associated with the purchase he was considering, which 
Im persuaded is supported by Mr J himself telling us he had some doubts.
All things considered, I dont think Mr J had a reasonable basis for believing the payment he 
was making was for genuine goods or services and Im persuaded this was sufficient reason 
for Monzo to fairly decline to reimburse him under the CRM Code. 
Should Monzo have done anything else to protect Mr J and prevent the fraud
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr J from financial harm. The CRM 
Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective warnings 
to their customers.
 
I am also mindful that, when Mr J made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded the payment Mr J made to the fraudsters was 
remarkable and so Im satisfied Monzo neednt have identified a scam risk and in turn did not 
need to provide effective warnings or question the payment before processing it. And so 
overall, I dont believe Monzo needed to do more than it did. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr J  
lost, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Monzo did contact 
the receiving bank when he raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it that 
no funds remained. So I think Monzo has done what could reasonably have been expected 
of it to try to recover the money.
I am sorry that Mr J has lost money in this way, and I understand the whole experience will 
have been very frustrating and upsetting for him, but in the circumstances, for the reasons explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order Monzo to repay him the money he 
sadly lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman