DRN-2926706
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, failed to provide him with sufficient 
information about enhanced annuities when he bought an annuity from them in 2007. 
What happened
Mr P had two pension plans with Norwich Union which later became part of Aviva. For ease, 
I will refer to the responsible business as Aviva throughout my decision. 
In October 2007 Mr P used his first pension plan to buy an annuity from Aviva with a five 
year guarantee. The following year, in July 2008 Mr P used his second pension plan to buy 
another annuity with Aviva. 
In 2019 Aviva contacted Mr P to say that it was conducting a review of annuity sales 
between 2008 and 2009. They said the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
asked them to conduct the review after some businesses had been found to have given 
insufficient information to their customers about the open market option and enhanced 
annuities when communicating with their customers. They asked Mr P to complete a survey 
about his medical conditions when he purchased his second annuity in 2008.
As a result of the review Aviva said Mr P would have been entitled to an enhanced annuity in 
2008 so they increased his annuity payments by approximately 43%. They also paid Mr P a 
lump sum to compensate him for his past lower payments.  
In December 2019 Mr P asked Aviva if they were going to review the annuity he bought in 
2007. But Aviva responded saying that they were only reviewing annuities from 2008 to 
2009. So, the sale of the annuity in 2007 fell outside of the review. 
Mr P continued to correspond with Aviva as he was unhappy that they wouldnt review his 
earlier annuity in the same way they reviewed his 2008 annuity. Aviva responded to Mr Ps 
complaint by saying that although his first annuity was bought eight months before his 
second annuity in 2008, it fell outside of the FCAs timeframe so they wouldnt review it. 
In his response Mr P said he didnt think the FCAs guidance prohibited his annuity sale from 
being reviewed. He asked Aviva to review the annuity to see whether sufficient information 
regarding enhanced annuities was given to him at the time. 
Aviva responded by saying that they hadnt changed their stance and would only review 
annuities that were sold between 2008-2009. As Mr P remained unhappy with Avivas 
responses, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked Aviva to send the relevant documentation Mr P was sent when he 
bought his annuity in 2007. Aviva provided some examples of the documents they say would 
have been sent to Mr P. However, due to the passage of time, they were unable to provide 
evidence of exactly what was sent to Mr P. Our investigator initially thought one of the 
documents Aviva supplied  The Annuity Brochure - held enough information about 
enhanced annuities and the open market options for Mr P to have been aware of them in 
2007. 
However, our investigator later asked Aviva for a copy of the information they sent to Mr P in 
2008. Aviva said the same key features and annuity plan documents would have been used 
in 2007 and 2008. 
Mr P sent in the retirement pack he was sent in 2008. The cover letter noted what 
documents were included in the pack but it didnt include the annuity brochure that contained 
information about enhanced annuities. Our investigator thought it was unlikely Mr P had 
been sent the annuity brochure in 2008, and as Aviva said hed been sent the same 
documents in 2007, our investigator also thought it was unlikely he was sent the annuity 
brochure in 2007 either. Based on that, our investigator then said he didnt think Mr P had 
been given sufficient information in 2007 about enhanced annuities. To put things right he 
said Aviva should compensate Mr P by increasing his current annuity in line with an 
enhanced annuity he could have got in 2007 and backdating his losses.  
Aviva disagreed with our investigator, they said the enhanced annuity market was still 
emerging in 2007. They said they only offered impaired life annuities at the time and they 
didnt think Mr P would have qualified. So, they didnt think Mr P would have bought an 
enhanced annuity even if hed known about them. As Aviva disagreed, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas responses to Mr Ps complaint focused on whether or not they were required to 
complete a review of Mr Ps 2007 annuity. However, I dont think that was the crux of Mr Ps 
complaint. He made it quite clear in the letter he sent April 2020 that he wanted Aviva to 
investigate whether or not hed been provided with sufficient information about enhanced 
annuities when he bought his annuity in 2007. 
Im satisfied that Mr P bought his annuity on a non-advised basis. Meaning Aviva didnt 
recommend which annuity Mr P should buy. But that meant it was Avivas responsibility to 
provide Mr P with information about his options in a clear way so that he could make an 
informed choice. 
So, the issue for me to determine here is whether Aviva provided Mr P with enough 
information about the open market option and enhanced annuities in 2007 for him to make 
an informed decision. 
My decision is based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
In March 2007 the Association of British Insures (ABI) published a statement of good 
practice regarding pension maturities. Not only was this considered good industry practice at 
the time, but Norwich Union were a member of the ABI and so they were expected to follow 
the ABIs guidance. 
The statement required companies to explain that enhanced and impaired life annuities were 
available on the market and whether they could be purchased from their company. 
Companies were also required to explain to their customers that they may be able to buy an 
annuity which pays a higher income by using the open market option (OMO).The regulator at the time the Financial Services Authority (FSA) also published a fact sheet 
entitled Your pension  its your time to choose. The fact sheet explained that enhanced 
and impaired life annuities paid a higher income depending on health or lifestyle conditions. 
It explained that some companies pay higher annuities to people who are overweight, have 
high cholesterol, are smokers or in poor health. Aviva havent been able to show that Mr P 
was sent this fact sheet in 2007, but they didnt have to. As long as the information they did 
send Mr P provided the equivalent information in a clear way. 
Aviva supplied their Annuity Brochure which they say was sent to everyone selecting an 
annuity at the time. However, Aviva dont hold any records that the document was 
specifically sent to Mr P. They also dont hold any letters or templates of letters that were 
sent to Mr P when he bought his annuity in 2007. Mr P also cant provide the letters he was 
sent by Aviva in 2007. 
Where evidence is missing or conflicting, I base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened considering all the circumstances of the case.
Mr P has sent us the documents he received when he bought another annuity with Aviva just 
8 months later in 2008. The covering letter lists the documents enclosed in the retirement 
pack. But The Annuity Brochure wasnt included in the documents listed in the pack and 
wasnt included in Mr Ps submission. The documents that were sent to Mr P contained 
some information about the OMO but they didnt explain the option of impaired life or 
enhanced annuities like the ABI statement of good practice said they should, or that the FSA 
factsheet did. 
I cant say for certain that the information Mr P would have been sent in 2007 was the same 
as 2008 but due to the short amount of time between both plans maturing, on the balance of 
probabilities I think it was likely Aviva would have sent the same information in both years. 
Furthermore, I think its unlikely Aviva would have sent more information to Mr P in 2007 
than they did in 2008.
I dont think the information Aviva provided Mr P in 2008 fairly explained that impaired life or 
enhanced annuities might have been available to him from other providers. So, it follows that 
I dont think its likely they did in 2007 either. 
Ive considered whether this might have affected the choices Mr P made in 2007 and I think 
it would have. Mr P provided the answers to the health questionnaire he completed when his 
2008 annuity was reviewed. The questionnaire reveals that Mr P had several health 
conditions as well as lifestyle factors, for example smoking, that may have meant he 
qualified for an enhanced or impaired life annuity. Smoking, in particular, was highlighted in 
the FSAs factsheet as being a factor which may have made him eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. So, had Mr P been aware of this I think its likely he would have enquired with Aviva 
about their enhanced or impaired life annuities or shopped around.
Aviva have told us that the enhanced annuity market was still emerging in 2007 and they 
didnt offer that product until after Mr P had bought his annuity. They also said they feel its 
unlikely Mr P would have ended up with an enhanced annuity even if hed sought advice and 
shopped around. But even if Aviva couldnt offer the product themselves, other providers 
may have been able to. So, I would have expected them to tell Mr P he may be eligible 
elsewhere. 
It may be the case that Mr P wouldnt have obtained a better rate had he shopped around for 
an enhanced or impaired life annuity. But the point of Mr Ps complaint is that if the 
possibility of achieving a higher income through an enhanced or impaired life annuity had 
been brought to his attention, its likely he would have explored his options. And I agree thats the most likely outcome. So, I think Aviva should now put things right. 
Putting things right
I dont know whether Mr P would have qualified for an enhanced annuity rate or how much 
that would have been in 2007. Aviva should first attempt to calculate what enhanced annuity 
they would have offered Mr P had he applied in October 2007 taking into account his health 
and any other lifestyle factors. Aviva should ask Mr B for any supporting information, for 
example a medical questionnaire, that would have been needed had the request been made 
at the time. This should be the assumed enhanced annuity that Mr P would have taken 
unless Aviva determine that Mr P wouldnt have been eligible for an enhanced annuity with 
them. 
In that case Aviva should ask at least three annuity providers who offered enhanced 
annuities in October 2007 for historic quotes that could have been offered to Mr P. And take 
the best of these as the assumed enhanced annuity Mr P would have taken instead. The 
quotes should be obtained on the same basis as the annuity Mr P chose at the time. Where 
this indicates Mr P has suffered a loss Aviva should then: 
 Increase Mr Ps annuity going forward by the difference between his annuity and the 
assumed enhanced annuity rate, or where this isnt possible, set up a second annuity for this 
difference. 
 Calculate the net annuity payments Mr P would have received from the assumed 
enhanced annuity rate. 
 Roll up the difference (between the assumed net enhanced annuity payment, and his 
actual net annuity payment) each month together with 8% per year simple interest to the 
date that his future increased annuity is set up and pay this sum to Mr P.
 If Aviva are deducting tax from any part of the award, it should:
Tell Mr P if it has made a deduction for income tax; and
If so, how much its taken off; and
Provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr P if he asks them to do so.
 If Mr P wouldnt have been eligible for an enhanced annuity from any of the providers in 
2007,  Aviva need to supply him with evidence of this. 
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
compensate Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman