DRN-4515325
The complaint
Mr K complains about the time it took for him to deposit a cheque when he went to a 
Santander UK Plc branch.
What happened
In August 2023, Mr K wanted to deposit a cheque into his account with Santander, so he 
went to a branch to do so. He first tried using one of the branchs machines but that didnt 
work, so he went into the branch instead. Mr K then had to wait around 30 minutes before a 
member of staff helped him deposit the cheque.
Mr K was unhappy about this, because the time it took meant that he wasnt able to get to 
the cinema in time to watch a film with his friend. So he complained to Santander, which 
acknowledged the issues hed faced and said it was sorry that Mr K had to wait as long as 
he did. Santander apologised that waited so long and paid £30 to compensate him. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this though and brought his complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into this. They felt that the £30 Santander had paid was fair. Mr K 
disagreed, saying that he missed the film at the cinema, which led to a falling out between 
him and his friend, plus he had to make a lengthy call to Santander too. He wanted £50 to 
resolve the complaint  so the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyone agrees that Mr K had to wait too long to deposit the cheque. He wasnt able to use 
a machine to do this and then he had to wait around 30 minutes in the branch before a 
member of staff was able to help him. Thats a long time for a customer to wait and its 
unfortunate that this had an impact on Mr Ks plans for the day.
When Santander investigated Mr Ks complaint it spoke to the branch manager who was 
there on the day. They said that the branch was extremely busy when Mr K went in. I accept 
that can happen in a branch, but equally, thats not Mr Ks fault and I think he could 
reasonably have expected to have carried out the simple task of depositing a cheque much 
quicker than it actually took here.
That means what Im left to decide is whats fair to resolve this complaint. Santander paid 
Mr K £30, but he feels that £50 would be fairer. Ive considered everything that Mr K has said 
about the impact and what he told our investigator about his personal circumstances too. I 
realise that Mr K missed out on a film he was planning to watch with a friend and that things 
then became strained between him and his friend as a result of him being late. I dont think 
itd be fair to hold Santander responsible for all of that though  I dont think it would 
necessarily have known that would be the impact here.
But Mr K was caused some inconvenience and frustration by having to wait for half an hour. 
For that Santander should compensate Mr K and I think £30 is fair in the circumstances. I 
realise that Mr K thinks that an additional £20 is payable here, but I think Santander has 
treated his complaint seriously and paid him an amount that reflects the length of the delay 
and the inconvenience caused. So I wont be telling it to do any more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman