DRN-1602045
The complaint
This is a complaint that MBNA Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy started in 1999 and MBNAs 
records say it was sold during a phone conversation. It looks likely that this happened as 
part of the process of setting up the credit card, after Mrs S had applied for the card itself by 
post. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website Ive 
and taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs S has said, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mrs S says she has no recollection of taking this PPI out, and she says she wouldnt have 
taken it out. She says she didnt need it and would have been paid her salary if shed been 
off work sick. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to say that MBNA added the 
PPI without Mrs Ss agreement. This did all happened about 22 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember details from that long ago  so I cant fairly say that, 
because Mrs S doesnt remember agreeing to the PPI, this means she actually didnt agree 
to it. And I dont have any other evidence that MBNA didnt follow the proper process of 
offering the PPI as a choice during its phone conversation.
It wouldnt be fair to make MBNA prove it didnt do something wrong  instead, fairly, I would 
need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say 
that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mrs S 
now believes. 
Ive thought about other ways the PPI might have been mis-sold, but again I dont have good 
evidence that these apply:
I dont think its likely MBNA recommended the PPI, in the sense of telling Mrs S 
that it would be particularly suitable for her individual needs. This means it didnt 
have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well MBNA explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information MBNA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful. The PPI would have paid out on top of 
any work sick pay or redundancy pay she received, and could have made her more 
financially secure if she lost her earnings due to long-term sickness or redundancy. 
And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman