The complaint
Mr C's unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, blocked a transaction he 
authorised on his credit card. He wants an explanation about why the payment was refused. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint, for these reasons:
There will be various triggers a bank may use to flag transactions of suspicion. And
this wont necessarily be the amount or recipient of the transaction. This might
explain why transactions for larger amounts to the same retailers may go through
one day but be flagged on another.
I can understand Mr C wanting to know exactly why his payment was stopped. And
Ive thought carefully about whether Virgin Money shouldve given Mr C further
information around why his transaction was flagged.
Ultimately, giving out detailed information about why transactions are flagged could
compromise Virgin Moneys fraud prevention measures. So I dont think they acted
unreasonably by not sharing any more information than they did.
Virgin Money didnt decline Mr Cs transaction straightaway. Had Mr C replied to the
text message he received within the required timeframe, the payment wouldve been
authorised. I understand that the transaction was flagged early in the morning, before
Mr C had had a chance to check his phone. But it was the retailer that processed it at
this time, not Virgin Money.
I appreciate that the transaction in question was genuine, but Virgin Money wouldnt
have been aware of that at the time. And when they didnt receive a response to their
text alert, its understandable that as a precaution they stopped the payment.
I do appreciate Mr Cs frustrations. But as he acknowledges, fraud prevention is extremely 
important, and measures are put in place to protect customers. In all the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Virgin Money to provide any further explanation in this case.
DRN-1937728My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman