DRN-3250003
The complaint
Mr M complains about MBNA Limited and the information they reported to his credit file after 
he made them aware he was unable to meet his minimum monthly payment for his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr M held a credit card account with MBNA, which had an outstanding balance of over 
£30,000 in the summer of 2018. In August 2018, Mr M was unable to make a payment 
towards this account due to his financial circumstances. Mr M entered into a debt 
management plan with a debt management company, who Ill refer to as S, and they put 
forward an affordable monthly payment to MBNA.
A monthly payment of £36.96 was agreed in September 2018 and this payment was made 
each month until Mr Ms account was defaulted in March 2019. But Mr M was unhappy with 
how this was reported to his credit file, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think it was fair for MBNA to record missed payments from September 2018 to 
February 2019 when he was making a payment towards the account. He also thought the 
missed payment reported in August 2018 was unfair as he was taking steps to sort his 
finances at the time. Mr M explained other lenders he had credit with the time had reported 
his accounts as in a repayment arrangement and he thought MBNA shouldve done the 
same. So, he wanted his credit file to be amended and to be compensated for the upset this 
caused.
MBNA didnt agree. They explained the monthly payment they agreed to accept as part of 
Mr Ms debt management plan with S wasnt agreed as part of a separate repayment plan 
with them. They explained Mr Ms account continued to build arrears as they payment didnt 
meet the minimum monthly payment required as part of the credit agreement so they 
thought theyd reported this correctly to Mr Ms credit file. And they thought because of this, 
they were fair to default the account and report this as well. So, MBNA didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought MBNA had 
reported to Mr Ms credit file fairly, as the arrears were continuing to build on his account 
despite a nominal payment being made. And she thought MBNA had made it reasonably 
clear to Mr M the payment wouldnt prevent a default from being applied and she was 
satisfied this default was actioned within the time frames suggest by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). So, she didnt think MBNA needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think this was fair, as other lenders had reported a repayment 
arrangement to his credit file. And he didnt think the letter he received from MBNA made it 
clear the monthly payment he offered, and they accepted, didnt qualify as an arrangement. 
He also thought as MBNA hadnt taken it as such, they shouldve defaulted his account 
sooner if theyd already decided their intention to default the account. So, if this was the 
case, he thought the default should be backdated to September 2018, when MBNA became 
aware he was in a debt management plan. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M 
financial situation resulted in him needing to agree a debt management plan and I recognise 
the worry and upset this is likely to have caused. And I understand Mr Ms concern about the 
impact this debt management plan had on his ability to obtain future credit and the difficulties 
this may create. So, I do recognise why Mr M wants to ensure the information reported to his 
credit file around this time was fair and accurate to ensure the impact to him some years 
after is as limited as it can be.
But for me to say MBNA have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied the information 
they reported to Mr Ms credit file was inaccurate. And if I think it was, Id also need to be 
satisfied that the inaccuracy has had a material impact on Mr M. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Im aware Mr Ms main dispute is the way in which his account was reported to his credit file 
between September 2018 and February 2019. MBNA have confirmed although they 
accepted Mr Ms payment offer of £36.96, this wasnt agreed as a repayment arrangement 
as his arrears were continuing to build significantly.
Ive seen Mr Ms balance around that time was more than £30,000. And his credit agreement 
explains his minimum monthly repayment would be either £25 or 1% of the statement 
balance depending on which was higher. So, based on this, Mr Ms minimum monthly 
repayment was likely to be over £300 plus interest. So, even though Mr M was making a 
token payment to his account, I think his arrears were continuing to build significantly. 
Because of this, I dont think MBNA were unfair to not deem this as a repayment 
arrangement, as Mr M would be unable to clear his balance or arrears making the payment 
that had been agreed.
And looking at the letter MBNA sent to Mr M confirming this payment offer in late August 
2018, I think this makes it reasonably clear to Mr M that this offer wouldnt prevent his 
account being defaulted. So, I dont think there is anything in this letter that suggests to me 
MBNA misled Mr M into thinking a formal repayment agreement had been arranged.
As Mr Ms account was continuing to build arrears, MBNA reported this to Mr Ms credit file 
with the numbers 1 to 6. And Im aware Mr M thinks this suggests to other potential lenders 
that he wasnt making payments. But these numbers also represent the number of months 
since Mr Ms account had entered arrears. And as Mr Ms agreed payment failed to clear 
these arrears and instead allowed them to build, I dont think itd be fair for me to say the 
information MBNA have reported is inaccurate. 
I recognise Mr M says other lenders who he had credit with at the time reported to his credit 
file differently, I dont think this means MBNA have done something wrong. My decision is 
focused solely on the actions taken by MBNA in relation to Mr Ms account with them. Im aware Mr Ms accounts with other lenders are likely to have differing balances for differing 
lengths of time with differing terms and conditions. So, it would be unfair to compare another 
lenders decision to that of MBNAs.
So, considering the above, I think MBNA reported to Mr Ms credit file fairly as the 
information they provided was accurate. And because of this, I dont think they need to 
anything more.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise Mr M has stated if 
this is the case, MBNA shouldve defaulted his account sooner if they always intended to do 
so. But Im satisfied MBNA served notice to Mr M of their intention to default the account 
within the time frames set out by the ICO. And this is what Id expect them to do. So, I dont 
think there would be any reason for MBNA to back date this default. 
I also want to reassure Mr M that in general, when a lender refers to a customers credit file, 
they will consider the number of defaults a customer has had and how long it has been since 
that default was applied when taking the decision to lend. Its unlikely that a lender would 
make a definitive decision on whether to lend based on the actions of a customer in the 
months leading up to a default. So, I dont think the way MBNA reported to Mr Ms credit file 
is likely to have a material impact on any lending decision Mr M may receive in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman