DRN-3631273
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers 
Limited (Chase) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says that pension is not performing 
as well as it could, and he is able to draw down much less than he would be receiving from 
the DB pension. So, he thinks the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M approached a business called Thomsons Wealth Management (Thomsons) in 2001 to 
discuss his pension and retirement needs. The business has merged with Chase, and 
Chase is now responsible for this complaint. 
Thomsons completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Mr M was aged 48 and self-employed. He was hoping to 
reduce his working hours in the near future and possibly retire at 55. Chase also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was neutral or medium.
Mr M had deferred benefits in two DB schemes. Mr M has only complained about the 
transfer of larger DB scheme where he had 22 years of deferred benefits. 
At the initial time of advice, the transfer value for the DB scheme was £155,891. However, 
when Mr M was in a position to transfer, due to adverse stock market movements, the 
transfer value had fallen to £129,621. Mr M was made aware of this and he agreed to the 
transfer on this basis. 
In 2002, Thomsons advised Mr M to transfer his DB pension benefits into a SIPP and invest 
the proceeds. He transferred £129,621 into a third-party SIPP and invested in its Mixed 
fund, which was a medium risk fund. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr M wanted to 
reduce the hours that he worked and start to draw down from his pension fund. He wanted to 
gain some flexibility, and increase his pension. Both the death benefits and tax free cash 
were greater under the SIPP. The report said the penalties were too high for Mr M to take 
the benefits from his DB schemes immediately. 
Mr M complained in 2021 to Chase about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
his pension fund had fallen in value significantly over time and he did not recall receiving any 
advice, or analysis of his situation, when he made the transfer.  
Chase didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the transfer met his needs for flexibility in 
terms of how and when the benefits were taken, it provided greater death benefits and 
control of the funds. The transfer met Mr Ms financial priorities and personal circumstances. 
He was also informed about the reduction in the transfer value before he proceeded. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Chase paid compensation. She said that:  
The transfer was not financially viable as it was unlikely to provide better benefits 
than the DB pension.  
The other reasons given at the time of sale were generic and Mr Ms circumstances, 
and other options, werent really looked into. 
So, it wasnt established that Mr M could really retire early, or that he needed 
flexibility and increased death benefits. 
Chase disagreed, saying that:
Mr M is fine with the transfer of his smaller DB scheme. As both schemes were 
transferred at the same time, and for the same reasons, the advice must be suitable 
for him. 
The Ombudsman Service is relying on current regulatory standards rather than the 
standards at the time. In particular, at the time, the onus was on the consumer to 
seek clarification of advice where needed. 
Mr M confirmed that he wanted to proceed with the transfer, even though the transfer 
value had recently fallen significantly
Full information was provided at the time of sale. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. She clarified the rules and 
regulations she had used when considering the case and said that the DB transfer that Mr M 
hadnt complained about was far smaller, so this was reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulators rules that were in place at the time of sale are:
COB 5.3.29A(4):
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved 
and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be on a similar basis 
to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent also had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the guidance under the previous 
regulator.
Importantly it also said for the first time that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current Financial Conduct Authority rulebook.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount 
rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 7.74% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 6.9% per year for 13 
years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr M's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a 
materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with their attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Chase 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needsIts relevant to say that the information taken from Mr M at the point of sale was very brief. 
And it follows that I dont think his needs were really established. Some broad aims or wants 
were noted, but there was no in-depth analysis of Mr Ms circumstances. 
Chase has said that Mr M wanted flexibility in retirement, and this is why the transfer was 
suitable for him. But, it isnt enough just to say that Mr M wanted some flexibility in his 
pension arrangements. The advice needed to go further than this, encompass some analysis 
of Mr Ms circumstances, and say why the transfer was suitable for this reason.
It wasnt established what Mr Ms income needs were in retirement. So, its difficult to now 
say Thomsons was right to recommend that Mr M lose his DB scheme benefits when it didnt 
know he definitely needed a flexible income. And the DB scheme might have better met his 
income needs. The transfer seems to have gone ahead based on Mr M expressing a desire 
to (possibly partially retire in five years or so, which is sooner than his DB schemes 
retirement age, but no more than this. I dont think this was right.
So, having looked at the point of sale information, I dont think it was established that Mr M 
required (rather than simply wanted) flexibility in retirement. This doesnt seem to have been 
discussed in any detail. I also cant see evidence that Mr M had a strong need for variable 
income throughout his retirement. This also doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide an income in retirement. And I dont think Chase explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think Chase made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, Chase should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. I cannot see that 
he had an interest in, or the knowledge, to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.Suitability of investments
Chase recommended that Mr M invest in equity based funds, which did have some 
investment risk. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr M should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments in the SIPP wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Chase 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
It didnt do this here. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
And this was exacerbated by the fall in the transfer value. I appreciate that Mr M still 
proceeded after this. But Chase still advised him that it was suitable to do so. 
I dont think that this is changed as Mr M hasnt complained about his second DB transfer. 
This transfer value was very modest, and so, Mr M may not have thought it worth pursuing. 
And in any event this doesnt affect my findings above. 
So, I think Chase shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Chase's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Chases advice. I say this because this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ms retirement provision. So, if Chase had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr M had any concerns that were so great that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Thomsons had 
explained that it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to risk his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Chase should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line with 
current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and or rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Chases unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Chase must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65 as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Chase may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Chase receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Chase to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Chase to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Chase de 
Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr M accepts this decision. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman