DRN-3782010
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) irresponsibly lent to 
her on a credit card, many loans, and an overdraft.
What happened
In 1999 Mrs B opened a credit card account with Yorkshire Bank, with an initial limit of £900 
(going by the earliest available statement). She also had an overdraft facility for £200 in 
place at the time. Within a year of opening the credit card account Mrs B exceeded the limit, 
and remained at the top of it until it was increased to £1,400 at some point in 2000. Within a 
few months of that increase Mrs B was up to the new limit on the credit card  and in 
October 2000 she took out a loan to pay off the balance.
Following that first loan, Mrs B refinanced the borrowing 12 more times  with new loans 
often taken within a few months of each other. The earlier loans were sold with payment 
protection insurance (PPI) attached, financed by separate borrowing on top of the loan to 
pay for the premium upfront. By 2008 the total amount payable on the loan was over 
£32,000. The final loan was approved in 2017.
During the same period, the credit card limit was increased to £6,800  before the account 
was eventually closed in 2010. Mrs Bs authorised overdraft was also increased to £1,000. 
At a certain point Mrs B switched to a bank account with a monthly fee to try and limit her 
unauthorised borrowing and returned payment charges. That also had an overdraft facility.
In 2019 Mrs Bs son, who has lasting power of attorney over her affairs, made a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) to Yorkshire Bank. After reviewing the amount of lending that had 
been approved over the years, Mr Bs son raised a complaint. Yorkshire Bank responded to 
say it thought the lending had been affordable and it couldnt see any indications of financial 
difficulty. But the bank said it wasnt able to review the basis of all the lending decisions, due 
to a lack of information relating to the earlier ones. 
Mrs B didnt agree and so referred the complaint to our service for review. An investigator 
here didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He could see Mrs B had been given a 
substantial amount of lending  but, owing to a lack information about the checks, he didnt 
think he could safely say they hadnt been carried out correctly. Mrs B didnt accept the 
investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
Having reviewed everything, I wrote to Yorkshire Bank to explain that I considered all of the 
lending approved to have been unaffordable. I believed it had all of the information it needed 
from her bank account to determine the initial credit card limit wasnt likely to be affordable  
and the situation had spiralled from there. I said I intended to uphold the complaint, and 
direct Yorkshire Bank to refund all of the interest and charges applied to any lending 
approved from 1999 (the credit card) onwards. I added that I would be refunding any PPI 
attached to the loans, that hadnt already been paid back. I also said Mrs B should get all the 
monthly account fees paid on the bank account refunded  as she had only opted for that 
account due to the financial difficulty caused by the lending, and to limit the charges she was 
incurring. Any positive balances resulting from the refunds would have 8% yearly simple 
interest applied to them. 
I also said I planned to award Mrs B £2,500 in compensation for Yorkshire Banks part in the 
debt cycle she was trapped in for over seventeen years. I thought the unaffordable lending 
had caused her substantial distress and worry, and also meant she had to take on a 
significant number of extra hours at work after the age of retirement.  
Yorkshire Bank agreed to my provisional findings, but has since struggled to calculate the 
redress due. It has said missing information from the earlier years has meant an exact 
calculation isnt possible. But the bank has committed to providing an offer of alternative 
redress that includes its best estimation to fill in any blanks. In order to bring the dispute to a 
close Im issuing this final decision, so that there can be a timeline to finalising the 
calculations needed.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Both parties have agreed in principle to the 
resolution Ive proposed, so I wont go into lots of detail about my rationale. But before I set 
out my findings I want to acknowledge that Ive described the timeline of events here very 
briefly, and in my own words. No discourtesy is meant by that, and my intention isnt to 
minimise what Mrs B went through in any way. Ive focussed on some key points to help 
illustrate how Ive reached my decision, which also reflects our services informal nature. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. So I
wont repeat it here. I appreciate that the earlier lending pre-dates some of those rules  but 
Ive worked on the basis that the later guidance codified standards of good practice that had 
been around for a while. Theres also been a longstanding expectation on banks to consider 
affordability when making lending decisions. 
Bearing all that in mind, the questions I needed to answer in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint were:
Did Yorkshire Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs B would be able to afford to repay any lending in a sustainable way?
If not, would proportionate checks have shown Mrs B could afford the credit? 
Yorkshire Bank said that its affordability checks consisted of reviewing the information 
provided on any application, and checking the level of income against known information 
from the current account. So Ive done the same for each of the lending decisions. 
The credit card application gives Mrs Bs net income as £470 per month, but the bank 
statements show she was paid £105 per week. So her monthly income was less than the 
amount stated on the form. The application also said Mrs B paid £40 in rent, but the current 
account statements show her rent was £210.34 per month. Ive calculated that Mrs Bs 
outgoings averaged £380 a month, and thats only considering essential bills and some very 
small cash withdrawals to pay for living costs. Based on disposable income of around £70 a 
month I dont consider a credit card limit of £900 was affordable. If Mrs B used the full 
amount of credit, and paid all of her disposable income towards the balance each month, it 
would take her over 15 months to pay it off. Even just paying back the minimum repayment 
on the card each month would leave very little contingency for unexpected expenses. Though the affordability checks Yorkshire Bank said it competed for the credit card were 
likely proportionate  I find those checks should have produced a different result. Based on 
what Ive seen from Mrs Bs statements, I dont consider the lending on the credit card was 
affordable.
That initial unaffordable lending decision triggered a series of loans and further borrowing. 
Initially the first loan was taken to pay off the credit card balance. Later the loans were used 
to refinance the previous loan as well as pay off new balances on the credit card and 
overdraft (both of which had their limits increased significantly over time). That sent Mrs B 
into a spiral of taking out more and more borrowing to keep up  and resulted in an 
increasing proportion of the total amount owed being interest refinanced from the prior 
lending. Very little additional capital was ever lent over the years  each loan mostly 
refinanced existing (and growing) debt. 
Ive reviewed each of the lending decisions on the loans, and the limit increases on the credit 
card and overdraft  and, even when considered in isolation, Ive found they were 
unaffordable. Thats based on known information from the bank account about her income 
and outgoings, as well as how Mrs B was managing her existing borrowing in the run up to 
the decisions. So I dont consider Yorkshire Bank should have approved the lending on any 
of the loans, the credit card, or the overdraft (bar the initial £200 overdraft limit that pre-dated 
the credit card). 
Putting things right
Yorkshire Bank should make the following calculations and payments to put right the 
mistakes identified above:
It should refund: all interest charged on any of the borrowing across Mrs Bs loans, 
credit card and overdraft/current account; as well as any charges applied (for 
late/missed/returned payments, exceeding limits etc); any PPI taken to cover the 
loans (as the loans shouldnt have been approved); and also any bank account fees. 
Mrs B only upgraded to an account with a monthly fee to try and limit unauthorised 
borrowing charges. So I dont think Mrs B would have needed to have an account 
with a monthly fee had the unaffordable lending not spiralled in the way it did.
As the loans were each refinanced, and those were taken to refinance credit card
lending, there will have been interest charged on interest on interest etc. So 
Yorkshire Bank will need to rework the lending journey, as if none of the lending after 
April 1999 was approved, so that Mrs B only pays for the actual capital spent. 
8% simple interest yearly should be applied to any positive balance resulting from 
that re-working, from the time a credit balance started accruing up until settlement is 
paid. If Yorkshire Bank considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
If there are any credit file entries still remaining for any of the lending Ive said was 
unaffordable then Yorkshire Bank should remove those.
Yorkshire Banks mistakes have had a significant impact on Mrs B  over a very long 
period of time. She was lent to relentlessly, and none of it I consider was 
affordable/responsible. Ive not seen any account activity that I would consider 
extravagant from Mrs B over the years either  all of the spending I saw was very modest. Thats meant shes been put her under serious financial pressure for nearly 
two decades. When the total lending reached its peak between 2008-2011 Mrs B 
increased the number of hours she was working significantly (her job/position didnt 
change but there was an uplift in her wages of around 40%) to cope with the amount 
shed been lent. This is after shed already reached retirement age of 65  not usually 
a time when people consider working more hours than ever. But Mrs B has told us 
she felt like she had to, and blamed herself for the spiralling debt situation she found 
herself in. For that level of impact, and the sustained nature of the worry and stress 
that Yorkshire Bank has contributed to over so many years, I consider an award of 
£2,500 (in addition to any refund following the above calculations) would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that for some of the earlier lending decisions there is incomplete data. Im 
thinking particularly about the credit card, where we dont have the initial statements, so 
interest and charges will be unknown for the first few months. But we have some statements 
from January 2000  so any period that cant be accurately calculated should be estimated 
based on usage during the time we have the information for. We have the bank statements 
needed for the overdraft and account fee/charges refund calculations  and from those 
statements we know the amount of every loan (as it was paid into the current account), and 
the monthly repayment towards it. Im confident that using that information a calculation can 
be done to, at least, estimate all the interest paid. 
If Yorkshire Bank considers it will be difficult to make those calculations within the required 
timeframe, then it has the choice to either:
employ outside professional help in putting together its offer, and making those 
estimations/calculations  or;
it should refund everything that was paid towards the loans it cant accurately 
calculate the interest on. Each loan was usually refinanced within a few months, and 
early payments would likely have been largely put towards the interest anyway. 
Any estimated figures should be clearly signalled when Yorkshire Bank sets out how its 
calculated its offer to Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc, and direct the 
bank to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman