DRN-2093898
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions he said he never 
made.
What happened
Between 21 July 2017 and 3 August 2017, Mr N's debit card was used to make cash 
withdrawals and purchases totalling £2,706.55. The transactions were funded by a credit into 
his account for £2,700 from a nightclub. This sum was later repaid to the merchant, leaving 
his account overdrawn.
Mr N said he was either in police custody or prison during this period. His mum told him 
about the transactions while he was in prison. He didnt know how she knew but thought 
shed opened his statement. He asked her to contact Barclays, which she did on 26 July 
2017. It blocked his ATM-only card but not his debit card, which had been used to make the 
disputed transactions. The transactions continued until 3 August 2017.
Barclays closed his account because it was in arrears and recorded a default on his credit 
file.
In June 2019,  after his release from prison, Mr N raised a formal complaint with Barclays 
because he couldnt open another bank account. He said he didnt authorise the transactions 
and he couldnt have made them because he was in prison.
He said he last used his card in a bar at a family wake on 17 August 2017. He made two 
contactless payments and one chip and pin payment. He said he couldnt remember much 
after that because he was drunk.
He also said he didnt keep a written note of his pin and he didnt know how anyone else 
would know his pin. However, he admitted to Barclays that he might have asked a family 
member or girlfriend to get some shopping and he might have told them his pin then, but he 
wasnt sure.
Mr N asked Barclays for a refund of the transactions. He also asked it to remove the default.
Barclays decided not to refund him or remove the default. It said the disputed transactions 
were made with his debit card and pin. And as only he knew the pin, he must have shared it 
with someone. So it held him responsible for the transactions.
As for his credit file, it said it was a fact that his account was overdrawn and in arrears.  
Consequently, it had an obligation to report the default to the credit reference agencies.
Mr N wasnt happy with Barclays decision so he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. He concluded that Mr N couldnt 
have made the transactions because he was in prison or police custody at the time.  And he 
didnt think there was enough evidence showing that hed been grossly negligent with his 
bank details.Barclays disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
Provisional Decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve it. On balance, I thought it was more likely that Mr N had 
shared his card and pin with someone he knew who had made the disputed transactions. I 
concluded that Barclays were entitled to refuse a refund but I thought it was fair and 
reasonable, in the circumstances, for Barclays to refund the transactions made from 26 July 
2017 to 3 August 2017 because it had cancelled the wrong card.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision but Mr N hasn't responded.
This case has now come back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my decision especially as Barclay's has 
accepted my provisional decision and I've not received any new evidence from Mr N.
 
In short, Barclays is required to refund unauthorised transactions. The relevant regulations, 
to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). As Mr N says he 
didnt make the disputed transactions, then my primary concern is to come to a view about 
whether I think he authorised them.
However, the regulations also state that even if a transaction is unauthorised, the bank can 
still treat the accountholder as liable if they failed, with intent or gross negligence, to comply 
with the banks conditions to keep their personalised security credentials safe. This includes 
personal details such as their pin and passwords.  They must also tell their bank without 
undue delay on becoming aware that their card is lost or stolen, or that its been used 
without their consent. 
I realise Mr N might not have known about this provision and he wouldnt be alone. Im sure 
many customers dont know that the bank can hold them responsible for transactions they 
didnt make because theyve have shared their banking details with someone else. However, 
I must still consider whether Mr N failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms and conditions of his account.
Barclays no longer has the audit report for the transactions but based on its other records 
Im satisfied that Mr Ns genuine card and pin were used in order for the disputed 
transactions to take place. They couldn't have been made without both.Mr N says he couldnt have made the transactions because he was in prison. He says he 
didnt know his card was lost or missing. It was only when his mum told him about the 
transactions that he found out. He said he attended a wake on 17 July 2017 where only 
family members were present. He used his card three times in the bar. The first payment 
was chip and pin. The second and third payments were contactless. He said he cant 
remember much about that day/evening because he got drunk. He suggests someone must 
have stolen his card at the wake.
On balance, I dont think the transactions were made by someone who stole or found his lost 
card. There are too many discrepancies in his evidence. Besides, the activities on the 
account are not consistent with those done by an opportunistic thief. This is because:-
originally, Mr N said he was arrested on 17 July 2017, after the funeral. Then he said 
he was arrested on 18 July 2017 and detained until June 2019. However, the 
probation service told us he was interviewed by the police on 23 July 2017. Its 
unlikely he was held in police custody from 18 July to 23 July 2017. I think its more 
likely he was arrested on 22 or 23 July 2017, in which case he ought to have noticed 
earlier if his card were missing. However, he didnt.
Barclays said he usually made contactless payments but in the bar at the wake he 
made a chip and pin payment for the lowest value transaction. This was out of 
character for him and at odds with the other two contactless payments.
There was a cash withdrawal at 3.48pm the same day, which he didnt dispute, so he 
had his card at this time.
He suggested he might have been shoulder surfed in the bar. However, whoever had 
his card waited at least two days before using the card, (apart from a contactless 
payment in a pub for £4.60 on 18 July). This is unusual where a card is stolen,
The pub was 400 metres from the nightclub where the credit came from.
Its unusual for an opportunistic thief to make a payment into the victims account.
He disputed a payment to a phone provider on 18 July, even though he made regular 
payments to the same provider.
 
For these reasons, I dont consider his card was stolen and used by someone he didnt 
know. The only way an unknown third party would know his pin is by shoulder surfing him 
but apart from a possible opportunity in the bar, theres no real evidence this happened. And 
besides, I dont believe that the third party would wait 2 or 3 days before using the card or 
that they would pay a credit into his account.
However, some transactions were made when Mr N was in prison, so he couldnt physically 
have made them. Clearly, someone else had his card. The transactions were made with his 
card and pin. This could only happen if hed shared his PIN with that person. I believe this is 
what happened.
He said he might have shared his pin with a family member or girlfriend, although he wasnt 
sure that he did. But there is no other plausible explanation for how someone knew his pin. I 
think its more likely that he did share it. By sharing his card details, I'm afraid he has failed 
with intent to comply with the terms and conditions of his account.
On balance, taking everything into account, I think Mr N shared his card and pin with 
someone he knew who later made the disputed transactions. For this reason, Barclays is 
entitled to hold him liable for the transactions.
When Mr N found out about the transactions, he asked his mum to tell Barclays so that it 
could stop the transactions.  Barclays confirmed that a card was reported as lost on 26 July 
2017 and it blocked the card. However, Barclays blocked his ATM-only card, whereas it was the debit card that was used for the disputed transactions.  Barclays cant say if it blocked 
the wrong card by mistake. However, under the terms and conditions, the accountholder isnt 
liable for unauthorised payments from their account which are made after theyve reported 
the card as lost or stolen. It was clearly Mr Ns intention for the debit card to be blocked. 
Theres no reason to believe his mum made the mistake.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to refund the transactions 
which were made from 26 July to 3 August 2017. According to my calculations the total 
refund is £1,203.75.
The refund reduces the overdraft, but the account would still have been overdrawn. As 
Barclays said, this is a question fact. It has to report a default to the credit reference 
agencies, so I wont be asking it to remove the default.
Putting things right
Given these circumstances, I think it's fair and reasonable for Barclays to refund Mr N the 
sum of £1,203.75 with interest. I won't be asking it to remove the default on his credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im partially upholding this complaint. Im asking Barclays Bank UK 
Plc to:
refund the disputed transactions made from 26 July 2017 to 3 August 2017 totalling 
£1,203.75
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account until 
they are refunded
make any necessary amendments to the credit files to show the reduced overdraft, 
charges and interest
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman