DRN-4296273
The complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr G held an account with HSBC with an overdraft facility. Mr G complained to HSBC about 
the overdraft charges applied to his account. He says that he was struggling to pay the 
necessities and that direct debits were being returned and requested a refund of all charges.
HSBC said all charges were applied to Mr Gs account correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Mr G was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
A jurisdiction decision was issued on 9 August 2023 deciding that we were unable to look at 
Mr Gs complaint regarding the charges HSBC applied to Mr Gs account prior to April 2017 
because it was made out of time. 
So my decision will only be looking at the merits of Mr Gs complaint from April 2017.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft fees from 1 January 2019 as Mr Gs statements showed that 
Mr G hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time.
Our adjudicator thought HSBC should put things right by:
Re-working Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 January 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 1 January 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr G, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
HSBC agreed to settle Mr Gs complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations. 
Mr G doesnt wish to accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Mr Gs statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that by 
1 January 2019 it was evident Mr G wasnt managing his overdraft in a sustainable way. 
Although a healthy salary was being paid into Mr Gs account, his overdraft overall wasnt 
reducing.
 
While I accept Mr Gs statements show that there were at times a number of discretionary 
transactions on Mr Gs account (including spending on online retail, takeout and cash 
withdrawals), for the period looked at from April 2017 Mr G wasnt able to see or maintain a 
credit balance and some discretionary spending doesnt mean the lending should continue 
without a review.  
If HSBC had carried out a proper review of his statements I think it ought to have realised it 
was unlikely Mr G would be able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. HSBC has agreed to settle Mr G complaint in-line with this finding and Mr G 
will be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr G to decide whether he now 
wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman