DRN-3263611
The complaint
A complains about Metro Bank PLCs decision to restrict and subsequently close its account. 
A says this caused significant loss and it wants compensation. 
What happened
A held a bank account with Metro. In November 2019, A noticed it couldnt make payments 
into or out of its account. It raised this with Metro but didnt receive a satisfactory response. 
In December 2019, A received a letter from Metro giving it seven days notice to close its 
account. A received this letter after the account had already been closed.
A said not having access to its account caused significant loss to its business earnings, and 
it feels it should have been given 60 days notice from Metro, rather than the seven days. A 
also doesnt feel like it got any notice at all as it received the letter late  it says this lost it 
customers.
A also had a previous dispute with Metro for allowing an unauthorised direct debit to be 
taken from its account. Metro agreed to refund the transactions but only refunded A for one 
payment of £120 rather than two. Metro has since agreed to refund A the further £120. 
A brought the complaint to our service. It explained it had lost over £20,000 revenue and 
caused a lot of inconvenience by having to visit branch on multiple occasions to try and get 
access to the money which was left in its account at the time of closure.
Our investigator upheld As complaint. She was satisfied Metro was entitled to review and 
close As account  but she thought they should have given A 60 days notice. While our 
investigator thought about the financial loss the short closure could have had on A  she 
hadnt seen any evidence of financial loss so didnt think Metro had to pay anything. Our 
investigator did agree Metro should pay the £120 to A regarding the outstanding refund for 
the unauthorised direct debit. And she asked them to pay A £600 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
A didnt respond to our investigators opinion. Metro did respond  they disagreed with the 
compensation amount.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In December 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
I trust A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed its complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
The unauthorised direct debit payment
A says it raised a dispute about payments taken from its account through a direct debit 
facility which shouldnt have been set up. At the time, Metro refunded one payment for £120, 
but a further payment of £120 was left outstanding. Metro have admitted they should have 
refunded both payments  and have agreed to refund the outstanding £120 to A. I consider 
this to be the appropriate thing to do, however I also think Metro should pay interest on the 
amount to recognise the loss of use of the money to A.
The review and closure
Metro, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Metro were 
acting in line with these obligations when reviewing As account, Ive explained further below.
Metro will often review accounts  its their duty to ensure accounts are being used in the 
way they should be and to protect the money held in them. Im not able to share the full 
reasons as to why Metro decided to carry out a review on As account, but Id like to 
reassure A that based on the evidence available, Im satisfied Metros actions were 
reasonable.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if A decided to stop banking with Metro, it wouldnt have to 
explain why.
However, Metro can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Metro have relied on the terms and conditions when closing As 
account and helpfully referred A to the specific section of the terms (13.2) they relied on in 
their final response letter. 
The term explains that the bank can close the account immediately  or give notice of 
around two months. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I think a 
notice period of two months would have been more appropriate than the seven days Metro 
gave. I think the two months would have given A sufficient time to make alternative banking 
arrangements. While I agree Metro should have given A more time, Im satisfied with their 
decision overall to close the account and therefore wont be asking them to reinstate it.
The impact on A
A has explained the financial loss it has encountered because of Metro closing its account 
without notice. In order for me to fairly consider financial loss, Id have to see evidence of the 
loss and be satisfied that Metros actions caused it. A has given a detailed breakdown of the 
losses it feels it has occurred, but I havent seen any concrete evidence of these losses. 
Therefore, I cant fairly ask Metro to pay anything towards it.
I do, however, consider the overall inconvenience A would have experienced as a result of 
Metro closing the account with less notice than it should have. I cant take into account the 
directors personal time or efforts spent on the complaint, as they are a separate entity to A. 
And of course, I cant say A was distressed because it isnt a natural person who has 
feelings  it is a limited company. I can consider any inconvenience caused to A, however, 
and Ive thought carefully about the extra efforts forced on A  mainly moving its accounts 
and updating its customers of the change with no notice. Because of that, I consider £250 
compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to A.
So, I thought Metro should pay A £120 from the outstanding unauthorised direct debit; pay 
interest on this amount at 8% simple; and pay £250 compensation.Metro responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. A didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, my decision hasnt changed. Metro didnt have any further evidence or 
arguments and A didnt respond. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
Putting things right
 In summary, I think Metro should have refunded the second direct debit when A raised the 
claim. To recognise the loss of use of the funds, they should also pay 8% simple interest. 
And while I think they were fair to close As account  I think they should have given more 
notice. So I think £250 compensation should be paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Metro Bank Plc should 
do the following:
Pay A £120 from the outstanding unauthorised direct debit if it hasnt already been 
paid;
Pay interest at 8% simple on this amount from the date they should have refunded it 
(when A initially raised the claim) up to the date they do refund it;
Pay A £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman