DRN-3854792
The complaint
In April 2017, Mr B invested £10,000 in a three year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond 
with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). He complains that the investment was mis-sold, and 
hes lost his money.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr B invested in a B&G Plc three year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, 
the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 
17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Bs investment in the bond
Mr B was looking to invest part of his pension lump sum to fund his retirement. He read an 
article concerning B&G Plc, made an online enquiry and was then contacted by a BG Ltd 
representative. Over a period of about eight months, Mr B invested in three bonds with 
B&G Plc. 
In this decision I am only considering the sale of the three year Compounding High Yield 
IFISA Bond, which Mr B applied for via the BG Ltd website in April 2017. Gallium was not 
responsible for the sale of the Compounded High Yield Bond Mr B took out in August 2016. 
And Mr B has already received compensation through the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme in relation to the one year Fixed Compounding Pensioner Bond he took out in 
February 2017.
Mr B had very little investment experience or understanding of risk. He has said he held no 
other investments at the time he took out the B&G Plc bonds.
I have been supplied with some call recordings between Mr B and BG Ltd. The calls were 
either after the sale of the bond took place or not material to the outcome of this complaint, 
so Ive not relied on them when reaching my findings.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact 
that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay 
day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into 
administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a 
result, Mr B has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
From the evidence I have seen, Im satisfied that Mr B applied online for the bond. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr B underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr B 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Bs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said Mr B had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Bs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr B as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr B wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr B to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
Mr B for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Bs complaint
Regardless of label, Mr B was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr B giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr B made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for some of the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr B into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr B fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr B, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr B. In the circumstances Mr B would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr B.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr B for his loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr B £250 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Three Year 
Compounding 
High Yield IFISA 
BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr B would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman