DRN-3783327
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) wont refund him multiple payments 
made from his current account as the result of a scam.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr S was involved in a scam. He and his wife (Mrs S) were contacted by 
someone who purported to be from his wifes bank but who we now know to be a fraudster. 
Mrs S was told her account had been compromised and that the funds available in it would 
need to be transferred to a new safe account in order to prevent them being stolen. The 
fraudster told Mr and Mrs S that the best way to do this would be to firstly transfer the 
available funds to Mr Ss account and then on to the newly opened safe account. In total, 
just under £14,000 was transferred into Mr S account from Mrs S account. 
The fraudster then spoke to Mr S, who disclosed his debit card details to the fraudster 
thinking he was speaking with a genuine bank representative. This allowed the fraudster to 
set up three payments totalling £10,400 which left Mr S account on the same day. 
When Mr S realised what had happened, he contacted his bank, HSBC. After some back 
and forth between Mr S and HSBC, Mr S was eventually told that he wouldnt be offered a 
refund due to him having authorised the payments himself. This was confirmed in HSBCs 
final response letter dated 7 October 2021.  
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr S, with the help of a professional representative, 
brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into things but didnt uphold it. 
She said she didnt think Mr S had suffered a financial loss as a result of the scam. She 
pointed out that it was Mrs S funds that had been lost to the fraudster. The funds had come 
from Mrs S account and had simply been moved on to the fraudsters account from Mr S 
HSBC account. For this reason, she didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC 
to offer Mr S a refund of over £10,000 when he hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of 
the scam. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said the payments were unusual and out 
of character when compared to his usual spending and shouldve been picked up by HSBCs 
fraud monitoring systems and prevented. He pointed out that the point of loss in this case 
was when the payments left his account and so he felt it was these payments and HSBCs 
corresponding obligations in regard to them that should be the subject of this complaint. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
Having reviewed all of the available evidence, I wrote to Mr S representatives to say that I 
agreed with our Investigator that Mr S had not suffered a financial loss as a result of this 
particular scam. Mr S representatives disagreed. They reiterated that it was the payments 
that left Mr S account which resulted in the financial loss that occurred. And they reiterated 
that they felt HSBC had failed to query these payments when it shouldve been monitoring 
the account for fraud. For these reasons, Mr S representatives requested a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr S was involved in a cruel scam and that it was the three 
payments that left his HSBC current account that resulted in the fraudsters gaining 
access to the funds transferred to him by his wife. 
However, this is a complaint being brought by Mr S in his sole capacity. And I am not 
persuaded that Mr S has suffered a financial loss as a result of his involvement in the 
scam.
The funds lost to the fraudsters belonged to Mrs S and Mr and Mrs S are separate 
legal entities. The funds were transferred from an account held in Mrs S sole name 
and it was these funds that were ultimately lost to the fraudsters. It is Mrs S who is 
out of pocket because of this scam, not Mr S.
So, whilst I appreciate that the funds were moved through Mr Ss account and on to 
the fraudsters from there, and it was at this point they became irretrievable, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to recommend that HSBC now pay Mr S £10,400 when he 
isnt out of pocket by this amount. 
The key consideration in the particular circumstances of this case is not when the 
point of loss occurred as put forward by Mr S representatives but who has suffered 
the financial loss in the first place. 
So, whilst Ive taken on board all of the evidence and arguments provided, even if I 
were to be persuaded that HSBC had made an error here, Im still not persuaded that 
it would be fair and reasonable to recommend HSBC offer Mr S a refund of the funds 
lost. The role of The Financial Ombudsman Service is to place customers in the 
position they would have been in but for the error taking place and in this particular 
case, Mr S is already in that position as no losses were occurred by him as a result of 
the scam. It would not be reasonable for me to recommend HSBC pay redress to a 
party who has suffered no actual financial losses. It is also not reasonable for me to 
ask HSBC to pay financial redress to someone on behalf of someone else. For these 
reasons, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.  
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr S has found himself in. But Im not persuaded 
he has suffered a financial loss here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman