DRN-2230203
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund disputed transactions made 
from her credit card account.
What happened
Miss A took out a credit card with Capital One in June 2019. 
In June 2019 Mrs As card and PIN were intercepted, and her full balance was spent. 
Capital One investigated and concluded that Miss A didnt authorise the transactions and 
removed the payments from her account. 
On reporting the disputed transactions Miss A had a conversation with a Capital One advisor 
and arranged for a new card and PIN to be delivered. On the 10 July 2019 a new card and 
PIN were sent to Miss A. 
Miss A phoned Capital One in October 2019 to report that she hadnt received her new PIN.  
During the phone call Miss A was advised that transactions totalling £730 had been carried 
out in September 2019 which she confirmed she hadnt authorised. Miss A explained that 
she had received her credit card in the post  but she later found out that accidentally 
Capital One had sent out a duplicate card. 
Miss A complained to Capital One, but they concluded Miss A authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. Capital One confirmed theyd made a mistake in sending out two credit cards to 
Miss A on the 10 July 2019 which explains why shes in possession of a Capital One card. 
They paid Miss A £20 in compensation for this. But the bank explained that the spending 
pattern doesnt fit that of a fraudster and theres no evidence of a PIN compromise. 
Miss A didnt accept Capital Ones response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss As complaint but they thought it 
more likely than not Miss A authorised the disputed transactions. In summary they said:
-A fraudster would have needed to intercept both the credit card and the PIN.
-Theyd have needed to know Miss As date of birth.
-The activity doesnt fit what theyd expect from a fraudster.
Miss A didnt accept our investigators conclusions. And in response said:
-When she spoke with Capital One she was suffering from mental health difficulties so 
didnt realise they were sending a new card. 
-She didnt receive any statements to advise her of the transactions and hadnt been 
opening post. 
-At the time of the transactions she wasnt anywhere near the locations they were 
carried out. 
-Her personal details are available on Social Media. 
-She tried to get hold of CCTV for the transactions; and
-She would have contacted the police but her brother was very unwell at the time. 
Because Miss A didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Capital One can hold Miss A liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss As genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable them to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss A consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Capital One to conclude that Miss A 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Miss As card and PIN. Ive seen evidence from Capital One that two cards and a 
new PIN were sent to Miss As address in July 2019  after the first transactions 
which the bank agree were fraud. Miss A has explained she had one of the cards in 
her possession but I accept its possible that both the other card and PIN were 
intercepted by a fraudster  or someone living with Miss A  but I dont find this the 
most likely explanation. I say this because firstly Miss A is confident nobody within 
her household could have carried out the fraud. Secondly if it was someone unknown 
to Miss A who carried out the fraud theyd likely have needed to intercept Miss As 
post on more than one occasion without her noticing. 
Even if I accept someone unknown to Miss A did intercept her card and PIN  theyd 
also need to know Miss As date of birth to activate her card. Miss As explained that 
this is available via Social Media however I find this explanation unlikely. 
When Miss A reports the first fraud to Capital One in July 2019 the advisor discusses 
with her ordering a new card and PIN. I therefore find it surprising that Miss A doesnt 
contact Capital One until October 2019 to advise she hasnt received it. Miss As 
explained that due to her mental health difficulties at the time she struggled to 
concentrate on the phone and didnt realise a new card and PIN had been ordered. 
And she also wasnt checking her post for this reason. I accept this is possible, 
however on the phone Miss A appears to agree that a new card and PIN will be 
ordered and Ive not seen any evidence from Miss A to persuade me her health 
condition led her to have difficulties concentrating.  
I find it strange that if a fraudster did manage to intercept Miss As card and PIN 
theyd wait until September  two months later  before carrying out any transactions. 
The pattern of transactions are also not what Id expect from a fraudster. Usually Id 
expect as much money to be taken as quickly as possible, but this wasnt the case. 
I also find it surprising that no balance checks were attempted prior to the first 
disputed withdrawal.  Ive also considered Miss As points about not reporting the matter to the police, and her 
attempts in trying to obtain CCTV. Miss As explained that because of her brothers illness, 
and the negative impact this had on her mental health, she didnt report the matter to the 
police. I appreciate that Miss As brothers illness was likely very worrying for her however I 
still find it surprising Miss A didnt contact the police considering this is the second fraud 
shes suffered within the space of four months. And on both these occasions shes 
suggested her post was intercepted. Id usually expect someone in these circumstances to 
report their concerns to the police for fear of further fraud. 
Ive thought about whether CCTV would change my conclusions in this case. And Im 
satisfied it wouldnt. I say this because even if the CCTV showed someone other than Miss A 
carrying out the withdrawals the relevant legislation allows Capital One to hold Miss A liable 
if she authorised someone else to carry them out. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss A but for the reasons Ive outlined above I think on 
balance Miss A authorised the disputed transactions, and it follows Capital One are entitled 
to hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman