DRN-2685531
The complaint
Miss S complains that she wasnt advised by Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(MSFS) when her promotional interest rate would end. And she couldnt log onto their 
website.
What happened
Miss S applied for an 18-month interest-free balance transfer offer from MSFS. It expired in 
August 2020.
Miss S complained that she wasnt advised when her interest free period would end, either 
on the website or on her statement. Also, she couldnt access MSFS website regularly.
In March 2020, MSFS said Miss S would see a message on her statement one month before 
the end of the balance transfer period. This would advise the specific date. They suggested 
that Miss S contact their digital support team to resolve her internet banking problems.
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said MSFS had acted fairly. MSFS had 
put a message on Miss Ss statement in July 2020 to say when the promotional rate was 
ending. And also sent her a text message. Miss S had paid off the balance, and so hadnt 
paid any interest. Miss S had called MSFS in September 2020 and had resolved her internet 
banking problem  she needed to download MSFSs mobile app which was needed to 
complete the log on process. She was also sent a physical MSFS pass to do this.
Miss S asked that an ombudsman reviews her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate where Miss S is coming from  she set up an interest free balance transfer 
deal with MSFS and transferred debt to it. She wanted to plan forward when the interest free 
period would end  in order to ensure she repaid the balance and didnt pay any interest.
I can see that MSFS sent Miss S a statement on 8 July 2020. This stated, Your promotional 
interest rate will come to an end on 9/08/2020. I can also see she was sent a text message 
on 18 July 2020  this said, your existing purchase rate is expiring on 09/08/20.existing 
APR will be revised from 0% to 20.9% from 10/08/20. So  I think that MSFS did all they 
could to advise Miss S the deal was ending  and they did this one month ahead of the date. 
Ive seen that Miss S paid off the balance later in July 2020  so didnt pay any interest.
Ive listened to the call Miss S made to MSFS on 9 September 2020  when she said she 
was locked out of internet banking. The call handler unlocked her access and advised her to 
download an MSFS app which should then be used to provide a passcode each time to log 
in. Miss S also asked for physical token to do this  which MSFS sent. Ive seen evidence 
that shes been able to log in successfully since then. So  this aspect of Miss Ss complaint 
was dealt with. On the call, Miss S also changed her direct debit to pay off the full balance 
each month  and Ive seen from the customer notes that this was done.
Ive considered what both Miss S and MSFS have told us  and Im satisfied that MSFS 
acted fairly and reasonably here and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman