DRN-4152858
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr P was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he reported it to his 
insurer, Haven. Mr Ps car was worth less than the amount he owed for the yearly premium 
and the excess due under the policy. In May 2021 Mr P withdrew his claim. But as the third 
party insurer (TPI) pursued a claim for the other drivers losses, Haven defended the claim 
as it obliged to do. 
In April 2022 the TPI withdrew their claim before a planned court hearing date and Haven 
closed the claim. But Haven didnt tell Mr P. He attended court in June 2022 as required and 
this was when he discovered the claim had been withdrawn. 
Mr P complained to Haven. He said it hadnt properly dealt with the claim and hadnt kept 
him updated. He was unhappy that Haven hadnt obtained CCTV footage of the incident. He 
wanted to make a claim for his losses against the TPI. 
In December 2022 Haven said that despite its best efforts, it was unable to obtain CCTV 
information from the local council. Haven said solicitors acting on its behalf emailed it in April 
2022 to advise the claim had been withdrawn. Haven updated the claim and closed it. But it 
didnt inform Mr P. It said this was because Mr P wasnt making a claim for his losses as Mr 
P withdrew his claim in May 2021. 
Although it said it had relayed some misinformation to Mr P when he called for an update in 
June 2022, Haven said it had correctly handled the claim. But it accepted it could have been 
more proactive in updating Mr P when the solicitors advised the claim by the TPI had been 
withdrawn. 
Haven said it was chasing the TPI to settle Mr Ps total loss claim. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He told us he was paying a 
higher premium as a result of the impact on his No Claims Bonus (NCB). He wanted Haven 
to refund the premium difference hes paid since the renewal date of the policy in 2022. 
Mr P told us that Haven had refused to provide proof of his NCB as he had cancelled his 
policy. But Mr P says he didnt cancel it, he chose not to renew it. 
Our Investigator thought Haven should have been more proactive in its handling of the claim. 
She thought Haven had caused a delay in requesting CCTV which might have helped Mr P 
to claim directly against the TPI for his losses. She thought Haven had failed to keep Mr P 
updated on the claim over a considerable period of time. The Investigator could see that 
Haven had recorded on a central database that Mr Ps NCB had been allowed, so not 
impacted by the claim while it was open.
She recommended Haven pay Mr P £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
its delay and poor service caused. 
Haven accepted the Investigators view. Mr P didnt agree. He said the amount of £400 
doesnt cover the increase in premium he has had to pay as a result of Havens handling of 
the claim and its refusal to provide him with proof of his NCB, which he says should be for 4 
years. He said he had to borrow money to pay for his insurance from his family. 
Our Investigator explained that Mr Ps complaint about not being provided with the correct 
NCB proof are new complaints which Mr P could raise with Haven first. 
As Mr P didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Being involved in an incident and having to make a claim can be a stressful experience. An 
insurer should properly investigate a claim and keep a customer updated. It should 
proactively look to resolve the claim as soon as possible. 
Where liability is disputed - as in this case - it can take longer to settle a claim, particularly if 
the matter proceeds to a court hearing. 
When a claim is made, irrespective of who is deemed to be at fault, the excess and the 
balance of the yearly premium is due. This is because the excess is the first payment under 
the claim, and where an insurer has met is obligations to deal with a claim under the policy - 
or provided insurance for the duration of the policy term - the premium is due. 
While a claim is open, it is usual in the insurance industry for the claim to be recorded as a 
fault claim until it is closed - either as a fault or non-fault claim. These terms are used to 
classify on a central database (which most insurers use to record claims) where it has been 
able to recover the costs of the claim or not. So it doesnt necessarily mean the insurer finds 
their policyholder at fault for an incident - but it may not have been able to recover all of the 
costs of the claim. And where this happens, this can have an impact on a policyholders 
NCB. If a customers NCB has been allowed, it means it hasnt been impacted by the 
recording of the claim. 
In this case, the other driver said Mr P was at fault for the incident. Mr P said the other driver 
was. On 5 May 2021 Haven requested CCTV footage from the local council. The local 
council replied on 6 May 2021, asking for a more precise location. Haven didnt respond until 
20 May 2021. As the incident took place on 18 April 2021, when the local council replied, it 
said it no longer held any CCTV coverage for that date. 
Insurers are aware that CCTV footage is generally kept by third parties for around a month, 
so it is evidence that needs to be asked for promptly. While I cant safely conclude as to 
whether the footage would have made a difference to the outcome, I think Haven didnt do 
enough to obtain the footage. 
It isnt clear to me as to whether the solicitor or Haven was responsible for notifying Mr P that 
he no longer needed to attend court - as I dont know what the solicitors communicated to 
Haven in April 2022. But I think Haven as his insurer should have updated Mr P when it 
closed the claim in April 2022. This would have alerted Mr P to the fact that he no longer 
needed to attend court. 
When Mr P discovered Haven had closed the claim, in June 2022 he asked about making a 
claim for his losses. Haven advised Mr P that he could make a claim directly to the third 
party - outside of making a claim against his policy. It provided a copy of its engineers total 
loss report to the TPI on behalf of Mr P. It advised Mr P that it intended to close the claim on 
a joint liability basis - but then said it would close the claim on a non-fault basis. I think Haven could have been clearer in its communication with Mr P about the claim. Its 
records show it has opened and closed the claim several times. It isnt clear to me as to why 
- given that from the outset Mr Ps losses were less than what he would need to pay if he 
claimed under the policy. So the only alternative - irrespective of the outcome of the court 
hearing - was for him to consider claiming directly for any losses from the TPI. I think if 
Haven had been clearer in its communication as to the options open to Mr P sooner, this 
would have reduced the distress, inconvenience and confusion caused. 
I think its important to say that there is no guarantee of success in recovering any losses Mr 
P wishes to claim for - either directly or indirectly from the other driver and their insurer - 
even if Haven had properly handled the claim.
But I think Haven provided a poor service in its handling of the claim and this was 
unreasonable. For this - and the length of time it has taken - I think it should pay Mr P £400 
compensation. 
Haven has told us that it will absorb the solicitors costs for the claim; so these will not be 
recorded as costs under the claim against Mr P on a central database. And when it closes 
the claim, Haven said it will ensure the central database will show the claim as a non-fault 
notification only. This means Mr Ps NCB will not be impacted by the notification - as no 
costs have been recorded against the claim. I think this is fair and reasonable. To treat Mr P 
fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances, Haven should provide 
Mr P with a letter confirming it has closed the claim on this basis when it does so. As things 
stand, I see no reason why Mr Ps claim remains open on the central database - as Haven 
has confirmed how it intends to close the claim - so there is nothing preventing Haven from 
doing this now.
If Mr P believes he has paid a higher premium under a subsequent insurance policy because 
Haven hasnt correctly recorded the number of years NCB he has earned, he will need to 
raise this with Haven - or the broker - first. I can see from Havens notes that on 7 June 2022 
Mr Ps mother called to ask for a refund of premiums for Mr P. Haven advised that Mr P 
would need to contact his broker about the premium he has paid for insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor handling of the claim. 
Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman