DRN-4322748
The complaint
Mr R complains that a new car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) PLC wasnt of satisfactory quality and he wishes to now reject it.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr R ordered a new car from a dealer using his old car in part exchange 
and financing the reminder with a hire purchase agreement via Toyota. He collected his new 
car at the end of June 2022.
Mr R says that around the end of August 2022 there were problems with the navigation 
system that was included within the multi-media system. He says the main problem was the 
system wouldnt upload/recognise an address. He returned the car to the dealership for a fix 
in September 2022 but says he was advised to wait for an update to become available as 
other customers had complained about the same issue and one was expected from the 
manufacturer.
Mr R says he returned to the dealership in October 2022 but was again told the update 
would be forthcoming. He says he was advised to use his phone via the multi-media system 
for navigation in the meantime.
Mr R went back to the dealership in December 2022 and the upgrade was carried out. He 
says this only fixed the problem for a few hours and so he returned to the dealership the 
following day. He was then told to wait for a further update to fix the problems. Mr R became 
concerned about the ongoing problem and contacted both the dealership and Toyota 
seeking to reject the car.
Mr R reported further issues with the navigation system to the dealership in January 2023 
and provided a video. The dealership said they were unable to fix the problem and passed it 
on to the manufacturer. Mr R says he was then asked to take his car back into the 
dealership a few weeks later.
In March 2023, Toyota sent Mr R its final response letter to his complaint. It didnt uphold his 
complaint though did offer, as a gesture of goodwill, reimbursement of one months 
instalment under the agreement. Toyota said that the navigation system had been working at 
the point of supply to Mr R, but that it was several months afterwards the issue with being 
unable to input an address had occurred. Toyota said the address could be inputted via the 
VIA voice command system.  It also said that an update was needed but none had been 
available and when this had eventually been carried out, Mr R hadnt raised any further 
complaints with the dealership. Toyota said that a fault Mr R had reported with the media 
screen freezing which he had said was linked to his mobiles battery couldnt be replicated. It 
also said through a feature provided with the multi-media system, navigation apps could be 
used via his mobile phone to access google maps etc. 
Mr R was unhappy at the response from Toyota and complained to this service. He said that 
the work around using the VIA voice system didnt work and there were issues when he had 
tried to use the apps if his mobile phone had 15% battery or less. He said he wasnt able to 
charge his mobile phone and use the navigation system at the same time.
A further update was made to the cars system in May 2023 and although this fixed the issue 
of the screen freezing it, instead, developed a flicker. Mr R provided a number of videos of 
the problems he was experiencing with the navigation system. Our investigator then asked 
Toyota if it would be willing to arrange an independent inspection of the vehicle to confirm 
the current faults, but it declined. It said it would expect Mr R to take the car back to the 
dealership for an inspection.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld and that it would be 
fair for him to now reject the car. She said that looking at the evidence that had been 
provided, she thought there was a fault with the car. Our investigator said Mr R had reported 
various and reoccurring issues with the multimedia system, some of which had been 
resolved over the past year since the supply of the car. She also said that some new issues 
had emerged, and Mr R had evidenced the current problems with videos showing the 
multimedia system being unresponsive to commands and flickering. Our investigator said 
that it would have been reasonable to have expected the car to have been free from this 
type of defect and that it hadnt of been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply to Mr R.
Our investigator said Toyota should now allow Mr R to reject the car; end the agreement; 
refund his deposit and pay him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him for dealing with the faulty car.
Mr R accepted our investigators view, but Toyota has disagreed. It raised the same issues it 
had in its final response letter to Mr R stating that the dealership had confirmed that at that 
point of sale, the vehicles satellite navigation system was working as it should; that it was 
several months after purchase that they advised the satellite navigation system had 
developed a fault; that the VIA voice command system would have accepted a post code 
and begun the navigation; that the issue had been eventually updated and the customer had 
not complained further of the same problem; that other problems couldnt be replicated and  
that apps could have been accessed. Toyota also said that modern vehicles have many 
mechanical components and sometimes issues could occur that needed to be looked at and 
investigated further in order to rectify the problem. It said software updates might be required 
and to be ongoing for all navigation and media services. Toyota said it didnt agree there 
was a fault with the system that could not be repaired.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.Here the car was brand new and would be expected to be fault free and to remain fault free 
for a reasonable period of time. Im unclear why Toyota makes reference to the fault arising 
several months after purchase as thats not supported by the evidence. Mr R acquired the 
car at the end of June 2022 and had taken it back to the dealership in September 2022. Im 
satisfied the problems with the multi-media system arose within just a few weeks of Mr R 
taking the car.
Toyota also raises that the multi-media system was functional at the point the car was 
supplied to Mr R. I dont think that is disputed by Mr R but looking at how quickly the fault 
arose it appears likely that the problem was either developing at that point or alternatively 
the system wasnt as durable as a reasonable person would have expected. So, even if the 
multi-media system was working when Mr R first took the car, this wouldnt necessarily mean 
the car was of satisfactory quality at that time. 
Ive seen that Mr R took the car back to the dealership and was advised to wait for an update 
to be released by the manufacturer. I appreciate that software updates are required from 
time to time and that these often fix the issue, however I disagree that here the fault has 
been repaired.
Ive seen Mr R has had the updates that were available, but the multimedia system has 
continued to have problems. He has provided videos of the issues he has experienced. Ive 
also seen that he has reported issues to the dealership, so it isnt correct to say he made no 
further complaints after the first update was applied in December 2022. I also appreciate that 
Mr R has been very disappointed by the service he received from the dealership but that 
isnt something that is in my remit to consider. Toyota isnt responsible for how the 
dealership handled Mr Rs complaint, but I do accept that Mr R made more complaints to the 
dealership about the car than Toyota appears to acknowledge.
Ive also seen that Toyota says there were a number of other options via the multi-media 
system that Mr R could use to navigate. However, Mr R has set out that there were issues 
with these, the voice activated system didnt work and he had difficulties using apps such as 
google maps. As Toyota hasnt provided any evidence that the cars multimedia system was 
fault free (save that the dealership had been unable to replicate one issue raised by Mr R 
regarding using his mobile phone) then I think its more likely than not that Mr R has 
experienced a number of issues using the multi-media system for navigation. I also think 
these problems have arisen within a short time of him acquiring the car.
So, on the evidence I have seen, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it 
was supplied however I accept that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the merchant has 
a right of repair. But I think they have had this opportunity and the problems have continued. 
While I accept the issues are slightly different, I dont have any evidence they are entirely 
new ones with their own right of repair, I think its more likely than not that there is a fault 
with the multi-media system, and this has not been fixed.
I therefore think it would be fair for Mr R to now reject the car and for the contract to be 
ended with nothing to pay. Ive seen Mr R has been using the car and, in keeping with the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, I think it is fair he pays for that use, so I wont be asking Toyota 
to reimburse his monthly payments made under the agreement. However, his deposit should 
be return to him.
I also agree with our investigator that dealing with the faulty car has caused Mr R distress 
and inconvenience. I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable when considering the 
impact this has had on him. 
For the reasons give above Im upholding Mr Rs complaint.Putting things right
Im asking Toyota to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr R.
Refund the deposit paid by Mr R together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Rs credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Im asking Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) PLC to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr R.
Refund the deposit paid by Mr R together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Rs credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman