DRN-4296207
The complaint
Mr D complains that hes unable to port the Mortgage Current Account (MCA) he holds with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to a new property. He says he cant afford to move if hes unable to 
retain this feature.
What happened
Mr D has a mortgage he took with Barclays in 2009. The mortgage has an MCA attached to 
it. This works like an overdraft and allows Mr D to borrow additional funds on a flexible basis 
secured on his property. Mr D says he ported the mortgage to a new property in 2013 along 
with the MCA.
Recently, Mr D has decided he wants to move house. He spoke with Barclays to try to port 
the mortgage and the MCA. Barclays has told Mr D that it no longer offers the MCA, so this 
would need to be repaid when he moves house and redeems the existing mortgage, and he 
wouldnt be able to move the MCA to the new property.
Mr D complained to Barclays. He says he believed that the MCA was guaranteed for the 
lifetime of the mortgage and that he should be able to port it to the new property he wishes 
to purchase. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr D referred it to us.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. He didnt think that Barclays has ever 
informed Mr D that the MCA was portable, so he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree with this and asked for the complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman. 
So, its been passed to me to review and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr D feels very strongly about this matter. Hes provided a lot of information 
which he believes supports his complaint. Ive considered everything hes sent us, and all of 
the points hes made when bringing the complaint and when responding to our Investigators 
view. I may not address every point Mr D has made. I hope he realises I mean no disrespect 
by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Instead, Ill focus on the crux 
of the complaint  whether Mr D should be able to port his MCA. 
Ive reviewed the mortgage offer, the mortgage terms and conditions and the MCA terms 
and conditions. None of these suggest that the MCA is guaranteed to be ported to a new 
property. In fact, the mortgage offer clearly says:
The Mortgage Current Account Reserve must be repaid in full if the main mortgage is repaid 
in full.
So, Im satisfied that porting of the MCA was not a guaranteed feature of this mortgage. 
Mr D has said that he previously ported the MCA. But what I think likely happened was the 
previous MCA was repaid and a new one set up for the new mortgage because, at the time, 
Barclays still offered the MCA for new mortgages. Now that Barclays no longer offers the 
MCA, this cant be done. 
Mr D believes that the MCA was guaranteed to last for the lifetime of the mortgage. 
However, this is because Mr D is considering his mortgage as one contract which he 
effectively moves to new properties when he ports it. But this isnt correct. When a mortgage 
is ported, its the mortgage product that is ported, for example a fixed rate. So, what is 
actually happening is the existing mortgage is repaid and a new mortgage is set up. Its 
purely the rate that is moved to the new mortgage or ported. 
So, once the existing mortgage is redeemed, that mortgage has ended. And the offer sets 
out that the MCA must be repaid when the mortgage is redeemed. I understand that 
Mr D considers the lifetime of the mortgage to be how long he holds the mortgage for, 
regardless of the property its secured over. But thats not how porting works. Each time a 
mortgage is ported, the existing mortgage is redeemed, and a new contract is started. Now 
that Barclays no longer offers an MCA, a new one cant be set up for what would effectively 
be a new mortgage. And theres no requirement for Barclays to continue to offer products if it 
chooses not to. 
Mr D has said Barclays has never told him that it no longer offered an MCA. Barclays will 
change the products it does and doesnt offer over time. Its entitled to do so, and I dont 
think it was required to make Mr D aware of this when it withdrew the product as this 
wouldnt have had an impact on him at the time. And even if Barclays had made Mr D aware 
that it was withdrawing the MCA for new mortgages, I cant see that he wouldve acted 
differently and theres nothing he couldve done to have prevented the withdrawal of the 
MCA for future mortgage applications. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr D. As Ive said, he clearly feels strongly about this matter. But 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the MCA was guaranteed to be portable on request or that 
Barclays led Mr D to believe this. So, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong here.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman