DRN-4234431
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how her insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco), handled a 
claim under her motor insurance policy following an accident involving her vehicle. 
Any reference to Tesco in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs Ws vehicle was involved in a collision with another vehicle (liability for 
accident was subsequently accepted by the third partys insurer). She contacted Tesco to tell 
them about the accident and lodge a claim. Tesco sent an engineer to assess the damage to 
the vehicle. Due to the extent of the damage and the age and mileage of the vehicle, Tesco 
assessed the vehicle as a total loss. Mrs W was provided with a courtesy car under the 
terms of her policy (although not until five days after the accident but was extended to shortly 
after she subsequently accepted Tescos interim payment offer).
They offered an interim payment for the vehicle based on a value of £5,500 (less £400 policy 
excess, leaving a net settlement of £5,100). Mrs W declined the offer (but advised she might 
want to retain the vehicle as salvage). Being unhappy with the valuation of her vehicle, she 
complained to Tesco. They didnt uphold the complaint, saying they thought the valuation of 
£5,500 was a fair reflection of the market value of the vehicle (which was increased by £400 
to reflect the vehicle having a below average mileage for its age). Tesco also referred to two 
recognised industry valuation guides which (on a retail value basis) provided valuations of 
£5,040 and £4,975. But considering current market valuation trends, Tesco considered the 
valuation of £5,500 was fair.
A few days later Mrs W accepted the offer but said she didnt want to retain the salvage. 
Tesco advised her the vehicle would be disposed of (although Mrs W maintained shed been 
told the vehicle would be scrapped). A week later Mrs W contacted Tesco to say she wanted 
to retain the salvage, but Tesco said the vehicle had been disposed of.by the salvage 
company (given shed indicated she didnt want to keep it). 
Mrs W subsequently purchased a replacement vehicle (at a higher cost than the settlement 
received for her old vehicle). When she informed Tesco of the new vehicle, she was told the 
policy premium would increase significantly (she said nearly doubled). But if she cancelled 
the policy Tesco would retain the full years premium. Mrs W said she felt pressured into 
staying with Tesco. Tesco subsequently said that as a claim was outstanding at the time 
(and liability not determined) if Mrs W chose to cancel her policy they would (under the policy 
terms and conditions) be able to keep the full premium, pending the outcome of the claim 
(and liability).
Mrs W was also unhappy with the courtesy car provided, as it wasnt large enough for the 
needs of her family. She complained to Tesco about it, and they refunded that part of the 
premium shed paid for an upgraded courtesy car. They also provided a larger courtesy car.
Mrs W was subsequently contacted in October 2022 by a third party (whod bought the 
vehicle as salvage) asking Mrs W for the codes for the vehicles entertainment unit. Unhappy 
at being told the vehicle would be scrapped but then being contacted by a third party, Mrs W 
raised a separate complaint. 
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint, referring to the call where Mrs W accepted the interim 
payment and said she didnt want to keep the vehicle. Tesco said Mrs W was told the vehicle 
would be disposed of (not scrapped) and noted the vehicle was collected by their salvage 
agent two days later (five days before Mrs W called Tesco to say she wanted to keep the 
vehicle. Tesco said that once the interim payment was made (and the vehicle collected by 
the salvage agent) they couldnt allow Mrs W to keep the vehicle. At that point, it was for the 
salvage agent to dispose of the vehicle (either by selling or scrapping it).
Mrs W then complained to this service. Her complaint contained several elements, including: 
the valuation of her vehicle as a total loss; her not being able to keep her vehicle and it 
subsequently being disposed of to a third party (who contacted her for the entertainment unit 
code); issues with the courtesy car provided after the accident; the continuation of her policy 
(when she purchased a replacement vehicle) and the increase in premium.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought Tescos valuation was fair, based 
on recognised industry valuation guide figures. On the car being disposed of, she noted Mrs 
W had said she didnt want to keep the vehicle (when accepting the interim payment). And 
the vehicle was then collected by the salvage agent, who sold it. Mrs W was told the car 
would be disposed of (but not scrapped). So, the investigator concluded Tesco hadnt done 
anything wrong (as the vehicle became their property once Mrs W accepted the interim 
payment, so it was up to them to determine how to dispose of it). On being contacted by the 
third-party purchaser of the vehicle, as there wasnt any direct evidence to support this (and 
Tesco and the salvage agent denied passing on Mrs Ws details) the investigator wasnt able 
to conclude on the issue. 
On the courtesy car issues, the investigator noted Tesco had refunded the upgraded 
courtesy car premium and provided a larger vehicle (an equivalent size) when she 
complained. And the hire was extended. So, the investigator wouldnt be asking Tesco to 
take any further action. 
On the continuation of the policy (at a higher premium) the investigator concluded the 
incidence of a claim would have likely increased the premium (given liability was only 
accepted by the third-party insurer sometime later). But the call handler didnt tell Mrs W that 
should the claim be settled as non-fault (which it subsequently was) she would only be 
charged for the time on cover (had she chosen to cancel) and not charged the full years 
premium. As Mrs W wasnt made aware of this, she could have cancelled her policy (and 
found cheaper cover elsewhere) and then received a repayment of the full year premium 
(adjusted for time on cover). The investigator thought Tesco should recalculate the premium 
based on the claim subsequently being settled as no-fault (and add interest). For the distress 
and inconvenience this had caused Mrs W, Tesco should pay £100 compensation.
As Tesco didnt respond to the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly towards Mrs W.
There are several issues in Mrs Ws complaint, which Ill consider in turn.Valuation of the vehicle
On the issue of the valuation of Mrs Ws vehicle, Ive considered the information and 
evidence available. Tesco say their market valuation (which is what the policy provides for 
when a vehicle is deemed a total loss) is fair and reasonable, citing industry valuation guide 
figures to support their valuation of £5,500 (based on figures of £5,040 and £4,975 from two 
guides). Tesco also applied an uplift to reflect Mrs Ws vehicle having lower than average 
mileage for its age. 
Ive also looked the valuation figures from the recognised industry guides used by this 
service (two of which are those used by Tesco). Discounting one that is significantly different 
from the other three, the average of the three is £5,344. Which is slightly less than the 
valuation used by Tesco. So, Ive concluded Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in making an 
offer based on a valuation of £5,500. And it would be in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions for the policy excess (£400 in this case) to be deducted from the valuation to 
determine a settlement figure (which is what Tesco did). 
When the claim was subsequently settled on a no-fault basis (the third-party insurer 
accepted liability) the excess deduction would be considered an uninsured loss and would 
need to be pursued with the third-party insurer (I believe Mrs W had legal expenses cover on 
her policy, which she could consider for this purpose).
Disposal of the vehicle
Mrs W is unhappy she couldnt keep the vehicle after it was declared a total loss, saying she 
was told it would be scrapped (so she couldnt keep it). Tesco say she was told it was to be 
disposed of (not scrapped). And as the vehicle was collected two days after the interim 
payment was accepted (and Mrs W had indicated she didnt want to keep the vehicle) then 
they acted fairly in accordance with standard practice.
Looking at what happened, Mrs W was told (when she contacted Tesco to accept their offer 
 and that she didnt want to keep the vehicle) the vehicle was to be disposed of (not 
scrapped). And as shed indicate she didnt want to keep it, I think it was reasonable for 
Tesco to then arrange for their salvage agent to collect it and dispose of it. Having accepted 
Tescos interim payment for the vehicle, it then became the property of Tesco and so their 
decision what to do with it. Disposing of it through their salvage agent is reasonable in the 
circumstances. It would then be for the agent to determine what to do with the vehicle. In this 
case (given the damage category to which the vehicle was assigned by the engineer who 
inspected it) it wasnt unreasonable for the vehicle to be sold (as was the case). So, Ive 
concluded Tesco havent done anything unfair or unreasonable.
On the point about Mrs W being contacted by the new third-party owner, Ive not seen 
evidence to indicate this happened (other than Mrs W telling us she was contacted). While 
Im not doubting what shes said, Tesco (and the salvage agent) have denied passing on her 
contact details. So, without clear evidence it was Tesco  which may be less likely as the 
sale of the vehicle would have been carried out by the salvage agent  I cant reasonably 
conclude theyve acted unreasonably.
Courtesy car
Mrs W is unhappy at the provision of a courtesy car, saying it was too small for her needs. 
And it was only upgraded when she complained. While Tesco havent formally responded to 
this issue as part of their final response, Ive considered what the information and evidence 
indicates about this issue. From what Ive seen, Mrs W had taken out (at an additional premium) an option for an upgraded courtesy car. There were issues locating a suitable 
courtesy car until a few days after the accident. Abd this was subsequently changed when 
Mrs W complained it wasnt large enough to accommodate the needs of her family. The hire 
period was also extended for a few days after she accepted the interim payment (at which 
point the entitlement to a courtesy car would have ended). Mrs W was also refunded the 
additional premium shed paid for an upgraded courtesy car.
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded Tesco acted fairly and reasonably. As 
she didnt receive (at least initially) the upgraded courtesy car for which shed paid an 
additional premium, I think its fair that premium was refunded. And extending the hire period 
would compensate for the initial delay in locating a car.
Continuing cover and increased premium
Mrs W said she felt pressured into continuing her policy with Tesco after the accident, when 
she purchased a replacement vehicle and contacted Tesco to add it to the policy. Shes also 
unhappy at the additional premium she was charged when adding her replacement vehicle. 
Ive considered both elements. Taking the additional premium issue first, at the point she 
added her replacement vehicle it wasnt clear what the liability outcome would be (it was later 
determined to be the fault of the third-party). So, having an outstanding claim where liability 
hadnt been established would have been likely to lead to an increase in premium. While I 
havent seen any precise impact, it appears Mrs Ws replacement vehicle was a newer 
version of the same (or similar) model. She says it cost her £12,000 (compared to the 
valuation of her vehicle of £5,500). As a more valuable vehicle, this may also have led to a 
premium increase. 
Ultimately, its a commercial decision for Tesco about the level of premium they charge for a 
policy, taking account of the assessed level of risk and other factors. Which would include 
the vehicle being insured and the claims history. So, I cant conclude it was unfair or 
unreasonable for them to have charged an increased premium.
On the other issue, of Mrs W feeling pressured into continuing her policy with Tesco (as 
opposed to cancelling it and taking out cover elsewhere  which she says would have been 
cheaper) Ive also considered the information and evidence available.
It appears Mrs W was told by Tesco that if she cancelled her policy, they would keep the full 
annual premium for the policy. This would be the case under the terms of the policy where 
(as there was at the time) an outstanding claim on the policy, where liability hadnt been 
determined. But it would only have been the case should liability be determined against Mrs 
W  not if she was held not to be at fault. In that eventuality, she would (if shed cancelled) 
only be charged for the time shed been on cover under the policy. 
However, this wasnt made clear to Mrs W when she contacted Tesco  she made in clear in 
the call she didnt think she was a t fault for the accident. So, she decided to continue with 
the Tesco policy and pay the additional premium, rather than cancel and (as she thought) 
obtain cheaper cover elsewhere. 
From the case notes provided by Tesco, it appears they acknowledge they should have 
made it clear to Mrs W that if she cancelled the policy (and was subsequently found not to be 
at fault for the accident) shed only be charged for the period on cover. As she wasnt told 
this, she wasnt able to exercise this option. Ive concluded Tesco should have made this 
clear, particularly given Mrs Ws insistence she wasnt at fault. So, they havent acted fairly or 
reasonably in this respect.Given this conclusion, Ive thought about what Tesco should do to put things right. I think 
Tesco should carry out a recalculation of the premium as if the claim had been recorded 
correctly (as a non-fault claim) and refund the difference.to Mrs W. Interest, at a rate of 8% 
simple, should be added to the sum. Tesco should also pay Mrs W £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part. I 
require Tesco Insurance Company Limited to:  
Carry out a recalculation of the premium as if the claim had been recorded 
correctly (as a non-fault claim) and refund the difference.to Mrs W. Interest. 
Pay Mrs W £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Tesco Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mrs W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman