DRN-4482173
The complaint
Mr A complains that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company avoided his 
home insurance policy and didnt deal with a claim he made on it after a theft.
Reference to Chaucer includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A held a home insurance policy with Chaucer. After some jewellery was stolen, he made 
a claim to Chaucer.
Chaucer thought Mr A had made a misrepresentation when taking out his policy. It thought 
hed answered the question about how much his contents were valued at incorrectly. It 
thought this because it valued his jewellery at £93,000, more than the £80,000 Mr A had said 
all his contents were worth.
It said had it known Mr As contents exceeded £80,000 it wouldnt have offered him cover. It 
said this allowed it to cancel the policy from the start  or avoid it (act like it didnt exist). And 
because of this, it said there was no policy for Mr A to claim from, so it didnt deal with his 
claim.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained. He thought Chaucer had exaggerated the 
cost of his jewellery and maintained it was worth what he said it was when he took the policy 
out.
Chaucer didnt change its stance, so, Mr A brought his complaint to us.
One of our Investigators recommended it be upheld. She didnt think Chaucer had shown 
what Mr A was asked when he took the policy out. But she ultimately thought Mr As answer 
to how much hi contents were worth was reasonable. So, she recommended Chaucer 
effectively reinstate his policy and assess his claim in line with it.
Chaucer didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Chaucer has said Mr A failed to take reasonable care when answering the question 
about how much his contents were worth. Its said this failure meant it offered him a 
policy it wouldnt have offered otherwise. It says this is a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
And it says this allows it to take the action it has.
But Im not satisfied CIDRA applies here. Mr A was asked how much his contents 
were worth, and thats a matter of opinion not fact. Because of this, I dont think 
CIDRA strictly applies. That said, its often fair to apply its principles to determine a 
fair answer.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Mr A gave an unreasonable answer when he said his 
contents were worth £80,000. I appreciate Chaucer thinks differently based on it 
valuing the jewellery alone at £93,000  and I dont question that valuation. But Mr A 
has provided explanation of why he thinks the jewellery is worth significantly less. 
Hes provided receipts from purchase and plausible explanation of why he values the 
jewellery less than Chaucer. And Ive not been provided anything to show the value 
of the other contents of Mr As home.
So, because Im satisfied Mr A gave a reasonable answer, this is the equivalent of 
him not failing to take reasonable care under CIDRA. Under CIDRA Chaucer 
wouldnt be able to take any action and so I find it was unfair for it to have taken the 
action it did here.
Putting things right
Chaucer should therefore effectively reinstate the policy and consider Mr As claim in line 
with the remaining terms. Should the claim be paid, Chaucer would be entitled to deduct any 
excesses from the claim. And it would, after deducting those excess be able to apply the 
policy limits.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Chaucer Insurance 
Company Designated Activity Company to:
Effectively reinstate Mr As policy. And,
Assess his claim in line with the remaining terms.
If the claim is successful, it can deduct policy excesses and then apply any policy 
limits.
If its returned any premium to Mr A, its entitled to deduct this from any claim 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman