DRN-2627834
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) has refused to refund some of the annual fee he paid for his 
Platinum charge card account.  
What happened
Mr R held an Amex Platinum charge card account. The annual fee for the card is £575 and 
this was charged to his account in June 2019.
The card comes with several benefits including: reward points on eligible spending 
transactions and associated travel benefits such as travel insurance, emergency medical 
insurance and airport lounge access. 
Mr R contacted Amex in June 2020 to ask for a pro-rata refund of the fee as hed been 
unable to benefit from the travel associated benefits linked to the card due to the covid-19 
pandemic and associated lockdown restrictions.
Before Amex could formally respond to Mr Rs complaint, he referred the matter to this 
service. In addition to his complaint about the account fee, Mr R also said that hed 
requested a call back from a manager in relation to his complaint, but a manager had not 
returned his call.
Amex provided this service with its response to Mr Rs complaint and it also issued Mr R with 
its Final Response letter (FRL) dated 6 July 2020.
Amex didnt agree to offer Mr R a refund. It acknowledged the circumstances he had 
described regarding the impact the lockdown restrictions. But it said that it regularly reviewed 
the account benefits to ensure value for money and had added a double points promotion on 
eligible spending and a £5 statement credit for every £10 or more spent in participating 
retailers. 
It noted that Mr R had told it that he couldnt use these benefits as he was in France. But 
Amex says it couldnt help further with this as Mr R held a UK based card. But it did offer to 
add 20,000 reward points to his card as a gesture of goodwill. It also said that Mr R did 
subsequently receive a call from a manager as he had requested.
Mr R remained unhappy with Amexs response saying the added benefits didnt compensate 
for not being able to use the associated travel benefits as he would need to spend more on 
the card to benefit from them  which wasnt the case with the travel benefits. 
One of our investigators looked into what Mr R had said. But he didnt think Amex had done 
anything wrong. He said the account fee covered a wide range of benefits and there wasnt a 
breakdown of how much of the fee could be apportioned to each benefit. He also said that 
Amexs records show that several attempts were made to discuss Mr Rs complaint with him 
on the phone and that, ultimately, he did discuss it with a manager. So, he didnt uphold      
Mr Rs complaint. He thought adding 20,000 reward points to Mr Rs account was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr R didnt agree. He said, in summary, that Amex offered a range of accounts with varying 
annual fees depending on the benefits each account offered. So, he felt the cost of the travel 
benefits could be fairly determined. He also provided a calculation of what he thought was a 
reasonable pro-rata refund would be based on this information. And he said this equated to 
more than what 20,000 rewards were worth.    
Our investigator considered what Mr R had said. But he didnt think this changed the 
outcome he had reached. He remained of the view that the benefits werent individually 
charged for and the fee applied to the overall package. He recognised some of these 
features were of no use to Mr R during the lockdown. But he didnt think the travel 
restrictions imposed by the government during this period was something he could hold 
Amex responsible for. He also noted that the terms of the account allowed for Mr R to 
change his account to a basic account at any time and receive a pro-rata refund.
Mr R still disagreed. In summary he said Amex was wrong to charge for benefits account 
holders couldnt use. And that Amex didnt mention swapping to a basic card when it dealt 
with his complaint. 
He asked for his complaint to be escalated. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. In order to 
uphold this complaint, I would have to find that Amex has done something wrong or treated 
Mr R unfairly - and I dont think it did. I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision 
because I can see how strongly he feels about the matter, so Ill explain why.
I can see why Mr R feels that the cost of the account can be apportioned to the individual 
benefits. But, like the investigator, I think the intention with accounts of this type is that the 
annual fee applicable is for the account as a whole. And, when one of these accounts is 
taken out, its not expected that every account holder will be interested in, or indeed use, 
every benefit. 
When such an account is opened, I think it is for the customer to decide if the annual fee 
represents good value for the benefits they are interested in and intend to use. And that 
remains the case throughout the life of the account. 
I dont dispute that Mr R may have taken this account mainly for the travel benefits and that 
he fully intended to use them - had circumstances beyond his control not prevented him from 
doing so. But Ive not seen anything that would make me think that Amex was obliged to 
automatically offer a pro-rata refund on the basis that travel restrictions were imposed due to 
the pandemic.
I think it was for Mr R to decide  when the pandemic started and the travel restrictions were 
imposed, if the account fee still represented good value for the benefits he could still make 
use of during this time. And if he didnt think this was the case, I think it was for him to 
contact Amex and request a different type of account or close his account. Mr R says Amex didnt suggest closing/changing his account to him. But having reviewed 
the account terms and conditions, I think this option is made clear. Had Mr R contacted 
Amex about this when the pandemic first started, I might have expected it to remind him of 
that option. But here, Mr R first contacted Amex about this issue in June 2020  when the 
annual fee was now due for renewal. And after hed held the account for the full 12 months 
the fee applied to. So, I dont think Amex was under any obligation to mention this at this 
point. But its my understanding that Mr R has since utilised this option in respect to the new 
annual fee which was applicable in June 2020. And he received a pro-rata refund on this fee 
in December 2020.
Overall, I appreciate Mr Rs disappointment at not being able to fully use the travel insurance 
benefits during the whole 2019/2020 period. But I dont think Amex was obliged to reduce 
the cost of the Platinum account or automatically offer a pro-rata refund unless the account 
holder approached it for a downgrade of the account or to close the account in line with the 
terms of the account. 
I note that Mr R told us when he first brought his complaint to us that a manager had not 
called him to discuss his concerns as he had requested. But I dont need to make a finding 
on this as it seems that Mr R did subsequently receive a call, which is what I would have 
expected to happen. 
I also note that Amex credited Mr Rs account with 20,000 additional reward points. As Ive 
not found that Amex has done anything wrong, I think this is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman