DRN-1388703
 
The complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Allianz Insurance Plcs accepted responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this 
complaint. 
What happened
Miss C applied for a store card in 1997. The PPI was sold to her at the same time. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the cards monthly outstanding balance. It would have paid 
15% of the monthly outstanding balance (at the start of a claim) if Miss C was off work sick 
or became unemployed. And it would potentially have continued to pay until the outstanding 
balance had been paid off. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss C didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz ought to have informed Miss C that the PPI was optional and get her agreement 
before adding it. Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Miss C signed, which 
included a separate section for PPI. In that section, Miss C ticked a box  which she could 
have left unticked  to take PPI and she printed her name as the person to be insured. 
Overall, I think Miss C was made aware she was being sold optional PPI and that she 
agreed to take it.
I dont think Allianz advised Miss C to take the PPI in the sense that I dont think it gave her a 
personal recommendation based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, I dont 
think it needed to take steps to ensure the PPI was right for Miss C. 
But Allianz still had to give Miss C clear, fair and not misleading information so she could 
make up her own mind about whether the PPI was right for her. I cant say for sure if that 
happened, but I dont think having better information would have put Miss C off taking out 
the PPI in any case. I say that because, for example:
It seems Miss C was eligible for the cover. And that she wasnt significantly affected 
by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.The PPI provided a relatively high level of benefit per month for a prolonged period, 
and at a relatively low cost. Potentially, it would have continued to pay out until the 
outstanding balance was paid off. So, I think she still would have seen the PPI as 
worth having despite the generous sick pay package she says she was entitled to.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss C would have found the regular premium 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that she could have cancelled it at any time, 
and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Miss Cs lost out because of how Allianz sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman