DRN-3685348
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Company Limited (RSA) unfairly avoided her 
home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim. 
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Mrs S took out a home insurance contents policy with RSA. The policy was purchased 
online. 
When her mobile phone was stolen, she tried to make a claim on her policy.
RSA did not pay her claim. It said during the online application process Mrs S answered the 
question it asked about bankruptcy incorrectly. It said Mrs S confirmed that neither her, or 
her family, had been declared bankrupt in the last five years. However during the process to 
validate her claim it was found that a family member had been declared bankrupt within this 
timeframe. 
Aviva considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her 
policy and decline her claim.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and they believed it was careless. 
They thought RSA were entitled to avoid Mrs Ss policy and decline her claim. They said 
RSA should return the premium shed paid.
Mrs S doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
said she did not remember that the bankruptcy question had been asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA thinks Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
didnt declare information about a bankruptcy when she took out her policy.   
Mrs S said she did not think she had been asked about bankruptcy at the start of her policy. 
Ive looked at the online application and Mrs S was asked to answer yes or no to the 
following:
Our home insurance is issued on the basis that you can confirm that the following 
statements are true, to the best of your knowledge:
You and your family HAVE NOT:
Got a criminal record for anything (except for driving and speeding) that you are still 
required to disclose.
Had any insurance refused cancelled, declined or declared void.
Been declared bankrupt in the last 5 years.
Ive read and agree with the declaration and statements above and accept the conditions of 
the policy.
There was an option to answer either yes or no. Mrs S answered yes.
Included within the statement of facts document produced and sent to Mrs S, it says: You or 
your family haven't been declared bankrupt in the last 5 years.
Based on the evidence I have seen I do not think Mrs S took reasonable care to respond to 
the statement about bankruptcy accurately. I think the words in the declaration were clear 
and required only a yes or no response. And the statement of facts sent with the policy 
documents at the start of the policy clearly confirmed Mrs S had answered that neither 
herself or her family had been declared bankrupt in the last five years. 
RSA provided evidence of its underwriting criteria. I saw if Mrs S had not made the 
misrepresentation about the family bankruptcy that RSA would never have offered her cover.
This means Im satisfied Mrs Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
RSA has treated Mrs Ss misrepresentation as careless. I agree this is the fair decision in 
this case.
As Im satisfied Mrs Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions RSA can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
In this case, RSA would not have offered cover. Therefore it avoided Mrs Ss policy, declined 
her claim, and refunded her premiums.
I agree with the actions taken as they are in accordance with remedies detailed in CIDRA for 
careless misrepresentation.
Im satisfied RSA was entitled to avoid Mrs Ss policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as 
this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, RSA does not have to deal with her 
claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing RSA to rely on it to avoid Mrs Ss policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman