DRN-2419752
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Zurich Assurance Ltds decision to decline his claim under his 
employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K was employed by a particular company (which Ill call N) and was a member of its 
group income protection insurance policy, held with Zurich. The policy would pay a regular 
benefit, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, in the event that Mr K was unable to do his job 
due to illness or injury.
In April 2019, Mr K stopped working due to workplace stress and associated symptoms. He 
remained off work and eventually N made a claim on his behalf under the policy.
In October 2019, after speaking to Mr K and N, and having seen Mr Ks medical fit notes 
issued by his GP, Zurich declined the claim. It considered that Mr K was suffering from 
workplace stress and that he did not meet the policys definition of incapacity.
Mr K appealed against Zurichs decision. In November 2019, after obtaining Mr Ks GP 
records, Zurich maintained its decision to decline the claim. It continued to believe that 
workplace issues were the root cause of Mr Ks absence. 
Mr K complained to Zurich about its decision. In January 2020, Zurich a final response letter 
not upholding the complaint. It was satisfied it had acted fairly and that if the workplace 
issues were resolved, Mr K would be able to return to his job.
Mr K was unhappy at Zurichs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
it had been fair for Zurich to decline the claim.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that even if workplace stress 
had triggered his symptoms, he was nonetheless medically prevented from working and thus 
met the policys definition of incapacity. He submitted a large volume of evidence, including 
phone recordings and medical reports, in support of his case.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Mr K to be eligible to receive benefit, he needs to show that he met the policys definition 
of incapacity throughout the deferred period, which means the period from when he stopped 
working in April 2019 to October 2019.
The policy defines incapacity as:
an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable to work and is applicable under this 
policy. The Incapacity definition that applies is in your policy schedule
The incapacity definition which applies to Mr K is:
The Member cannot perform the Material and Substantial Duties of their employment and 
they are not doing any paid work
In the period before he stopped working, Mr K had seen his GP about abdominal pain which 
appeared to be caused, or at least exacerbated, by workplace stress.
At around the time he stopped working, Mr K issued a grievance against N over a change in 
his line management.
When he stopped working, Mr K complained to his GP of the ongoing abdominal pain as well 
as other symptoms. His GP certified him as unfit to work due to abdominal pain, headaches 
and stress.
For the duration of the deferred period, Mr Ks symptoms were essentially the ongoing 
abdominal pain, a pain in the back of his head, and poor sleep. His GP attributed these to 
stress or workplace stress and issued medical fit notes accordingly.
It certainly appears that Mr Ks symptoms were brought on by his workplace stress. There 
are a number of references in the GP notes in which Mr K described how the symptoms 
eased when he didnt think about work but worsened when he thought about returning. And 
in April 2019, shortly after he had become absent, the GP recorded:
Has now accepted that he needs to change work, toxic environment. Is considering his 
other options.
Zurichs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) considered that the root cause of Mr Ks absence was 
not an illness but the unresolved workplace stress. It was on this basis that Zurich declined 
the claim.
I appreciate that Mr K was experiencing distressing symptoms but on balance I consider it 
was fair for Zurich to take this approach. The indications are that, at least for the first part of 
the deferred period, Mr Ks absence was primarily because of an employment issue rather 
than a medical issue. It seems that it was the workplace dispute which precipitated his 
absence by triggering his symptoms and that, unless and until that was resolved, it was 
unlikely he would be able to return to work.
The policy is there to provide benefit in case someone is too ill to work but I dont consider 
that Zurich should necessarily have to provide benefit when the real problem is a dispute 
between the employer and the employee. Zurichs CMO considered that once the workplace 
issue was resolved, Mr K would be able to return to work. Alternatively, if Mr K had left his 
place of his employment, which was the source of his stress, he would have been fit to go 
and do his job for another employer. I think this was a reasonable assessment based on the 
medical evidence and that Mr Ks stress-related symptoms did not constitute an 
incapacitating illness, despite the fact that his GP was certifying him as unfit to work.
Mr K has submitted medical evidence from beyond the end of the deferred period. However, 
while I appreciate that Mr Ks may have developed an illness the longer he was off work, the 
relevant period for the consideration of this complaint is the deferred period. And for the reasons I have explained above, I consider that during this period Mr K has not shown it was 
illness which prevented him from working.
I understand that Mr K will be disappointed by this decision. However, I note that he was 
now left his employment and is taking employment tribunal and court action against N. In my 
opinion, this really reflects the underlying dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman