DRN-3225624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on their 
home insurance policy.
Mr E has taken the lead in pursuing this claim and complaint. So, for ease of reading, 
where I refer to his comments below those should be read as being in respect of both 
himself and Mrs E 
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had an AXA home insurance policy which covers them for the loss of personal 
belongings including jewellery.
In April 2020 Mrs E realised she had lost a bracelet. Mr E submitted a claim to AXA for its 
loss. AXA accepted the claim giving the retail value of the bracelet at £2,850. It told Mr E he 
had four options for claim settlement:
To have the bracelet remade. This would require a home visit consultation from one 
of its agents. But, at that time, owing to the lockdown that couldn't happen 
immediately.
Choose a replacement option from two nominated online retailers up to the value of 
£2,850.
A cash settlement of £1,710.
Vouchers to the value of £2,192 which could be redeemed at a large number of 
suppliers.
AXA said the cash settlement was less than the value of the bracelet because, where it 
could have the item remade, it would limit its settlement to the costs to it of providing the 
replacement. It said its preferred supplier could remake the bracelet at a cost to AXA of 
£1,710. So that was the most it would pay to settle the claim in cash because it could 
remake the bracelet. 
Similarly, AXA later explained to Mr E that the reason the vouchers were below the full retail 
value of the bracelet was because AXA limits its settlement to the equivalent cost of having 
the bracelet remade. And, as it receives a discount from the suppliers who accept the 
vouchers. So, for a cost to it of £1,710 it could offer vouches to the value of £2,192.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with AXAs offers and continued to correspond with it. He said that 
AXAs retailers didnt offer a suitable replacement. And, as AXA couldn't immediately replace 
the bracelet, he thought it should have offered him a cash settlement for its full retail value. 
In September 2020 AXA said that it could again offer a home visit in order to have the 
bracelet remade. Owing to concerns about Covid, Mr E wasnt happy with that approach. 
AXA later offered Mr E the option of conducting the consultation by video call. That also 
wasnt suitable for Mr E.
Mr E wasnt happy with AXAs handling of the claim and complained. Amongst other things 
he said it hadnt given him the option of a cash settlement for the bracelets full retail value, 
£2,850.
Eventually Mr E brought his complaint about AXA to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. She didnt think AXA needed to take any further action. Mr E didnt agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es claim and complaint have been ongoing since April 2020. During that time there has 
been a considerable amount of correspondence between AXA and Mr E covering a number 
of points. I'm grateful to Mr E for his detailed submissions to this service. I've considered 
everything hes told us and all of the information on file carefully. But in this decision I dont 
intend to refer to every event or action nor to address each and every point made. Instead I 
will focus on what I see as the key issue at the heart of this complaint.
Mr Es policy says that, in the event of a successful claim AXA:
may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or repair 
the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
vouchers and/or store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred 
supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not 
exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred supplier. If no equivalent replacement 
is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied.
Mr E thinks that as, initially at least, AXA wasnt able to replace the bracelet then it should 
have offered him its full cash value of £2,850, less his policy excess. 
Mr E made his claim at the time when the pandemic was a massive concern for everyone. 
The UK was locked down and only those businesses the government considered essential 
were operating a face-to-face service. That meant that, at that time, AXAs preferred supplier 
wasnt able to send its agents out to visit Mr and Mrs E in order to consult with them about 
fashioning a suitable replacement bracelet. But that doesn't mean that AXA wasnt ever 
going to be able to offer a replacement, only that the process for doing so might be delayed. 
At the time the situation with the pandemic was simply unprecedented. As a result 
businesses were having to adjust their service in order to learn how to cope with it. In those 
circumstances I think some delays are reasonable. It follows that I don't think that, simply 
because AXA couldnt replace the bracelet immediately meant that it was bound by the 
terms of Mr Es policy to offer a cash equivalent of the bracelets full value. Instead I think it 
was reasonable for AXA to delay settling the claim until such a point that it could either be 
certain that it wouldnt be able to offer a consultation process, or  as was the case  to 
begin the process of offering a replacement. 
I can understand this might have been frustrating for Mr E. But I don't think that means AXA 
dealt with him unfairly. The lost bracelet, while no doubt important to Mr and Mrs E, didnt 
require immediate replacement in order that they could live their daily lives safely and securely. So, while recognising Mr Es frustration with the delays, given the situation with the 
pandemic, I don't think AXA was required to take urgent steps to settle the claim in the 
meantime. It follows that I dont think it needed to immediately offer Mr E the full replacement 
cost of the bracelet in order to settle his claim fairly. And I think some delays in the process, 
even before the pandemic, are to be expected. 
I'm also aware that Mr E believes AXA withheld the possibility of settling his claim for the full 
retail value of the bracelet from him throughout the claim process. I note it wasn't one of the 
four options AXA gave to him at an early stage. But I dont think AXA was under any 
obligation to bring this possibility to Mr Es attention. 
Thats because Mr Es policy, like most others on the market, gives AXA the choice  at its 
sole discretion  as to how it goes about settling claims. And as long as it applies that 
discretion reasonably, I think thats fair, given that AXA is the one paying for the claim. So I 
think it was fair, in these circumstances, that it would wish to limit its claim settlement to the 
costs to it to have the bracelet remade by its preferred supplier. And the fact that Mr Es 
policy says AXA may pay the full retail cost in certain circumstances doesn't mean that it 
must pay the full replacement cost if, at a given moment in time, AXA isnt immediately able 
to replace the bracelet but can do so later. 
In other words, as AXA felt it could offer Mr E a replacement bracelet  even if that process 
was delayed  that meant it wasnt required, under the terms of the policy, to give Mr E the 
option of the full retail value in cash. And given that AXA clearly had chosen not to offer that 
as a settlement option to Mr E, I dont think it needed to bring this possibility to his attention. 
Further, once the lockdown restrictions had relaxed, AXA was in a position to send out 
agents to visit Mr and Mrs E to give them the option of a replacement bracelet. I can 
understand why, given concerns about infection, Mr and Mrs E might not have been 
comfortable with someone visiting their home. But AXA eventually offered a consultation by 
video. And while that also wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs E I think it was reasonable that 
AXA was trying to offer alternatives in order to fairly settle the claim. If Mr and Mrs E didnt 
wish to accept either the home visit or the video consultation then they could choose one of 
the other options AXA had offered to settle the claim, for example by accepting vouchers.
In response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Mr E said AXA hasn't given 
him a breakdown of how it had calculated its discounted cash or voucher offers. But I dont 
think it was required to do that. AXA will have arrangements with its preferred suppliers for 
how much it will pay for various items. And, its likely that, if a supplier says it can make an 
item at a certain cost to Admiral, that is the amount Admiral will pay to it. And given that is an 
agreement between AXA and its supplier, I dont think AXAs preferred supplier is required to 
share how its arrived at that valuation with Mr E. But AXA has shared some of that detail 
with this service. And Im satisfied AXA has correctly reported the cost to it, and the resultant 
cash settlement value offered to Mr E is fair and reasonable. 
Mr E also had concerns that AXA might not be able to exactly reproduce the lost bracelet. 
I've noted that AXA is confident it will be able to do that. I understand that the purpose of the 
consultation is so its preferred supplier can gain a reasonable understanding of the 
specification of the lost item so it can replicate it. And unless Mr E engages with that 
process, he can't possibly know what the outcome would be. 
I'm also aware Mr E said AXA hasnt asked him for detailed photos etc of the bracelet. Mr E 
would be free to submit those to AXA at any time. But, I think those would be of the greatest 
use to the person carrying out the consultation in order to replace the bracelet. Mr E also has concerns about the quality of AXAs communications. For example he said it 
took AXA some months before it gave him the exact policy wording it was relying on. Having 
read the file carefully I can't identify where Mr E asked for this information explicitly, although 
it might be that this took place in phone calls with AXAs agents and those requests werent 
documented on AXAs file. But if that was the case then not providing the precise wording 
clearly wasn't helpful. 
In fact the wording should already have been available to Mr E. Ill explain that when he first 
bought the policy AXA sent him an email with a link to the policy wording. So Mr E could 
have found this for himself. But its clear he didnt appreciate that while he was 
communicating with AXA. So it would have been helpful for AXA to have provided clarity on 
that point at an early stage.
Also, I've noted that AXA has occasionally made other unhelpful comments. For example, in 
response to his complaint, AXA referred to a delay in arranging a home visit of four weeks. 
When, in effect, the period involved before AXA offered a home visit  because of the 
pandemic  was over four months. AXA might have been referring to some other form of 
delay, for example perhaps a delay between it starting home visits again following the 
relaxing of lockdown restrictions and it offering Mr E a visit. But if that was the case it should 
have made that clear. So AXAs comment in its complaint response clearly wasnt 
appropriate. 
But I dont think some errors in communication means that AXAs overall handling of the 
claim has been unfair. As I've said above, it believes it can replace the lost bracelet. And, in 
those circumstances, Mr Es policy allows AXA to either do that or to settle the claim on the 
basis of the other options it offered to him. So I think its offered to deal with the claim in line 
with the policy terms, and - for the most part - its dealt with Mr E fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman