DRN-3643755
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) allowed his account 
to become overdrawn when he had no arranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr S held a current account with Halifax with no arranged overdraft. Following a transfer of 
funds and debit card payments made in May 2021 Mr Ss account became overdrawn by 
£249.82.
Halifax wrote to Mr S about the status of his account asking him to get in touch but following 
no response a formal demand letter was sent to him on 6 July for payment of the overdrawn 
amount and a pre-closure letter 12 August 2021. Mr S got in touch with Halifax at the end of 
August and a 30 day hold was placed on the account, but as no payment was received the 
account was closed on 5 October 2021, sent to recoveries and a default was applied.
Mr S complained to Halifax that it shouldnt have allowed payments to go out of his account 
placing him in unarranged overdraft. Halifax says because the payments from his account 
that caused the account to become overdrawn were made by debit card it was unable to 
block or decline the payment as debit card payments are a guaranteed method of payment. 
And as such Halifax authorised the transaction as short term borrowing as allowed by the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr S fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed he says he never authorised the payment to go out and that Halifax should 
never have allowed it if he held insufficient funds. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr S has experienced and see if Halifax has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ss main complaint point is that it was unfair that Halifax allowed a debit card transaction 
on his account when he held insufficient funds resulting in his account becoming overdrawn. 
I understand Mr S may not have wanted Halifax to have authorised the transactions and 
allowed his account to go into unarranged overdraft  but Halifax is entitled to do this under 
the terms and conditions of the account. And Im sure Mr S appreciates holding a bank 
account comes with responsibilities  one of which is ensuring the account holds sufficient 
funds for items that the account holder wishes to pay for from the account. 
Mr S was the one who made the debit card transactions which he didnt have sufficient funds 
for and Halifax responded by allowing Mr Ss account to become temporarily overdrawn (as 
per the terms and conditions of the account) to cover the transactions Mr S wished to make. 
So I cant say that Halifax did anything wrong here.
The next question I have to consider is whether Halifax did anything wrong in closing Mr Ss
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance on the 
unarranged overdraft in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Ss account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that Halifax sent a number of letters to the address it had registered for Mr S notifying him 
that his account was in arrears and what was to happen to his account if no action was 
taken. 
Mr S must have received these letters or understood his account was in arrears as following 
these letters Halifaxs records show Mr S got in contact and Halifax placed a hold on Mr Ss 
account to allow him time to pay the outstanding balance. But as this wasnt done Halifax 
closed his account, sent it to recoveries and registered the default. 
So Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to make the decision to close Mr Ss account as it gave 
Mr S the required notice of what was to happen if he didnt take appropriate action. 
And I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in transferring his account to recoveries when he 
failed to pay back what he owed it  I think its reasonable for Halifax to put steps in place to 
recover this  and register a default on his credit file.
I understand that Mr S is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but
Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Halifax treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman