DRN-3116406
The complaint
Miss A complains that SLL Capital Limited recorded a default on her credit file despite being
asked by the original lender to place her account on hold.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Miss As complaint. 
I said: 
Miss A had a loan with another business (L). When the loan fell into arrears, SLL was 
instructed to contact Miss A and arrange repayment. Miss A complained to L about the 
decision to approve her borrowing.
Miss A referred her complaint about L to this service. On 25 March 2021 SLL sent Miss A a 
default notice asking her to make a payment within 21 days. SLL said it would record a 
default on Miss As credit file if no payment was received.
On 14 April 2021 Miss A contacted SLL and said L had agreed to place collections activity 
concerning her account on hold while her complaint was referred to this service. Miss A 
explained L had agreed to email SLL with confirmation collections should be stopped.
A manager told Miss A that once Ls email was received SLL would act in line with its 
instructions. On 14 April 2021 L confirmed to Miss A that it had emailed SLL and asked it to 
place the account and collections activity on hold.
SLL proceeded to apply a default to Miss As account, despite receiving confirmation from L 
that collections activity should be placed on hold. Miss A complained and SLL responded 
on 14 June 2021. SLL confirmed it had received Ls instruction on 14 April 2021 but said it 
was 21 days after the default notice had been sent. SLL also said it would remove the 
default if the Financial Ombudsman Service asked it to.
Miss A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
didnt uphold Miss As complaint and she asked to appeal. As Miss A asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked SLL to provide supporting information in July 2021. SLL responded and advised 
it had nothing further to add beyond the information contained within the final response. 
More recently, I asked the investigator to request information from SLL but no response 
has been received. Im satisfied SLL has been given fair opportunity to respond. Im going 
to proceed based on the information I have available as Im satisfied its sufficient to reach 
a fair outcome.
Miss A has provided a transcript of a call she had with SLL on 14 April 2021. In it, a 
manager said when Ls email would be actioned accordingly. I think Miss A could 
reasonably take that to mean SLL would comply with Ls instruction.
Miss A has provided a copy of an email from L confirming it emailed SLL on 14 April 2021 
to place collections activity on hold. SLLs final response also confirms L contacted it on 
14 April 2021. Based on the available information, Im satisfied L told SLL to place 
collections activity on hold.
SLL says that the instruction from L was received after the default notice had been issued. 
I see no reason why that would mean it couldnt place the decision to apply a default on 
hold when instructed to do so by L. I think SLL shouldve acted in line with Ls instructions 
and delayed the default.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I intend to uphold Miss As complaint and direct SLL to 
amend her credit file to remove the default.
As the debt remains outstanding, I also intend to tell SLL to reinstate Miss As account and 
contact her within four weeks of acceptance to discuss an affordable payment plan.
In my view, SLL caused an unnecessary level of upset for Miss A when it failed to follow 
Ls instructions. I also intend to tell SLL to pay Miss A £150 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss A responded and confirmed she 
accepted the provisional decision. 
SLL responded and said it didnt accept the provisional decision. SLL said it had acted in line 
with Ls instructions because it stopped contacting Miss A on 14 April 2021. SLL didnt send 
in any supporting evidence or documents. SLL asked why the default wasnt relevant. SLL 
also asked whether Miss As complaint about L had been upheld.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response, SLL said it stopped contacting Miss A after 14 April 2021, in line with Ls 
instruction to cease collections activity. I still think SLL acted unfairly. As SLL hasnt supplied 
any supporting information, Ive had to base my findings on the documents Miss A has sent 
in. And they include an email from L saying it asked SLL to put collections activity on hold on 
14 April 2021. I dont agree that simply meant SLL had to stop contacting Miss A. I still think 
SLL was being told to stop all collections activity, including applying a default to Miss As 
credit file. 
SLL says the default is a true reflection of how Miss As account was handled. But it doesnt 
show that SLL was asked to put the account on hold whilst L investigated a complaint about 
her. In addition, by defaulting the account when it did, it meant there was no way Miss A 
could reach an arrangement with it to make payments once her complaint had been 
investigated. I still think the fairest approach is to tell SLL to delete the default. SLL has asked for the outcome of Miss As complaint about L. Its free to contact L for details 
of how Miss As complaint was resolved. SLL has asked for confirmation of the detriment 
Miss A experienced as a result of its actions. My provisional decision sets out how the issues 
raised impacted Miss A. Ive reviewed my comments again and Im satisfied they clearly 
explain how I think Miss A was impacted and why I intended to uphold her complaint. SLLs 
response hasnt persuaded me to change my mind.
As SLLs response hasnt changed my view of how to fairly resolve Miss As complaint, Im 
going to proceed in line with my provisional decision. I still think Miss As complaint should 
be upheld, for the same reasons.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct SLL Capital Limited to settle as follows:
- Remove the default from Miss As credit file
- Reinstate Miss As account and contact her within four weeks of acceptance to 
discuss an affordable repayment plan
- Pay Miss A £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. SLL should note this 
payment should be made directly to Miss A   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman