DRN-3618185
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) stopped some payments for flights leading to 
increased costs of £500. He would like the £500 refunded and  £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that the security checks MBNA carried out delayed his 
purchase. Its also unfortunate that MBNAs systems took a short while to update ,so 
despite Mr C responding to a text asking if the first transaction was genuine, when he 
tried to make the same transaction again it was declined. Fraud checks are there to 
protect both consumers and the banks so I cant say that MBNA were wrong to query 
transactions if they had concerns.
Mr C has made the point that other transactions have been similarly declined. I have 
seen MBNAs terms and conditions . I think MBNA acted in accordance with these. 
They state that MBNA can stop cards or refuse to authorise  transactions if it has 
reasonable grounds to suspect fraud, or if it feels its necessary to protect the 
security of accounts or cards. 
As I dont think MBNA did anything wrong I cant reasonably ask it to refund the 
difference in flight costs as Mr C would like. And whilst I  appreciate MBNAs actions 
did cause Mr C some inconvenience, I cant reasonably ask it to pay compensation 
for this. It acted in accordance with its terms and conditions  and to prevent potential 
fraud
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
