DRN-2710065
The complaint
Miss H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) incorrectly recorded 
information on her credit file which affected her mortgage application. 
What happened
Miss H says she applied for a mortgage with BOS and her Decision in Principle (DIP) was 
declined as a result of a missed payment marker on her credit file. Miss H says when she 
complained to BOS, she was told her complaint couldnt affect or alter her credit file. Miss H 
says BOS eventually accepted they had incorrectly marked the missed payment, but it took 
two months to put this right by which time she had missed the opportunity to secure a low 
percentage deposit mortgage. Miss H says the low percentage deposit product had since 
been discontinued, this meant she had to borrow monies from a family member to make up 
the difference. Miss H feels the offer of compensation made by BOS is insufficient and 
doesnt reflect fully the trouble and upset she has been through.  
BOS says they accept they made a mistake by recording a missed loan payment and have 
since corrected Miss Hs credit file and have apologised for the poor customer service when 
they advised Miss H, her credit file couldnt be amended. BOS says they have paid Miss H a 
total of £137 by way of compensation which they feel is fair. 
Miss H wasnt happy with BOSs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint and while 
he felt a DIP wasnt a guarantee the mortgage would have been granted, the investigator 
didnt feel the compensation offered for the trouble and upset caused was sufficient. The 
investigator felt a further £100 should be awarded to Miss H for this. 
Miss H wasnt happy with the investigators view and also felt the compensation offered 
should be higher and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Miss H to be told her DIP 
was declined due to adverse information on her credit file, when this was an error made by 
BOS. When looking at this complaint I will consider if BOS have acted reasonably when 
accepting their mistake of recording a missed payment on Miss Hs credit file, and if the 
compensation they have offered is sufficient for the upset caused to her. 
Miss H says BOSs actions led her to missing out on the opportunity to secure a low deposit 
mortgage product which has since been withdrawn and this has meant she needed to make 
up the deposit shortfall by borrowing from her family. 
I understand the point Miss H makes and its important to say BOS have accepted they 
made an error recording the missed loan payment on her credit file and gave incorrect 
information about whether this could be removed or not. That said, I cant say that even if the 
DIP by BOS had been approved it would follow the mortgage would have also been agreed, 
as a DIP is only an indication to lend and not a formal mortgage approval. While Miss H may 
not agree, there are also other factors that can influence the formal mortgage agreement, 
and there is no certainty this lower deposit mortgage would have been granted or still been 
available to her.
Thats not to say BOS havent caused Miss H upset and inconvenience during a time when 
she was undertaking an important financial arrangement, which at the best of times can be 
stressful and I can see their actions would have only added to this. While BOS have 
corrected Miss Hs credit file, apologised to her and paid some compensation, as I would 
expect, like the investigator I dont think this goes quite far enough.  
I support the investigators view here that a further sum of £100 by way of compensation, in 
addition to what BOS have already paid Miss H, is warranted here for the reasons I have 
already explained. 
While Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, I believe the extra amount of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Miss H a further £100, for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Miss H a further £100, for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman