DRN-4377075
The complaint
Mr M complains about American International Group UK Limiteds handling of a claim under 
his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr M had mobile phone insurance underwritten by AIG. He made a claim after one of his 
phones was stolen.
AIG accepted the claim and sent Mr M a replacement phone. He wasnt happy with the 
service provided, so he made a complaint to AIG.
Mr Ms complaint was in part about delays in registering his phone for cover under the policy. 
He said he was initially unable to register the phone. Hed then been given different 
timeframes as to how soon it might be registered. And when he provided documents AIG 
requested, they were slow to review them.
He also complained about the delivery of the replacement phone being re-scheduled and 
delayed. And the fact the replacement phone was damaged when it was delivered.
He was unhappy with the number and cost of calls hed made to AIGs agents to progress 
his claim. And he said hed been misled about the process for AIG to respond to his queries 
and complaints.
AIG upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. And they paid Mr M £25 in compensation for his having 
received a faulty phone replacement. But they said theyd acted fairly, reasonably and within 
acceptable timeframes when registering Mr Ms device and dealing with his claim, including 
the delivery of the phone. And they said Mr M hadnt been given misleading information.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think AIG had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should point out first of all that Mr M has made another complaint to us about how AIG 
handled a later claim under the policy. Thats been dealt with separately and weve issued a 
final decision about those matters.
In this decision, Im looking only at the issues set out above, which are about the initial claim 
and AIGs handling of it.
Registering the phone under the policy
AIG dont cover phones which cost more than £1,500 under the policy. The phone Mr M 
registered  which was stolen  was a model which costs more than that when bought from 
the manufacturers store. 
So, AIG asked Mr M to provide documented evidence to show that hed bought the phone 
for less than £1,500. It wasnt unfair or unreasonable to do that. Once Mr M provided that 
evidence, it was reviewed and the phone registered within two days. There was no undue or 
unreasonable delay.
AIG didnt give Mr M a specific timeframe for the registration of the phone. Theres nothing in 
the policy to say that it will be done within a given time. Again, thats not unreasonable  and 
in any case, as I say, it was done within two days.
The delivery
The replacement phone was delivered on 17 June 2023. It appears the delivery date and 
time was changed several times before that  at Mr Ms request. Theres no unnecessary or 
unreasonable delay here for which AIG are responsible.
Mr M reported that the replacement phones screen was cracked. This may have happened 
in transit. It would be difficult to blame AIG for that, but they paid Mr M £25 in compensation 
for the inconvenience. Thats not unfair or unreasonable given that a further replacement 
phone was delivered two days later. 
The calls 
Mr M chose to make several calls to AIG from overseas. He says these were costly (totalling 
around £200). He says thats £200 he wouldnt have had to spend if AIG had handled his 
claim in a timely manner. 
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr M on that point. AIG had both the registration of his phone 
and his claim in hand and made progress quickly. There was no need for Mr M to call to 
chase them for progress or updates  which were provided in any case.
AIG also pointed out theyd told Mr M previously that he could contact them by other means 
 including email  if he wished, so avoiding the cost of making phone calls.
Theres no evidence at all to suggest Mr M was misled when he spoke to AIGs agents on 
those calls. His queries have been answered in a timely manner and hes been able to make 
his complaints to AIG without any delay or obfuscation.
Summary
AIG handled Mr Ms phone registration, his claim and his subsequent queries and 
complaints in a timely, fair and reasonable manner. So, I wont be upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman