DRN-3610391
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mrs L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs L bought solar panels for her home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a seven-year 
loan from OCRF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mrs L says the installer, Ecoscheme Limited, misled 
her into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs L and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Does section 75 apply to Mrs Ls purchase?
Where it applies, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act provides protection for consumers 
for goods or services bought using credit. As Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan 
agreement, Mrs L may claim against OCRF (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the installer in the same way that she could have claimed against the 
installer. So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Before I turn to the real issue in this case, however, there is one preliminary matter I must 
deal with first. The installer was Ecoscheme Limited (Ecoscheme). The loan was brokered 
by a credit intermediary called Lincs. Electrical Wholesalers Limited (LEW), which uses the 
trading name Ecoscheme. It appears that as well as writing to OCRF, the CMC also wrote to 
LEW about Mrs Ls solar panels. LEW responded with a strongly-worded letter in which it 
emphasized that Ecoscheme and LEW (trading as Ecoscheme) are two different companies.
Legally that is accurate, and in some cases (but not here) that can result in section 75 not 
applying. The money Mrs L borrowed from OCRF was sent first to LEW as the credit 
intermediary, and then forwarded on to Ecoscheme. In those circumstances, the lender is 
still liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the credit intermediary, but is 
not necessarily liable for anything done by the actual supplier of the goods or services who 
ends up with the money. So I have considered whether that might affect Mrs Ls claim.
However, I dont think that it makes a difference in this case. The effect of sections 12, 184 
and 187, taken together, is that section 75 still makes OCRF liable for Ecoschemes actions, 
if Ecoscheme and LEW are controlled by the same people. I have looked up both companies 
on the Companies House website, and the same two people were directors of both 
companies at the time that Mrs L bought her solar panels. So Im satisfied that Mrs L was 
entitled to bring a section 75 claim against OCRF about LEW and also about Ecoscheme 
too.
Was there a misrepresentation?
However, having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. 
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the 
cost.
Firstly, the contract clearly states that the total potential savings the panels could achieve in 
the first year was £559.06. Immediately below that it gives the cash price of the panels as 
£7,950. Directly next to that figure, it gives monthly breakdowns of both figures: monthly 
payments of £129.84, and a monthly benefit of £46.59. Those two figures are right next to 
each other. Directly next to them is a box labelled Shortfall, and regrettably this box is 
empty, but nonetheless I still think the contract made it clear that the savings would not be 
enough to cover the loan repayments.
(The figure of £23,523.94 at the top right of the above image is the total estimated savings 
over 20 years.)
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document (although it is included in the 
monthly loan payments), and so I think that Mrs L could be forgiven for overlooking it. 
However, it was still quite clear that the monthly savings were only about a third of the 
monthly cost. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs L about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
