DRN-1764216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to help 
them when they fell victim to a scam.
Mr P has taken the lead in the complaint so for the sake of simplicity I will refer only to him in 
the body of my decision, but the reference should be understood as meaning both Mr P and 
Mrs P. 
 
What happened
Mr P wanted to buy a mobile phone hed found on an online classified advertisements 
website. On 31 March 2019, he used online banking to make a faster payment of £280 to the 
seller. He was expecting the phone to be posted to him by special delivery but it didnt arrive. 
On 2 April 2019, Mr P received a message from the website to say the seller had been 
reported as fraudulent. Mr P had been tricked and had fallen victim to a scam. He reported it 
to the police the same day. The police referred him to Action Fraud and to the bank. 
On 4 April 2019, Mr P contacted Halifax. It said it would contact the receiving bank to see if it 
could recover any of the funds. On 8 April 2019, Halifax sent Mr P a text message to let him 
know no money remained. 
  
Mr M was disappointed with the banks position and made a complaint. He thought hed 
been treated in a casual manner and that the bank ought to have done more to help catch a 
criminal. 
Halifax looked into Mr Ps concerns. In its final response, it said it wasnt able to refund the 
money because Mr P had willingly transferred the funds from his own account. It explained 
the bank was unable to take any action in relation to a third-party account holder but would 
co-operate fully with the police if they required information to help them with their enquiries. 
Mr P asked this service to review the matter. He said he was aware he might never get the 
money back, but he felt the bank and the other organisations hed contacted should be doing 
more to help him. He felt the system operated to protect the criminal and ignored the victim. 
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think Halifax had missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being 
made in relation to a scam because it wasnt unusual or suspicious. She was satisfied 
Halifax did what it could to try and recover the money once it had been made aware of the 
fraud. She explained that Halifax isnt a law enforcement agency, so whilst it would co-
operate with any police investigation, it wouldnt be able to pursue the scammer directly. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. He explained he wanted to 
follow all the avenues he could. He pointed out that more should be done to fight cybercrime 
and expressed concerns about the way banks operate.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr P and I can understand why he feels so strongly 
about it. Being the victim of a crime is a horrible experience and its not fair that Mr P has lost 
out. But Im only able to look at Halifaxs actions. I think it acted fairly and reasonably in 
allowing the payment to leave Mr Ps account. I also think it took appropriate steps to try and 
recover the money from the beneficiary account. I dont agree that there was more Halifax 
could have done to help Mr P. This means that I cant fairly say that Halifax needs to 
reimburse Mr P with the money he lost or that it needs to do anything further to help bring 
the criminal to justice. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, so I will explain 
why. 
The first thing I need to consider is whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr P when it processed the payment of £280 to a new payee. The starting point is that 
Halifax should follow Mr Ps instructions and make the payment he requests unless it had a 
reason to be concerned that Mr P might have been at risk of financial harm. 
Mr P sent the payment to the scammer without any interaction with the banks staff. When 
Mr P made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the 
money in good faith, expecting to receive a phone in return. But this means that at the time 
he made the payment, he wanted it to go ahead and authorised it to be made.
Ive thought about the increase of sophisticated scams in recent years and whether it would 
have been reasonable to expect Halifax to have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the payment, especially as I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax 
should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
But looking at Mr Ps account history and the size of the transaction, I dont think the 
payment Mr P was making would have stood out as being particularly unusual or out of 
character. Although he was paying someone hed not paid before, Mr P regularly made 
faster payments for similar amounts, and often for more. The payment represented only a 
small proportion of Mr Ps available balance. The payment wasnt so unusual or suspicious 
in comparison to Mr Ps normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Halifax that he 
may have been at risk of financial harm. I dont think Halifax missed a clear opportunity to 
intervene and stop the payment from being made. This means the bank didnt do anything 
wrong by following the instructions Mr P gave and sending the money. 
Halifax discovered Mr P had been the victim of a scam a few days later. The banks records 
show that it did try to recover the money hed sent very quickly after being made aware of 
what had happened. Unfortunately, no funds remained. I think Halifax did what it could at 
that time to help Mr P. Scammers typically withdraw funds very quickly, and often before the 
sender has realised theres been a problem.
Mr P feels Halifax could be doing more to fight online crime by using the information it has to 
apprehend scammers. But contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was 
all Halifax could do to help. Halifax has no any access to any additional information about 
the account holder or what happened to the money, all it can do is contact the beneficiary 
bank and ask for the money to be sent back, if any remains. 
I understand Mr Ps concerns about faster payments and the banking system being exploited 
by scammers. I can appreciate why hes frustrated and feels more should be done to help 
him and others that have suffered like him. But I dont have the power to change the way 
banks operate. I am only able to consider whether Halifax complied with the rules in place at the time Mr Ps transfer was made. Whether those rules go far enough to prevent fraud is 
ultimately a matter for the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Mr P has been through, but I cant fairly hold Halifax 
responsible for the scammers actions. Im satisfied the bank processed Mr Ps payment 
correctly and it did all it could to help him once it knew what had happened. Im sorry to have 
to disappoint Mr P, but I cant fairly say Halifax should have done more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman