DRN-3247812
The complaint
Mr B complained about work carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
under his home emergency policy and felt his subsequent claim was unfairly declined.
What happened
British Gas visited Mr Bs property twice to fix leaks on his shower. On the first visit British 
Gas changed a washer on the service tap. On the second visit British Gas got Mr Bs 
permission to break a tile in the shower so it could access the shower mixture tap, where it 
was identified the pressure valve was loose / there was a kink in a plastic pipe.
Mr B said that on the first visit to change the washer, British Gas engineer wouldve needed 
to remove the front plate of the shower by removing two screws which were fixed into two 
plugs held on a back plate. Mr B said the repair was done and the engineer wouldve 
replaced the front plate by screwing it back into position.
Mr B has said on the second visit the engineer damaged one of the two plugs on the back 
plate when he broke the tile. Mr B said part of the area was covered by duct tape due to the 
broken tile, but he said the front plate was replaced where it wouldve been evident the plug 
was broken.
British Gas said as per terms and conditions we do not cover showers or their parts, the 
repair carried out to the shower plate was attached by silicone before we attended, so
we have reinstated as it was however as a gesture of goodwill we will replace the shower 
plate under your policy. Our Local Office Manager has explained that we cannot source the 
part as discontinued or find an alternative, therefore, we requested that you source a part 
and we will reimburse the costs incurred and attend to fit. I have had your complaint 
reviewed by our Senior Customer Manager, who has advised that we have tried to source 
the part however as this is discontinued there is nothing further we can do.
Mr B would like British Gas to replace the damaged part by finding a replacement part, or 
alternatively replace the entire shower system.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought British Gas had been fair 
in declining the claim as she couldnt find any evidence that British Gas had caused the 
damage. She thought British Gas had been reasonable by offering to provide an improvised 
fix to the broken part as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the accounts that Mr B and British Gas have provided to understand what 
has happened. Mr B said that British Gas damaged part of the back plate when completing 
its work. British Gas has denied this and said the plate was already damaged and fixed to 
the wall with mastic. As the two accounts are not the same, its difficult for me to decide 
based on this. I think the photographic evidence provided is inconclusive as it could be used 
to support either partys account, so its effectively one word against the other. This doesnt 
provide me with evidence as to how the damage occurred. I can consider whether the 
actions British Gas took were reasonable when it became aware of the issue.
British Gas did try and support Mr B as a gesture of goodwill by replacing the plate but 
unfortunately it was obsolete. So, as an alternative it provided a fixing kit to attach the plate 
directly to the wall (using a wall plug rather than a plug attached to the back plate) and it 
offered to make this repair. However, Mr B didnt think this was a suitable repair, so he didnt 
want the work carried out. I think British Gas has been fair in trying to help Mr B in this 
situation. I dont think it would be fair to expect British Gas to replace the whole shower unit 
when its not covered by the policy. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to offer any more than it already has.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman