DRN-2328445
The complaint
Mrs H is represented. She held a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Dentons 
Pensions Management Limited (Dentons) from 2013 to 2018. She says Dentons is 
responsible for the following:
Absence of an advice letter, key features document, breakdown of initial costs and 
schedule of ongoing costs associated with establishing her SIPP and with the 
commercial property joint purchase that was the purpose for the SIPP. [issue 1]
Mismanagement of the lease, the initial rent-free arrangement and the collection of 
rent for the commercial property. [issue 2]
Overcharging fees and applying fees for disputed work. [issue 3]
Delays and overcharged fees associated with the purchase of the remainder share of 
the commercial property (the partial sale). [issue 4]
Delays and overcharged fees associated with the transfer-out of the SIPP from 
Dentons to a new provider. [issue 5]
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she noted as follows:
That the background to the complaint features a joint venture between Mrs H, her 
husband and a third party individual (an Independent Financial Adviser  the IFA) in 
which they used a trust based arrangement and their individual SIPPs to jointly 
purchase the commercial property; a joint venture in which they intended to rent out 
[in lease arrangements] the property for the respective and separate business use of 
her husband and the IFA; and a venture in which the IFA had negotiated an initial 
rent free period for one year, with annual rent of £15,000 applying thereafter and 
liability for rent split equally between the IFA and her husband. 
That the background also features a breakdown of relations with the IFA after the 
purchase; Mrs H and her husbands dissatisfaction with Dentons thereafter; her 
application to transfer-out the SIPP in November 2017; a partial sale of the 
commercial property in the same month; Mrs Hs in-specie transfer-out request in 
September 2018; and completion of the transfer-out in November 2018.
In terms of issue 1, a third-party firm  and not Dentons  advised Mrs H on the 
setting up of the SIPP, so Dentons is not accountable for the advice related aspects 
of this issue. Her adviser  and not Dentons  was also responsible for advising her 
on the associated costs. In any case, there is evidence that Mrs H was aware of 
Dentons fees (and the costs of setting up the SIPP) at the outset.
With regards to issue 2, there is evidence that Dentons liaised with the solicitors 
involved in the lease and sent them a fully signed copy of the lease document and 
declaration of trust, after required amendments, on 29 July 2013; and evidence that 
Mrs Hs adviser was reminded of this in January, March and October 2014; so 
Dentons appears to have managed the lease matter in a timely fashion.
With regards to issue 3, there is evidence that Dentons fees were clear and that its 
fees structure provided for extra charges (at an hourly rate) where additional 
administrative work had been performed. That was reasonable, the fee structure was 
transparent (and was reflected in the application form used for the SIPP) and 
Dentons could not reasonably have been expected to set out the costs for future and 
unknown additional work. Evidence of the additional work that was done by Dentons 
does not suggest it was unreasonable to apply the extra charges.
In terms of issue 4, overall evidence suggests that the delay in the partial sale was 
not caused by Dentons. Instead, there was a delay in the solicitors on both sides of 
the sale reaching an agreement and it also appears that a new occupational lease 
had to be put in place before the transaction could proceed.
A similar finding applies to issue 5. Without seeking to justify the delay, it does not 
appear to have been caused by Dentons. It would not have been unusual for the 
transfer of a SIPP (in specie and with an underlying property investment) to be 
complex and time consuming. The provider to which Mrs H sought to transfer the 
SIPP required the clearing of outstanding rent on the property before it would accept 
the transfer and Dentons had to take an arms length approach in collecting the rental 
income. There is also evidence of business rating and Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC) issues related to the underlying property and to the delayed 
transfer.
Dentons position on the complaint is mainly as follows:
It too denies responsibility for issue 1, given that it played no role in advising Mrs H 
on setting up the SIPP.
It echoes the investigators finding on issue 2, with regards to the lease matter. In 
terms of the rent-free arrangement and rent collection aspects of this issue, a one 
year rent free period was extended to both tenants from the property purchase on 31 
July 2013; the £15,000 per year rent (split equally between both tenants) was agreed 
in August 2014 after a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) valuation; and 
the first request for payment of rent from Mrs Hs husband (for his share) was for the 
period beginning 25 May 2016, given that he (or a member of his staff) still occupied 
the premises at the time; he was never required to pay any rent he did not owe as a 
tenant. Rent owed by the IFA was addressed separately.
It echoes the investigators findings on issues 3, 4 and 5. It highlights that some of 
the key delays in issue 5 were caused by Mrs H, the relevant solicitors and the IFA, 
and not Dentons. Its work schedule evidence also provides a basis for the additional 
work it had to perform  as cited by the investigator  and history of chase related 
work (because of delays by Mrs H, her husband and the solicitors) features in this 
respect. Such work inevitably impacted upon fees.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusion. Her representative commented, mainly, 
as follows:
Mrs H wishes to pursue the advice related issue 1 through the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).Mrs H retains her claim that the fees applied by Dentons were substantially more 
than the fees it quoted.
Mrs H retains her claim that delays were caused by Dentons making and repeating 
unnecessary requests for extra information during the legal related work. It is this set 
of unnecessary requests that it used to justify the extra work it claims and the extra 
charges it applied. It is this claim (and charges) that she disputes. Had Dentons 
made the correct and relevant enquiries at the outset this disputed extra work would 
not have happened and evidence has been sought from the solicitors  and will be 
shared with this service  in order to prove this.
It is not disputed that outstanding rent had to be paid in issue 5, the point to note is 
that it was the IFA who refused to pay his share of the rent and it was Dentons who 
chose to do nothing to address that.
Dentons fees had always been questioned and it consistently sought to evade 
enquiries in this respect. Mrs H is yet to receive, from Dentons, a full and meaningful 
breakdown and explanation of incurred costs. It also created opportunities for itself to 
apply avoidable charges  such as the additional annual charge applied because of 
the delay it caused in transferring out the SIPP. In addition, it made deductions of 
charges without authority to do so, given that the fees were in dispute and the 
dispute had been referred to this service. Dentons should have suspended the 
deductions pending our determination of the complaint.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
similar reasons. I do not uphold the complaint.
Issue 1
The investigators finding on this issue appears to have been accepted, at least implicitly, by 
Mrs H and her representative. Her decision to pursue the issue through the FSCS suggests 
this. For the sake of completeness, and if she considers that the matters summarised above 
under issue 1 remain to be determined in the complaint, my decision is that those matters 
have been misdirected to Dentons and that it bears no responsibility for them. 
Dentons was the SIPP provider. It did not recommend the SIPP to Mrs H, it did not have 
responsibility for advising her on the SIPPs suitability in terms of its features, initial and 
ongoing costs and/or the underlying commercial property investment intended for it. It is in 
the course of an adviser providing such advice that Mrs H could have expected to receive, 
from the adviser, an advice letter with advice and information (and associated 
documentation) on these aspects of the joint venture she was pursuing. Dentons was not 
that adviser. I have not seen evidence of a failure by it to make information about the SIPP 
available at the time and, as the investigator noted, Mrs H appears to have had information 
about its fees.
Issue 2The 2013 joint venture arrangement was driven by the plan to acquire and, primarily, lease 
the commercial property  with the IFA having a 50% stake, Mrs H having a stake of around 
30% and her husband having a stake of around 20%. There appears to have been a 
secondary plan to exploit development potential in the property in the future. As the 
investigator noted, a breakdown of relations with the IFA followed and I have seen 
correspondence from 2015 that shows this.
The arrangement featured Mrs H, her husband and the IFA as individual members and 
trustees of their respective SIPP schemes and Dentons as the professional trustee of the 
schemes; featured the same four entities as registered owners of the joint venture 
commercial property; included notice from Dentons to the conveyancing solicitors, in a letter 
dated 28 April 2013, that because two of the SIPP members were also to be tenants of the 
property HMRC rules required that the tenancy be operated on an arms length basis, so the 
rent reflected in the lease(s) had to be determined by an independent rental valuation from 
an approved RICS surveyor; and began, after the purchase, with effort to put in place 
requisite lease and declaration of trust.
There is evidence of Dentons sending, to the solicitors, its completed and signed versions of 
the lease and declaration of trust in July 2013, with the need thereafter for the other trustees 
to complete and sign their parts. Evidence also suggests that Dentons heard no further on 
the matter until 2016 when, in February that year, it enquired with the solicitors whether (or 
not) both documents had been fully executed at the time  which the solicitors affirmed in 
their response. However, the need for two separate occupational leases for the property  to 
reflect the tenancy split  remained unresolved in 2016 and there is correspondence from 
that year that shows this. I have not seen enough to conclude, on balance, that Dentons was 
the cause of the problem or of the lack of a solution. The breakdown in relations between 
with the IFA/third SIPP member appears to have been a factor.
As Dentons says, rent was applied from 2016 onwards and there is evidence of its notice to 
Mrs Hs husband about his (or his staffs) occupation of the premises giving rise to liability for 
rent. He was invoiced only for his share of the rent and the IFAs liability in this respect was 
addressed separately.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that available evidence supports the allegation that 
Dentons mismanaged the leasing arrangements for the property or caused delays (or 
problems) in those arrangements. The investigator invited any available evidence to the 
contrary, but none appears to have been submitted. Mrs Hs husband has a complaint about 
the same issues that is being addressed separately. However, in as far as she claims any 
interest in his fair treatment with regards to rent liability, I have not seen evidence that he 
was invoiced for any more than his share of the rent.
Issue 3
Further below, I address the allegation that Dentons created opportunities for fees by 
causing delays  and evidence does not support that allegation. I also have not seen 
evidence that it charged for work it did not do or for work unrelated to Mrs H. She and her 
representative have had the opportunity to highlight specific facts and evidence to show this 
(beyond dispute) and that does not appear to have been done. I accept that she is and has 
been in doubt about Dentons fees. There is correspondence to support the previous 
enquiries in this respect that the representative has referred to. However, this also includes 
responses from Dentons in which it addressed queries about its fees and gave some 
breakdowns (including its invoices). It is worth noting that the background to this case includes a pursuit by Dentons for fees that 
appeared to remain unpaid over a period of time. That pursuit (which inevitably relates to 
Mrs Hs representatives argument that Dentons should have suspended collection of fees) 
is not a matter for me to determine and I do not do so. However, correspondence from 
Dentons in which it chased for payment shows that it was compelled by that chase to repeat 
references to its fees and to the work it performed in relation to them. There is 
correspondence in which it even offered to elaborate on the explanation behind its work. I 
consider this relevant to the allegation that Dentons avoided explaining its fees. That does 
not appear to have been the case.
The matter that remains is whether (or not) Dentons charged for work at rates or on terms 
that differed from the terms and fee schedule that applied to its work. Overall and on 
balance, I consider that the crux of Mrs Hs complaint in this issue has more to do with the 
extent to which she was informed about fees and charges at the outset and less, if anything, 
to do with the argument that Dentons overcharged her. The quote below, from her 
representatives email to Dentons in November 2016 (and in relation to her husbands 
enquiries about fees), suggests that she (and her husband and her representative) might 
have insight on the matter that agrees with me.
[Mrs Hs husband] doesnt understand why he has incurred anything outside of 
establishment and annual admin fees  I have already highlighted that if [Dentons] made 
charges within [its] remit then the issue of paying fees he wasnt aware of would be the fault 
of his IFA non-disclosure rather than [Dentons].
I have not seen evidence of any specific fee or charge applied by Dentons to Mrs H which 
was beyond its remit to apply  that remit defined by its fees related terms and schedule.
Issue 4
Dentons wrote to Mrs H and her husband in July 2016 to confirm it had learnt about the 
partial sale plan  or, their plan to buy the IFAs interest in the commercial property. It set out 
information about the matter it needed from them and issues that had to be resolved prior to 
the purchase (including RICS rental and capital valuations, rent arrears and the occupational 
lease matter). Then there is evidence that suggests exchange on the purchase was 
expected to conclude in January 2017 and an email from Dentons to Mrs Hs representative 
in the same month explained that it had experienced difficulties in receiving updates/contact 
from solicitors on both sides, that it was awaiting presentation of the contract in the 
transaction and that the matter of unpaid rent remained an unresolved issue. It also 
mentioned the matter of its unpaid fees.
There was correspondence between the solicitors on both sides of the transaction into late 
2017. Overall, their contents do not suggest any delays caused by Dentons, and I consider 
that they would probably have stressed such delays if they existed. Overall and on balance, I 
do not consider that there is enough evidence to support the allegation that Dentons delayed 
the transaction. As I addressed above, Dentons applied fees as set out in its terms and fee 
schedule (including fees for additional work). I have not seen evidence that it charged, on 
those or on any other terms or schedule, for work related to the purchase that it did not do.
Issue 5
Similar considerations apply to this issue and I endorse  and incorporate into this decision  
the findings made by the investigator. In a nutshell, the SIPP transfer appears, mainly, to 
have been delayed by a number of key loose ends associated with the overall status of the 
commercial property and of the SIPP and of their fitness to be transferred to  and received 
by  the new provider. I have not seen evidence that Dentons caused those loose ends or obstructed their resolution. I do not consider it necessary to go as far as to identify where 
fault appears to have rested. It is enough to say that, on balance and contrary to what has 
been alleged, the facts do not show Dentons delaying the transfer in order to charge another 
years annual fee or delaying it in order to create opportunities to charge other fees or 
neglecting its role in the rent payment issue.
Conclusion
In considering Mrs Hs complaint, as a whole, I find another quote from her representative  
from its email to Dentons on 7 November 2017  to be insightful. This correspondence was 
again related to her husbands concerns and the representative said;
[Mrs Hs husband] has many justifiable grievances about how his pension has been handled 
in the last few years and whilst this stems from  his adviser he is still left in a very difficult 
position. [my emphasis]
It is my overall view of Mrs Hs complaint issues that, on balance, they too stem from advice 
(or lack of) and from what appears to have been overlapping initial advice from both the third 
party adviser and the IFA  with the latter perhaps not being a good source of independent 
advice given that he was a part of the joint venture with Mrs H and her husband. In any case, 
and as I said above, Dentons bears no advisory responsibility.
I do not suggest that Dentons was remote to the events that took place between 2013 and 
2018. It was not, and correspondence shows its presence in the different problems Mrs H 
(and her husband and her representative) sought to resolve. However, the point to note is 
the lack of evidence showing, on balance, that Dentons caused those problems or 
obstructed their resolution.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman