DRN-3341726
The complaint
Mrs C and Mrs S complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited did not pay them each 
40% of the value of their late brothers pension, after he passed away, having previously 
informed them both it was going to do so.
They complain that Standard Life unfairly and unreasonably went back on its word, when it 
decided to pay 100% of their late brothers pension to a third party.
What happened
Following their brothers passing,  Standard Life became the trustees of his pension scheme. 
As trustees, Standard Life had absolute discretion to decide who should receive the benefits 
payable from his pension scheme.  
To enable it to exercise its discretion, Standard Life collected information from potential 
beneficiaries, including from Mrs C and Mrs S, the deceaseds sisters. Standard Life said 
their late brother had not left an expressions of wishes nomination setting out who he would 
like his pension benefits to be paid to upon death. 
It is not in dispute that after collecting information from potential beneficiaries , Standard Life 
wrote to Mrs C and Mrs S informing them they were each to receive 40% of their late 
brothers pension. Mrs C and Mrs S were asked for their bank account details to pay the 
money across.
Prior to paying the money to Mrs C and Mrs S however, Standard Life said it was presented 
with new information including a copy of their late brothers will. As a resutl of this new 
information, Standard Life decided to pay 100% of his pension to a third party named in the 
will. Their late brother had specifically stated in his will that he wanted a named beneficiary 
to receive his private and NHS pensions.
As a result, Standard Life exercised its discretion to pay the person nominated in the will 
100% of Mrs C and Mrs Ss late brothers pension.
Mrs C and Mrs S complained to Standard Life. Standard Life upheld their complaint on the 
basis that it accepted it could have handled the situation better, but did not accept that Mrs C 
and Mrs S were enttiled to 40% of the pension. As a gesture of goodwill, for the upset and 
disappointment caused, Standard Life paid both Mrs C ad Mrs S £500 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mrs C and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and 
concluded that Standard Life could not reasonably be asked to do more than it had.
.
Mrs C and Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view and asked for their case to be referred 
to an ombudsman. Their complaint now comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I begin by extending my condolensces to Mrs C and Mrs S on the passing of their late 
brother. 
I recognise that having been told that they were going to each receive 40% of their late 
brothers pension, it must have been upsetting and disappointing to later be told that was 
no longer the case.
It is clear that Mrs C and Mrs S did have an expectation, one created by Standard Life,, 
that they would receive 40% of their late brothers pension. They learnt fairly late on, after 
providing their bank account details, that that expectation was not going to be met.
Standard Life has paid both Mrs C and Mrs S £500 to acknowledge the upset they have 
been caused by how it handled this situation. I think that is a fair and reasonable amount 
to compensate Mrs C and Mrs S for their non financial loss. It is in line with other awards 
made by this service.
I have gone on to consider whether Mrs C and Mrs S have also suffered a fiancial loss, 
such that I can reaonably require Standard Life to pay them 40% of the pension. 
Standard Life, as trustees, had absolute discretion to decide who should receive the 
benefits from their late brothers pension scheme. That discretion had to be exercised in 
a way that was not unreasonable or irrational. Based on what I have been told by 
Standard. Life about the way it exercised its discretion, I cannot fairly reach the 
conclusion that no reasonable decision maker could ever have come to the conclusion 
that Standard Life did. I cannot therefore interfere with the discretionary decision made 
by Standard Life. It follows therefore, that I am not satisfied that Mrs C and Mrs S have 
lost out financially as they were not entiitled to receive any benefits from their late 
brothers pension.  
Overall, I therefore agree with our investigator, I cant reasoanbly require Standard Life 
to do anything more than it has done already to put matters right. I therefore do not 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mrs C and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November  2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman