DRN-1243874
 
The complaint
Mr C says Capital One Europe plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments. 
What happened 
Mr C applied for a credit card by post in 2008. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.79 per £100 of the balance on Mr Cs 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr C 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr C disagrees. He says he was provided with insufficient information and had the 
information been clearer he wouldnt have taken the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post in 2008 when Mr C completed a postal application for a 
credit card. Capital One have given us a copy of the application form Mr C completed. 
Theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by ticking the box next to the words I wish to purchase Optional Capital One 
Payment Protection Insurance. I can see on Mr Cs application he has ticked this box and 
signed below this confirming his selection. If Mr C didnt want PPI he could have left the 
selection clear. 
So I think Mr C wouldve understood the policy was optional as that is how it was described 
and I think he ticked and signed for PPI on the application form because he wanted the 
cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  Mr C to 
take PPI. What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr C, it just gave 
him information about PPI (it was up to Mr C to assess his circumstances and decide if the product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr C needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr C says he was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
and his friends and family wouldve helped to make his credit card payments if he 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. But there is no 
guarantee his friends and family would be in a position to help and the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and savings and for potentially longer. So I 
cant see how knowing this information wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C 
about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One Europe plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.Caroline Davies
Ombudsman