DRN-2908675
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way EUI Limited trading as Diamond has handled a personal 
injury claim made by a third party against her motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Diamond includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
In April 2016 Miss Rs partner had an accident in her (Miss Rs) car which he wasnt insured 
to drive. The third party, who Ill refer to as B, made a claim for, amongst other things, 
personal injuries. In 2019 Diamond paid out the claim under Miss Rs motor insurance policy 
but said as she had been in breach of the terms and conditions, it couldnt provide any 
indemnity for the claim. So, it pursued her for the costs of the claim.
Miss R complained. She said her main concern was with the amount of the claim. She noted 
she was being asked to pay nearly £16,000, of which £10,000 was due to Bs personal injury 
claim. Miss R says this sum, in particular, is unfair as she didnt think the injuries B is 
claiming for were the result of the accident. She was also unhappy that Diamond didnt keep 
her updated with the claim including the potential amount shed be liable to pay.
Diamond accepted it hadnt provided Miss R with regular updates and offered her £150 for 
the trouble and upset this had caused her. But it was satisfied the claim had been settled 
fairly. Diamond provided Miss R with a detailed breakdown of the cost itd paid. It added that 
it made a risk to litigation offer, meaning the offer was made based on the current 
information available about the third party injuries. Diamond noted that had the matter 
continued to court it would have needed to apply for new medical examinations and reports 
which wouldve increased the likely costs.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Diamond had acted 
within the terms of the policy. And had taken a balanced approach to assessing whether to 
settle the claim in the way that it did. He considered the £150 compensation paid to Miss R 
for not keeping her up to date, was fair.
Miss R disagreed. Whilst she agreed she was liable to pay for the third party injuries, it was 
the extent of the claim she was unhappy about. So she asked for an ombudsmans decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin, its worth saying that although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome.
Under the General Exceptions heading in Miss Rs policy documents it states: 
You will not be covered for any liabilities you may have for any of the following: Any 
accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is: 
used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of 
Motor Insurance.
Miss Rs partner wasnt covered under the policy. And she (Miss R) doesnt dispute she was 
responsible for the car whilst her partner was driving it because shed given permission to 
him to drive the car. I appreciate that Miss R had every intention of adding her partner to the 
policy but as this wasnt done before the accident and he wasnt insured, Diamond arent 
able to redirect the claim.
Miss R signed a consent and indemnity form (C&I) on 13 September 2016. This allowed 
Diamond to take over the claim and gave it sole discretion about whether to settle the claim 
or defend it. I note there is a section in the policy which also allows for this. But with the C&I 
it also gave Diamond the right to recover the losses from the policyholder, who in this case 
was Miss R. Given Miss R consented to Diamond recovering its losses from her, I dont think 
its acting unfairly by doing so.
Miss R accepts shes liable to repay Diamond but shes not happy about the level of the 
claim. She says the third party (B) is claiming for injuries that werent sustained as part of the 
accident. And I can see shes provided detailed submissions about what she said happened 
on the day of the accident and about events that happened since. But my role here isnt to 
determine what happened at the time of the accident. My role is to decide whether Diamond 
have acted fairly when settling the third party claim instead of referring the claim to court. 
And if so, whether it is entitled to pursue Miss R for the costs associated with the claim.
As Ive said, I think Diamond are entitled to recover its costs from Miss R. In terms of its 
decision to settle the claim, I can see Diamond did carry out a detailed and thorough 
investigation. Ive seen the invoices that were submitted by third parties for vehicle damage 
and repair costs. Ive also seen medical evidence from those representing B. And based on 
all the information it had, Diamond decided to settle the claim in May 2019. Given its 
investigations and the further information it would have needed to support its case at court, 
which most likely wouldve resulted in additional costs being incurred for which Miss R would 
have been liable to pay, I think it acted fairly and reasonably when making this decision.
It did take a long time to settle the claim. But I can see that the reasons for this was due to 
the surrounding circumstances which meant Diamond was waiting for information such as 
medical evidence and police reports before it could make its decision. Nonetheless, I 
consider Diamond couldve kept Miss R updated on the progress of the case and also, as it 
said, about the likely cost it could claim from her. I think the compensation of £150 its 
already paid to her for the distress and inconvenience caused, is fair.
I know Miss R wants more detail about the claim but I can see Diamond have provided a 
detailed breakdown of the costs it is claiming from her. Its also explained why it decided to 
settle when it did. I cant say its acted unfairly here. 
I note what Miss R has said about the financial difficulties this will cause her and her family. I 
can see that Diamond have worked with Miss R to find a suitable and affordable payment 
plan for her. And whilst I sympathise with Miss Rs situation, I dont think it needs to do 
anything further. 
My final decisionEUI Limited has already paid Miss R £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
which I consider is fair and reasonable under all the circumstances. So, my decision is that 
EUI Limited doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman