DRN-3547460
The complaint
Mrs D complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her life and critical illness cover in 
2012. She said Lloyds made her feel she had to have the cover for her mortgage, but she 
didnt have a need for it as she had benefits through her employer. Shes also concerned the 
policies didnt provide sufficient cover in any event.
 
What happened
The background of this complaint is already well known to the parties. In summary, Mrs D 
took out a joint mortgage with her then husband in 2005. Subsequently, he suffered a critical 
illness and received a lump sum. In 2012, Mrs D took out life and critical illness cover 
following advice from Lloyds. 
In 2020, Mrs D stopped paying premiums and the policies were cancelled. She became 
concerned about the suitability of the advice and complained to Lloyds. Mrs D was unhappy 
with their response and asked us to investigate. Our Investigator issued a view explaining 
why he felt Mrs D had been provided with suitable advice.
Mrs D didnt agree with the view and set out the reasons for this. Therefore, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators conclusion and have set out my reasons 
below. 
 
Ive reviewed a copy of the fact find and recommendation letter produced by the advisor in 
December 2012. The advisor recorded Mrs Ds liabilities including a three-part interest only 
mortgage for varying terms of 20, 4 and 15 years. The total borrowing amounted to 
£114,993. He recorded details of income and expenditure and calculated disposable income 
and Mrs Ds budget for the protection. Also, she had deposit-based savings which totalled 
approximately £85,200. 
Additionally, the advisor recorded information about Mrs Ds personal circumstances. This 
included information about her two children and employment. Also, that she was separating 
from her husband who was not living in the matrimonial home and contributed to the 
mortgage payments. Ive considered everything Mrs D has said about her personal 
circumstances at the time. However, Im satisfied the fact find and recommendation letter 
reflect what the advisor understood about her circumstances.
 
In the fact find the advisor also made a record of Mrs Ds existing protection. This included 
employee benefits. He noted a shortfall between the term of the policy and the duration of 
one of the parts of the mortgage. 
 
Having reviewed the information, Im content the advisor sought to obtain sufficient 
information about Mrs Ds objectives, personal and financial circumstances in order to make 
a recommendation. The recommendation was for three life and critical illness policies on a 
level term basis and to lapse Mrs Ds existing policy. 
These policies suitably met Mrs Ds objective to protect her borrowings should she die or 
suffer a critical illness so she or her dependents wouldnt potentially lose the family home. 
The three policies covered the term of each of the parts of her interest only mortgage and 
would pay out a lump sum in accordance with the amount borrowed. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds ex-husband had received a significant payout following a critical illness 
and she has said this could have been used towards the mortgage in the event of her death 
or critical illness. Again, I understand this. However, in the fact find the advisor recorded that 
the amount was to remain in savings, and they had no plans for it. They had also used some 
of the money to pay off two loans and the savings did not fully meet the mortgage liability. 
Taking this into account, Im not persuaded the savings meant the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
Ive thought about whether this was a suitable recommendation based on the information 
obtained and Mrs Ds objectives at the time. The advisor understood Mrs D had a three-part 
interest only mortgage. This means mortgage payments wouldnt repay the borrowed 
amount and so the liability would not reduce over time. Therefore, the level term assurance 
would ensure Mrs D was fully covered for the duration of the mortgage. I note the premiums 
were also within the budget identified and the policies continued to be paid for some time 
after they were taken out - so they seem to have been affordable.
I appreciate what Mrs D has said about her employee benefits. They were recorded by the 
advisor in the fact find and the advisor also explained why he shouldnt have considered Mrs 
Ds death in service benefit to meet her objectives. Employee benefits are by no means 
guaranteed and will usually be lost in the event of a change of employment. Its not unusual 
for additional protection to be taken out. Therefore, Mrs Ds employee benefits do not 
persuade me that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
I also want to assure Mrs D Ive thought very carefully about the personal circumstances 
shes described. I wont repeat the circumstances in detail here as they are personal, but 
clearly this had a significant impact on Mrs D. Nevertheless, my role is to consider whether 
Lloyds reasonably sold the policies to Mrs D. The evidence from the fact find and 
recommendation letter dont give me cause to believe undue pressure was placed on Mrs D 
to take out the policies or that they were unsuitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D as trustee of 
the D Trust to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman