DRN-2563573
The complaint
Mr R and Miss W complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
What happened
Mr R and Miss W bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage  the mortgage 
started in September 1993 and ended in March 2004. Mr R and Miss W couldnt remember 
much about the sale. BoS couldnt confirm the sales channel but had considered the 
complaint on the basis that the sale took place in a branch of the bank and that it had 
advised Mr R and Miss W to take out the PPI. Mr R and Miss W told us the PPI had been 
added to the mortgage without their knowledge and consent.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr R and Miss W at a 
monthly cost of £13.80. The monthly benefit was £200.00, split equally between Mr R and 
Miss W. If they had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R and Miss W disagreed, and asked that it 
be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R and Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R and Miss W complained that the PPI was added to their mortgage without their 
knowledge and consent. BoS couldnt provide copies of any documentation from the point of 
sale  although this is not surprising as the mortgage was repaid nearly 17 years ago, and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us a 
copy of its computer records of Mr R and Miss Ws mortgage account, including an extract 
from the list of transactions on the account. As Mr R and Miss W havent been able to give 
us much information about what happened when they took out the mortgage, Ive also taken 
into account what we know about other BoS PPI sales at around the same time.  
Looking at the list of transactions, I can see that the PPI premiums were debited to the 
mortgage account. BoS also sent us information to say that there was a standing order being 
paid into the mortgage each month - from another BoS account - to cover the premiums, 
separately from the main mortgage payment. I think Mr R and Miss W would most likely 
have had to sign a standing order agreement for this. Ive also kept in mind that I havent 
seen problems with PPI being added without consent in other, similar BoS sales. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R and Miss W said, but on balance, I dont think I can 
fairly say its most likely that the PPI was added without Mr R and Miss Ws knowledge and 
consent, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I 
simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Ive considered this complaint on the basis that BoS advised Mr R and Miss W to take out 
the policy  which holds it to a higher standard - so it shouldve made sure it was suitable for 
them. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that either Mr R or Miss W wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear 
how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr R and Miss W, although I dont think theyd 
have agreed to take it without some idea of the cost.
Miss W said she wouldve been entitled at least six months sick pay from her employer. Its 
not clear what sick pay Mr R wouldve been entitled to from his employer, although when 
Miss W first submitted the complaint, she thought his entitlement wouldve been less than 
three months pay. Mr R and Miss W also said they had some savings they couldve relied 
on. 
From all this I think Mr R and Miss W couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage 
payments if either was off sick for any length of time or had lost their job. And I think Mr R 
and Miss W could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was 
secured on their home. Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months in the event of a successful claim.
On balance, although I cant know whether BoS clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
think Mr R and Miss W would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if Mr R and Miss W couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and Miss W, as I 
can see they feel strongly about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant 
fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
Finally, I should say that Miss W mentioned being off sick from work at some point after the 
PPI was taken out. I can see from the records BoS sent in that the policy was changed to 
cover only Mr R in 1996. If Miss Ws time off work was during the time she was covered 
under the policy, she may wish to contact BoS to see if a retrospective claim is possible. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Miss Ws complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman