DRN-3263400
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about the manner in which AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AA) has handled the repairs to her car following a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
At the time of the claim Mrs J was the principal policyholder and her husband  Mr J  was a 
named driver. Mr J has helped Mrs J in bringing this complaint. But as Mrs J is the principal 
policyholder all references to her below should be read as being in respect of both herself 
and Mr J.
Reference to AA includes its agents.  
What happened
Mrs Js car had various parts stolen from it while it was parked on her drive. She reported 
the theft to the police and AA. AA arranged for one of its recommended repairers (the 
garage) to fix the car.
Mrs J was unhappy with the time it took the garage to complete its work. And when the car 
came back it still needed further repairs. Also, when returning the car, the garage reversed it 
into a wall causing further damage. The garage took the car away again to sort out. Mrs J 
remained unhappy with the standard of repairs and the car went back to the garage several 
times. Mrs J remained unhappy, believing further work on the car was needed.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 January 2022. For ease I've copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Js made a number of points, some of which have been 
resolved. But matters have been ongoing for a considerable period of time with the car going 
back and forth to the garage. Ive considered everything on file carefully. But in this decision 
I don't intend to refer to each and every event. Instead I will focus on what I see as the key 
outstanding issues following our investigator's attempts to resolve the complaint.
Initially, it took the garage around three months to complete the first set of repairs. I can 
understand why Mrs J thinks that is far too long, especially as the garage told her that the 
repairs should only take about two weeks once all the parts were received. It seems that 
matters were complicated because: Mrs Js car has some non-standard accessories; when 
some of the ordered parts arrived, it seems the garage hadn't ordered all the necessary 
component parts to fit them so had to order those separately; as the original parts had been 
stolen the garage couldn't use those as a template showing exactly how they fitted and this 
caused a further delay. Also the garage said it had to release some of its staff because of 
the situation with the pandemic. So there does appear to be some mitigation for the length of 
the initial repair. But I can understand why Mrs J felt that three months was too long.
But some of the repairs weren't up to standard requiring the garage to take the car back and 
do further repairs. But despite that Mrs J hasn't ever been satisfied with the quality of the 
repairs and the garage has accepted that further repairs are required. So, after initially taking 
three months to repair her car the garage hasn't ever completed repairs to an acceptable 
standard.
As I've said above the garage has acknowledged that further work is required to rectify 
certain issues. So I don't think theres any doubt that not all the work was up to standard. 
Indeed the garage has said that, as a gesture of goodwill, its completed additional work, for 
example fitting some - previously unfitted - accessories to the car. And its done that in 
recognition that it hasnt done everything as well as it should have. But it seems to accept 
that it still hasn't put everything right. But, I've noted that in an email to AA in November 2021 
the garage said that it didn't feel it was responsible for two items that Mrs J said needed 
repairing, those being marks to door handles and rust to the panel below the rear door.
So I think AA needs to establish exactly what work the garage is responsible for which 
remains outstanding. To do so I think it's fair that AA pay for an independent engineer to 
inspect Mrs Js car in the presence of Mrs J (or her chosen representative for example Mr J) 
and a representative from the garage. AA should offer Mrs J the choice from three 
independent engineering firms to carry out the inspection so she can be satisfied that the 
appointed engineer is truly independent. The independent engineer should determine 
exactly what additional work is still outstanding as a result of the original claim and the 
subsequent repairs. And AA and Mrs J should agree to abide by the independent engineers 
opinion.
The engineer should also provide a reasonable estimate of how long it should take to 
complete those repairs, allowing for the delivery of parts etc. AA should then arrange for 
those repairs to be completed, if the garage doesn't feel it's in a position to complete those 
repairs within the time-frame set out by the independent engineer then AA should appoint a 
different repairer to do the work who can do it within that time-frame. Once finished the 
independent engineer should inspect the car, in Mrs Js (or her representatives) presence, 
to ensure the work is of a reasonable commercial standard before returning it to Mrs J.
Further, I note this matter has been ongoing since July 2020 when Mrs J was without her car 
for three months. The extra work required will again result in Mrs J being without her car 
while repairs are completed. So, to minimise the impact of that on Mrs J, I think it's fair that 
AA provides her with a courtesy car/hire car that is of a similar class of car to hers for the 
duration of the final repairs.
Also, I recognise that the impact of the poor quality of repairs has been a source of 
frustration, distress and inconvenience for Mrs J. And there have been weeks at a time 
where Mrs J hasn't had the benefit or enjoyment of her own car. I recognise that AA and the 
garage have made attempts to address some of the inconvenience to Mrs J. For example, 
by doing additional work on the car that wasn't required because of the claim, such as fitting 
additional accessories. AAs also authorised repairs to some non-standard accessories even 
though that isn't something the policy covers. But while I recognise that those are gestures 
of goodwill aimed at putting things right, I don't think they go far enough to address the 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs J. So I think AA should pay her £300 compensation.
Developments 
Both Mrs J and AA provided further comments following my provisional decision. Mrs J ran 
through some of the background to her complaint. She said that when she reported the theft 
that included theft of some of the cars accessories. She said AA had initially offered her the 
option of declaring the car a total loss or having it repaired. And because of the relatively short estimated time-frame for repairs she took that option. But AA later told her it wouldnt 
cover the additional costs of the accessories, which was around £220. She told AA that if it 
had told her at the outset that the accessories wouldn't be covered she would have gone 
down the total loss route and asked for that option then. But AA said that was no longer an 
option as the garage had ordered the parts. She said it was at that point that AA agreed to 
replace the accessories. So she didn't believe that AA had agreed to replace them as a 
gesture of goodwill. She added that the garage had already said that all the outstanding 
repairs were justified so didn't know why they were disputing some of those now. 
AA said it would like my decision to reflect that AA should only pay for rectification work 
related to the initial repair following the theft of the vehicle. Similarly, it said my decision 
should reflect that it should only have to provide a replacement car for the duration of the 
rectification work deemed related to the initial repair. It said that Mrs Js policy only entitles 
her to a standard courtesy car, usually a one litre car, when in for repair.
Both AA and Mrs J also contacted us about AA appointing an independent engineer to 
assess the car. AA had appointed an engineer without giving Mrs J the option of three 
engineering firms to carry out that assessment, as set out in my provisional decision. We 
reminded AA that, in order to implement my findings, it needed to offer Mrs J the option of 
three engineering firms. AA didn't think that was a reasonable approach but said that if Mrs J 
wanted to appoint her own engineer it would pay for that. We asked Mrs J what her preferred 
approach would be. In response she said that she was happy for AA to go ahead with its 
choice of independent engineer. However, she told us that she didn't wish to have anything 
more to do with the garage.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Having studied the full file I was aware when I made my provisional decision of the history 
that Mrs J referred to. So I was aware of the discussions about whether or not the car should 
be declared a total loss and whether the costs of repairs to non-standard accessories were 
covered by the policy. The evidence on file indicates that, Mrs J was clearly not happy with 
the situation and that AA later waived collection of this as, what its file refers to at one point 
as, a softener. But perhaps Mrs J wasn't aware of this. 
AA has asked me to include some specific wording in my findings that AA should only be 
responsible for rectification work deemed related to the initial repair following the theft of the 
vehicle. I agree AA wouldn't be responsible for any rectification work required for any 
private work agreed directly between Mrs J and the garage unrelated to the claim and which 
Mrs J was funding. However, the garage was acting as AAs agent, so any additional work it 
undertook as a result of the claim will remain AAs responsibility. 
AA will need to provide a hire car, of a similar class of vehicle as Mrs Js car, for the agreed 
duration of the rectification work as set out by the appointed independent engineer. AA said 
that Mrs Js policy only entitles her to a standard small courtesy car. But, because the 
repairs still aren't up to standard, I don't think it's fair for AA to rely on the policy terms, 
thereby restricting Mrs J to a small courtesy car for the duration of any further repairs 
required. She shouldnt be unreasonably inconvenienced by AAs failure to fix her car. So I 
think it's fair that AA provide her with a courtesy or hire car of a similar class to her own for 
the duration of the rectification works agreed by the independent engineer. AA didn't think it should have to offer Mrs J the choice of three separate engineering firms. 
We put this to Mrs J who told us that she didn't want to make things more difficult than they 
needed to be and was happy to go ahead with the engineers AA had previously appointed. 
Mrs J said that she didn't wish to have anything more to do with the garage. While I can 
understand that point of view, in the interests of balance, I think its fair that the garage has 
the opportunity to put its side across to the independent engineer. But Mr J doesn't need to 
engage with the garages representative if she doesn't wish to.
The rest of my findings remain unchanged from my provisional decision.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Instruct an independent engineering firm to carry out an inspection of her car to 
determine exactly what additional work is still outstanding as a result of the original 
claim and the subsequent repairs that AA is responsible for putting right. 
The appointed independent engineer should inspect Mrs Js car in the presence of a 
representative from the garage and Mrs J (assuming they wish to attend). AA should 
pay for any rectification work, within a reasonable time-frame and to a reasonable 
standard, as decided by the independent engineer. If the garage isn't in a position to 
do the work within a reasonable period then AA should appoint another repairer to do 
it. 
AA should provide Mrs J with a replacement car  for the duration of the repair work 
 of a class similar to Mrs Js car. On completion the independent engineer should 
inspect Mrs Js car, offering Mrs J or her representative the opportunity to attend that 
inspection, to ensure the work is of a reasonable commercial standard before 
returning the car to Mrs J.
AA should pay Mrs J compensation of £300 to address her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman