DRN-3907650
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Think Money Limited didnt do more to protect him when he fell victim 
to a scam.
Background
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties and so I dont intend to set them 
out comprehensively. In 2021, Mr F fell victim to a romance scam. He was vulnerable 
following a recent bereavement and began communicating with a woman online who 
claimed to live in the United States. These interactions went on for some time and included 
many video calls. Mr F believed he was establishing a relationship with this woman. 
Unfortunately, it turned out that she started communicating with Mr F because she wanted to 
scam him.
She started asking Mr F for money for specific purposes. This went on over a period of just 
over eight months. In January 2022, he suspected a scam and so he called Think Money. 
During that call, an employee of the bank told him that it was likely that this was a scam and 
asked that he not send any more payments to this person. 
It also investigated whether it couldve done more to protect Mr F from fraud. It said it hadnt 
been aware of the bereavement Mr F had suffered and so wasnt able to factor in any 
potential vulnerability in the way that it helped him manage his account. It also said that it 
couldnt realistically have intervened to prevent the scam because the activity on his account 
didnt have the hallmarks of a scam. The payments were quite low value and they were 
spread out over an extended period meaning that there was no clear pattern that might 
otherwise have helped them identify a fraud risk.
However, when investigating the complaint, it listened to a phone conversation Mr F had with 
Think Money on 22 October 2021. During this call, Mr F shared some information that 
strongly suggested that the relationship hed established with this woman was really a scam. 
Although it didnt take any action at the time, Think Money accepted that it was on notice of 
the fact that Mr F was at risk of financial harm. For that reason, it agreed to refund all the 
payments made from that date onwards.  
Unfortunately, in March 2022, Mr F began sending payments to the scammer again. By that 
point, a complaint had been made to this service on his behalf by his representatives. It was 
looked into by one of our Investigators. She said that, once it was established that Mr F had 
been a victim of fraud, it should have either imposed a restriction on his account or an 
internal instruction to flag payments like the ones hed made to the scammer for closer 
attention. She thought that, if it had done so, it wouldve prevented him from re-establishing 
contact with the scammer and starting to send money again.
However, she accepted that he had been told that he shouldnt send any more funds to this 
individual and so concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for him to be considered 
partially responsible for his losses. She recommended that Think Money refund him 50% of 
the value of the payments he made following its conversation with him in January 2022.
Think Money disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said that Mr F had been receptive 
to the advice of its call handler at the time, seemed to accept that he had been victim of a 
scam and agreed to not make any more payments. As a result, it didnt think there wouldve 
been any obvious need to have acted in anticipation of Mr F falling victim to the manipulation 
of the same scammer all over again.
Because Think Money disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Think Money has already refunded the payments Mr F made between 22 October 2021 and 
the phone call he had with one of its employees. The only issue under consideration 
therefore is whether it should also be expected to reimburse Mr F for the payments he made 
after that call. The starting point in law is that he is presumed liable for them because he 
authorised them. However, Think Money is also expected to:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In summary Think Money was expected to be on the lookout for account activity that 
suggested an increased risk of fraud. In this instance, it knew that Mr F had fallen victim to a 
scam very recently. This was something it needed to factor in when attempting to protect him 
from fraud and scams from that point onwards. When he asked Think Money to process 
payments via a third-party payment remittance company, it should have recognised this was 
following the same pattern as the payments he made as part of the scam. It should therefore 
have intervened and spoken to Mr F before processing them. Its highly likely it wouldve 
been able to persuade him that this was a scam and get his consent to cancelling the 
payment requests. 
Think Money has said that its systems allow it to impose an exception on an account that 
couldve blocked Mr F from making payments like these. However, it didnt think it had any 
good reason for doing so because of the way Mr F had reacted during the call in which he 
was told that it was likely he was the victim of a scam and that he shouldnt send any more 
money.
Ive listened to that call. And while its apparent that Mr F had begun to acquire some insight 
into what had happened to him, I dont think it was enough for Think Money to be confident 
he wouldnt be manipulated into sending money once again. The tone of his voice during the 
call certainly displayed an element of uncertainty. He told that the call handler that he was 
still in love with the woman hed been sending money to, even though hed just been told she was a scammer. And although the call handler implored him to not send any more money to 
the scammer, he didnt unambiguously agree to go along with that request. Instead, he 
talked in general terms about the need for him to focus on himself more in future.
Overall, Think Money needed to factor in what it knew about the scam hed fallen victim to 
and bear that in mind when assessing the risk associated with later payments. If it had done 
so, I think its likely it wouldve prevented him from making those subsequent payments. 
However, Ive also considered whether Mr F should be considered partially responsible for 
his own losses here. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory 
negligence but borne in mind the fact that I must decide this case on the basis of what I 
consider to have been fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr F was told clearly that he should stop sending money to the scammer but acted against 
that advice. For that reason, I agree with the conclusion reached by the Investigator that its 
fair and reasonable for Mr F to be considered partially responsible and for Think Money to 
make a deduction of 50% from any refund it pays him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr F accepts my decision, 
Think Money Limited needs to refund 50% of each of the payments he made to the scammer 
after the January phone call. 
It should also add 8% simple interest per annum for each payment refunded calculated to 
run from the date of the payment until date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman