DRN-2727634
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt cancel two direct debit payments.
What happened
Mr D says his Nationwide bank application (app) showed two direct payments as cancelling 
but were later paid. He says that caused him significant problems as he was due to move 
home and didnt have enough money to pay for the removal costs. Mr D says there must 
have been a problem with the app and says Nationwide agreed that there was a problem 
when he called. He would like compensation for what took place and for the distress he was 
caused. And says he was told would receive his money back on the same day he 
complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide doesnt accept making a mistake and says it didnt have any record of the 
request to cancel the direct debits. It doesnt accept telling Mr D that it made a mistake or 
that there was a problem and says it refunded Mr D the day after he asked it to refund the 
money.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought it clear Mr D wanted to cancel the direct debits and thought it more likely there was a 
problem with the app. The investigator recommended Nationwide pay £50 compensation 
and also thought Mr D ought to have been given the correct information about the payment 
refund timescale.
Nationwide doesnt accept that view and says it doesnt have a record of the direct debits 
being shown as cancelling or any evidence Mr D tried to cancel them. It doesnt accept its 
advisor said the direct debits looked like they were recorded as cancelling and says Mr D 
told it twice he wasnt sure if he cancelled them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but for slightly 
different reasons to those reached by the investigator. I dont think this complaint requires a 
provisional decision as I intend to order Nationwide pay £50 compensation.
I have looked carefully at Nationwides records and listened to the calls. I have not seen any 
evidence on those records of Mr D cancelling the two direct debit payments and think that Mr 
D is unclear when he may have cancelled them or if he did. I would have expected a record 
of the cancelled direct debits on Nationwides systems and records. So, I cant be sure in 
those circumstances if Nationwide made a mistake or that its app was at fault. I am satisfied 
that Nationwide during the relevant call didnt accept its app was at fault or that it made a 
mistake. 
I have no doubt Mr D wanted to cancel the direct debits but I, for the reasons I have 
explained cant be sure what took place here. In any event I think that Mr D ought to have 
told the two companies that were the recipients of the direct debits that he wished to cancel 
them as there would have been a risk of them being paid even if Nationwide cancelled them. 
And he could have checked prior to the payments being made if they been cancelled as on 
his account they were not displayed as cancelled at any stage.
I am satisfied that during the call between Nationwide and Mr D that Mr D was told on 
numerous occasions that he would receive the money back in his account that day. Im also 
satisfied that Mr D told Nationwide how important that was and that he didnt have any 
money to pay for the moving costs. I can see that Mr D received the money the following day 
and that Nationwide hasnt explained to him why. I would have expected Nationwide to have 
provided accurate information to Mr D in these circumstances and to have told him if the 
refund was delayed taking into account how important that money was. For that reason, I 
think Nationwide ought to pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr D 
was caused by what took place. I think that amount fair and reasonable.
Overall, I find Nationwide could have dealt more appropriately with part of this complaint. But 
I cant fairly hold it responsible for the failure to cancel the direct debits. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Nationwide to pay £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Mr D £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman