DRN-3698407
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has unfairly refused her life assurance claim 
under her and her late husbands joint term assurance policy. Instead it has voided the policy 
altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation. Mrs A says Mr A did not withhold any 
relevant medical information and the claim should have been paid in 2021.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for a decreasing term assurance policy for mortgage protection 
purposes on 8 February 2016. It offered them an initial £200,000 of cover for a 25-year term.  
The policy came into force on 1 March 2016 and was issued on standard rates. 
In July 2021, Mr A sadly passed away unexpectedly following acute heart failure. Mrs As 
father assisted her with pursuing a claim to Zurich. 
The following month, Zurich requested further medical evidence in order to assess Mrs As 
claim. In November 2021, Zurich refused the claim. It said the policy issued in March 2016 
was based on the answer Mr A gave to a particular question about the heart murmur he had 
disclosed. But it felt he had answered the question incorrectly. He should have explained he 
had a longstanding diagnosis of aortic stenosis, which is considered a heart abnormality. 
Accordingly, Zurich told Mrs A it would return all of the premiums paid for the policy, which 
were £834.60 to date  though the payment was not made at that time, since Mrs A had 
lodged a complaint.   
In January 2022, Zurich rejected the complaint. It said as a company, it did always look to 
pay valid claims to its policyholders. However, if upon receipt of a claim it discovered 
medical evidence that it should have known from the outset, it will consider rewriting the 
policy as if its underwriters had known the correct medical history. However, sometimes the 
medical information will mean that insurance couldnt have been offered at all  and that was 
the case for Mr A. It could not have insured someone in his particular circumstances.  
Zurich did appreciate that it had caused some delays in processing the claim, so it paid Mrs 
A £100. However, it was not otherwise persuaded to change its view.  
Mrs A then appealed Zurichs decision, suppling information from Dr G, Mr As treating 
Cardiology Professor from January 2022. She said that if Mr A had completed the 
application in 2021 not 2016, he still would have answered the policy application questions in 
the same way because he was healthy, he took no medication and his hospital had no plans 
for operating on him.
Zurich then wrote to Dr G for further information and he supplied a response dated 1 April 
2022. However, in letters of April and May 2022, Zurich told Mrs A that it was unwilling to 
change its stance on the claim.  
Mrs A therefore referred the complaint to this service. She explained that when rejecting her 
claim in November 2021, Zurich had placed a very abrupt call in front of her young child, 
which she found insensitive. Further, she had been in the early stages of pregnancy when 
Mr A passed away and therefore had suffered financially and emotionally, as Mr A had been 
the sole family earner at the time. In her view, Zurich was unfairly reneging on its insurance 
contract obligations.  
Mrs A also said:
Mr A had undergone annual check-ups with the specialist heart hospital from the age 
of 18 months;
there was no sudden change in his condition, diagnosis or treatment at any time, nor 
specifically in the assessment immediately prior to him completing the application;
as a family they understood Mr A had a heart murmur, which required regular check-
ups but no medication, interventions or any adjustments to how he lived his life;
she disputed that the term heart abnormality had ever been told to Mr A;
she feels to suggest a misrepresentation took place amounts to defamation;
Mr A answered questions openly and accurately as a layperson, not a doctor;
if a medical Professor could not have anticipated that Mr A would go on to suffer from 
cardiac failure, how was Mr A supposed to have knowledge of the same;
in the appeal process, Zurich wrote to Dr G and he set out a letter dated 6 April 2022 
which confirmed Mr A had been a patient of his for the last 17 years with stable, 
asymptomatic aortic stenosis hence his conservative management. His premature 
death was totally unexpected and devastating for his family and us healthcare 
professionals alike;
Dr G also urged Zurich to pay the claim but it chose not to do so;
instead Zurich refused the claim again on appeal with undue haste, given it issued 
the reply on 11 April 2022, which was then confusingly revisited in May 2022. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He said that he felt Mr A ought 
to have answered the sub-question positively in respect of his disclosed heart murmur. Had 
he done so, hed have disclosed further information meaning Zurich couldnt have insured 
him. So it had fairly refused the claim and returned the premiums paid to Mrs A.  
Mrs A disagreed. She made a number of further comments. She said, in summary:
it appeared our investigator had based his view on Mr A having made a 
misrepresentation but in her view, he had not done so;
to conclude otherwise fell outside of the requirements of the relevant legislation 
concerning misrepresentations;
Mr A had been diagnosed with a heart murmur at a very young age;
it might have been the case that his parents or treating professionals knew of a 
different name or reason for his heart murmur, but he did not;
Mr A had never seen his medical records during his lifetime;
he filled out his application with utmost good faith, disclosing his heart murmur;
her view on the subset question is that Mr A did not misrepresent himself because he 
took no medication and therefore he believed his heart murmur to be innocent 
without underlying abnormalities;
Mr As death was described by Dr G as totally unexpected given he had no alarming 
signs whatsoever;
Mr A did not know his heart murmur could be described as anything other than 
innocent;
he gave Zurich the chance to access his medical records at the outset but it chose 
not to do so;if it held concerns about innocent heart murmurs then its systems should have 
triggered the need for a doctors report before accepting the insurance application;
it is her view that Zurich has spent a significant time trying to avoid the claim;
about 2% of the population have heart murmurs;
either Zurich is charging premiums based on risk whereby it should honour insurance 
claims, or the wider public needs to know that policies such as Mr As will not cover 
them fairly in the event of their death;
she therefore wants the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
Zurich confirmed it had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr A having passed away and I send my heartfelt condolences to Mrs 
A and her family. I realise this decision will not be what Mrs A has hoped for, however, I am 
also unable to uphold this complaint. Ill explain exactly why Ive reached this outcome. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done. 
When Mrs A obtained coroners information after Mr A passed away, his cause and 
underlying causes of death (in order) were noted as 1a) Acute Cardiac Failure; 1b) a type of 
ventricular hypertrophy from aortic valve stenosis; and 1c) bicuspid aortic valve with fibrosis 
and calcification. 
Mrs A explained that the hypertrophy likely arose at the time of Mr As sudden cardiac event. 
That notwithstanding, the evidence caused Zurich to revisit what was set out on Mr As 
policy application. It therefore sought information from Mr As GP in a targeted report asking 
for relevant cardiac information in the five years preceding the policy application. Based on 
the medical evidence it received, Zurich said its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have 
offered Mr A any life cover at all. And so, it cant pay a claim now. It therefore falls to me to look at what Mr A was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation, upon which Zurich could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the 
policy. The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the 
application. That means looking at what Mr A was asked against the relevant medical 
records up to the date the policy went on risk  so 1 March 2016.  
Mr A was asked:
Have you ever had: any heart disease or disorder, such as heart attack, angina, 
chest pain, cardiomyopathy, heart murmur, narrow or leaky heart valves, or heart 
surgery?
He replied Yes and selected heart murmur from the list of options. This then produced 
some subset questions, which were answered as follows:
How was your heart murmur detected?
Answer - Found during a medical examination, no symptoms
Have you had any tests or investigations for your heart murmur?
Answer  Yes
Are you required to take any medication for your heart murmur?
Answer  No
Has your doctor told you that your heart murmur was innocent, with no 
underlying heart abnormality?
Answer  Yes
It is the last question that Zurich says was answered wrongly. If Mr A had said no, it would 
have triggered a report being sought over the status of his heart murmur and specifically to 
ascertain the underlying cause. However, because he did not do so (and made no other 
disclosures requiring underwriting) its systems offered cover on standard terms. 
Mr and Mrs A were also sent a copy of his questions to review, with a declaration which 
included their confirmation that:
We have answered the questions in this form honestly and accurately and the 
information we have provided in response to the questions is, to the best of our 
knowledge, complete and correct; and 
We are aware that if we haven't answered the questions correctly the plan may be 
cancelled, or its terms may be changed, or a claim may be rejected or not fully paid. 
Cancelling a plan means that no cover or other benefits will be provided.
I therefore appreciate why Mrs A has explained that Mr A understood the need to disclose 
information and he took time to answer questions put to him in utmost good faith. And I do 
not disbelieve her account of Mr As knowledge of his congenital heart murmur. 
However, it isnt disputed that Mr A correctly told Zurich about his heart murmur. What is in 
question is where he was asked if he had been told the murmur was innocent, without any 
underlying defect. And in my view, I believe Mr A should have said no to this question.  
I say this looking at the medical evidence that is most proximate to the policy application, 
which Mr As GP supplied to Zurich. On 21 August 2015, Mr A had attended his routine 
periodic review at the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Centre at the specialist hospital, headed by Dr G and following which a letter was issued to his GP, for his records. Mr A had 
been visiting this clinic for some 12 years at that time. 
The letter confirms Mr A had no symptoms and follow up for echocardiogram, x-ray, MRI and 
bloods would follow in a years time. But, it also concluded by explaining that:
In summary [Mr A] has moderate to severe aortic stenosis present in the context of 
bicuspid aortic valve and there is a moderate aortic dilatation but all of these are 
currently stable.
It is my understanding that aortic stenosis describes congenital heart defects that obstruct 
blood flow from the heart. And this is borne out by the information Ive seen from Zurich in 
respect of its underwriting and assessments from its medical officers.  
I know that it may well be the case that Mr A did not see each (or even any) letter that was 
sent over his extensive history under the care of Dr Gs clinic. But, I do not consider it likely, 
on balance, that Mr A was unaware of the underlying reason for his heart murmur. To 
assume that would be to conclude that the content of the correspondence from the clinic 
wasnt ever discussed with Mr A, and I am not persuaded that his ongoing clinic attendances 
would have neglected to address his confirmed diagnosis. 
Moreover, if I were to determine that no misrepresentation occurred in the application, Id 
have to presume that Mr A had been told that his heart murmur was innocent, with no 
underlying heart abnormality, such that he could answer the subset question positively. I 
have seen no clear evidence of that. 
On the medical information available, heart murmurs can be identified in two categories  
innocent or abnormal. The former may fluctuate, cease and have no known irregularity or 
identifiable origin. The latter can be caused by a number of factors, one of which is a 
congenital heart condition. And I find that this was the case for Mr A, as confirmed by his 
medical records.  
And though Dr Gs letter of 1 April 2021 does indeed note how Mr A was a model patient 
with excellent exercise test results and no medication, that same letter says, Mr A was a 
patient under my care since 2004 with stable, moderate asymptomatic aortic stenosis. As 
Ive said above, I believe this evidence confirms Mr A had an identified congenital heart 
abnormality, and that it is more likely than not that Mr A knew of that diagnosis.  
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. Under relevant law (applying from 2013 
and so at the time Mr and Mrs A sought their cover), on consumer disclosures, an insurer 
only has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by that person before a 
consumer insurance contract was entered into for qualifying misrepresentations. 
What that means is if (a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation; and b) if the insurer shows that 
without the misrepresentation, it would have entered into the contract on different terms. 
A qualifying misrepresentation must be classed as either deliberate/reckless or otherwise 
careless. Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight 
to serious negligence, and I think Mr As actions sit in the lower end of that range of 
responses. I sympathise with Mrs A, as I can see that Mr A had answered all of the other 
questions about his heart murmur correctly.  
But, Mr A needed to show more care in answering the questions put to him, rather than 
substituting his own view for what was asked. Though Mrs A said Zurich had the chance to seek evidence for itself, the application process was designed to trigger the requirement for 
medical reports based on the information disclosed. Because Mr A did not answer the 
question positively, the cover was offered on standard terms without further underwriting.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy (for the 
policyholder that misrepresented) and return the premiums paid from the outset.
Zurich hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2016 as it would have if it had 
known about Mr As correct circumstances. Its underwriting guidance confirms it couldnt 
have insured Mr A based on his confirmed diagnoses on the 2015 letter. It is therefore fair 
and in accordance with the relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for Zurich to void the 
cover now. That means I cant ask it to pay Mrs As claim in full, because Zurich would not 
have been in a position to insure Mr A, had it known of his accurate medical history.  
The only remaining point is that Zurich need not have voided Mrs As cover if she had 
wanted to retain it, on the basis the policy could have been severed. That is because there is 
no evidence of any misrepresentation in respect of Mrs As application for the joint cover.  
I have not seen confirmation that Zurich and Mrs A have liaised in respect of what to do with 
the policy going forward, aside from a premium payment being returned to Mrs A in late 
August 2022. If Mrs A had wanted to retain her cover, I trust this will have been offered to 
her  and if not that Zurich will do so now. This decision does not have any bearing on Mrs 
As insurance should that matter remain unresolved, or her right to pursue any separate 
complaint about that  if so required.  
My final decision
As Ive set out above, I consider Zurich to have acted reasonably in determining it could not 
have insured Mr A in March 2016 if it had known his correct medical history relating to his 
congenital heart condition. It has therefore rightly refused the claim made in 2021. 
Despite my sympathy for Mrs As circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman