DRN-4018475
The complaint
Mr O says it was unfair that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a default on his credit 
file when he continued to make payments on his account but failed to update it on his 
situation and payment details. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr O had an arrangement with Santander to pay back his overdraft. At the time Mr 
O was studying abroad. The arrangement was to pay £88 a month towards his overdraft 
debt. Santanders notes record that in March 2021 Santander reviewed the arrangement 
with Mr O over the phone and told him his next review was 1 October 2020 and that he 
would need to call it to continue the arrangement. 
Mr O continued making payments towards the arrangement but for some of the payments 
(August, September, October and December 2021) payments werent made on time and Mr 
O failed to call Santander on the review date of 1 October 2021. Santander says it attempted 
to contact Mr O about this by letter and phone but had no response.
Santander wrote to Mr O at the address it had registered for him on 31 December 2021 
giving him notice that it was going to default the account unless the balance was settled in 
14 days. As Mr O didnt get in touch or pay the balance his account was defaulted and this 
was reported on his credit file.
Mr O complained to Santander about this. He said he didnt get the notice as he was 
studying overseas and it was difficult to get in contact with Santander from where he was 
and thinks it was unfair of Santander to default his account when the payments were only a 
few days late. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr O fairly and so didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr O has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr O back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Os main complaint point is that it was unfair Santander registered a default on his credit 
file. So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in defaulting Mr 
Os account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, sending him a 
default notice, closing his account and registering a default when he didnt pay back the 
outstanding balance of his overdraft in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Santander acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Os account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that Santander had informed Mr O that he needed to call it on 1 October 2021 and that Mr 
Os payments were due on the 1st of the month. But despite this Mr O failed to call it or make 
all his payments on time. So on this basis Mr O had broken his arrangement with Santander.  
Mr O says he didnt receive any letters as he was living abroad and that he doesnt 
understand why Santander didnt call before it defaulted his account. But Santander did try 
to call Mr O and couldnt reach him and the letters it sent were to the address Mr O had 
provided. And Mr O understood he was in an arrangement and was told he needed to 
contact Santander on 1 October 2021 to review this, but he didnt do this. 
The outstanding balance on Mr Os overdraft was a debt due to Santander and it was 
entitled to collect this. So, providing Santander followed the correct processes (and from 
what I can see it did) I cant say it did anything wrong in closing the account and registering a 
default. And I dont think the difficulties Santander had in getting in contact with Mr O were 
due to mistakes made on Santanders part. 
So Im satisfied Santander was entitled to make the decision to close Mr Os account and 
register a default as it gave Mr O notice of what was to happen if he didnt take appropriate 
action. 
I understand that Mr O is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report 
especially considering he continues to make efforts to settle his outstanding debt. But 
Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. And in Mr Os case his debt 
wasnt settled in the required time so what Santander reported is a true account of what 
happened.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Santander treated Mr O unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman