DRN-4235221
The complaint
Mr T has complained that in October 2022 Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) refused to 
provide him with an endorsed cheque, even though it had provided him with one previously 
in 2021.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr T asked YBS for an endorsed cheque drawn on his account, as he 
wanted to make an investment and his broker required the cheques to be endorsed.
Mr T says he was told that YBS was unable to endorse cheques, even though it had 
endorsed a cheque previously. I understand Mr T attended branch on three occasions to 
attempt to obtain an endorsed cheque, but says the member of staff pointed out hed been 
three times and had already been told YBS couldnt endorse cheques. Mr T says that he felt 
brushed off and not listened to by YBS.
Mr T attempted to make the investment by sending an unendorsed cheque with his 
investment instructions to his broker. This was rejected on the basis that the cheque was not 
endorsed.
Mr T was later able to make the investment and has provided evidence from his broker to 
show that the delay caused him to lose out on £95.85 due to the share price of the 
investment changing in that time.
YBS issued a final response letter on 5 December 2022 and acknowledged how Mr T felt 
about how hed been treated. It paid Mr T a total of £107.52, which comprised of £90 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr T experienced and £27.52 to cover Mr Ts telephone and 
transport costs.
YBS then issued a further final response letter on 16 December 2022. In that letter YBS paid 
Mr T a further £52.52 to better reflect the impact this matter has had on Mr T and the amount 
of times that Mr T attended branch.
After Mr T referred his complaint to our service, YBS said that the loss of interest Mr T 
incurred from when the money for the cheque was withdrawn from his account and it being 
credited back into the account totalled £1.55. YBS said that it would be happy to pay Mr T 
the interest that he lost out on.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and concluded that YBS had explained 
from the outset that it cannot endorse cheques and that the offers made by YBS to resolve 
the complaint was fair.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators assessment. In summary, because hed asked YBS to 
endorse a cheque in 2021, and YBS had been able to do that with no issues, Mr T couldnt 
understand why YBS was not able to do the same in October 2022.
Mr T was eventually able to provide evidence from his broker that it had received an 
endorsed YBS cheque from Mr T in November 2021.
After sharing this new evidence with YBS, YBS offered to pay Mr T a total of £750 to resolve 
the complaint. Mr T initially accepted the offer, but then disagreed with the offer as he 
thought that the £750 compensation was in addition to the amounts already paid to him, 
when the total amount actually included the redress that had already been paid to Mr T. 
As Mr T didnt accept the offer, the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that YBS had made an error in saying it could not endorse a cheque, even though 
it had been able to do so for Mr T in 2021. And once Mr T was able to provide evidence that 
a prior cheque had been endorsed by YBS, neither party dispute this now. 
YBS has said that it does not have a specific policy or rule concerning the endorsing of 
cheques. I think the fact there is no specific policy or rule concerning the endorsement of 
cheques perhaps explains why the members of staff didnt think or didnt know it was 
possible to do, when Mr T asked for an endorsed cheque in October 2022. 
Nevertheless, following our investigation, YBS has acknowledged that its branch staff 
couldve endorsed the cheque, or alternatively provided confirmation in writing, on YBS letter 
head paper, stating that the cheque was drawn on Mr Ts account. YBS acknowledged it 
couldve dealt with Mr Ts request better.
As YBS now acknowledge that it was at fault for refusing to endorse Mr Ts cheque, all that 
is left for me to consider is whether the offer that YBS has made to resolve matters is 
reasonable, given the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see that this matter has caused Mr T a great deal of frustration. And until he was able 
to obtain evidence from his broker, he was unable to demonstrate what he was saying was 
correct, which again clearly added further frustration. Indeed, the evidence provided by YBS 
only showed that a cheque had been issued before, but it didnt show that the cheque had 
been endorsed. 
I can see that Mr T attended branch a number of times to (unsuccessfully) obtain an 
endorsed cheque. I also appreciate that Mr T attempted to send an unendorsed cheque to 
his broker in the hope that it wouldnt be an issue, but the broker refused to action Mr Ts 
investment instructions  which in turn led to Mr T being delayed in buying shares. Mr T also 
spent a fair amount of time on the phone discussing this matter too.
Following our investigation, YBS has since agreed to pay Mr T a total of £750. This is 
comprised of:
£160.04 in redress that has already been paid to Mr T (which is comprised of £140 
for distress and inconvenience, £5.04 towards fuel costs due to branch visits and £15 
telephone costs); 
£95.85 to reflect the difference in share price from when the broker couldve 
submitted investment instructions (had the cheque been endorsed) and when the 
broker was eventually able to purchase the shares for Mr T; and
£1.55 to reflect the credit interest Mr T lost out on the funds for the cheque between 
when the money for the cheque was taken from his account until the cheque was 
returned unpaid to his account; and
£492.56 of additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr T.
This therefore leaves £589.96 left to pay Mr T, to bring the total amount of redress paid to 
Mr T to £750.
Having reviewed everything, I think that what YBS has offered is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because I think YBSs offer fairly reflects the various costs incurred 
by Mr T including fuel costs, telephone costs, loss of interest and the amounts hed missed 
out on from not being able to invest when he wanted to. Mr T has said that he wants more redress than what YBS has offered i.e. £750 in addition to 
what has already been paid to him. But when considering everything that has happened, I 
think that the total amount of the redress that reflects the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr T - which once it is all paid would total £632.56 - fairly reflects the impact this matter 
has had on Mr T. 
I say that taking into account the extent of inconvenience caused to Mr T, such as the 
branch visits and telephone calls that I mentioned above. I also recognise that there was 
likely a level of urgency in Mr T wanting to make the payment to avoid losing out in case 
share prices changed quickly before the investment could be made. And as Mr T was 
prevented from doing this, it was clearly very frustrating for him, especially as Mr T knew that 
YBS was able to endorse a cheque, despite him being repeatedly told it couldnt. 
So, when taking everything into account, I think that YBSs offer to pay a further £589.96 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put matters right, YBS should pay Mr T a total of £589.96, to bring the total amount of 
redress paid to Mr T to £750.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Yorkshire Building 
Society to pay Mr T the above redress, to put matters right in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman