DRN-1954159
The complaint
Mr C complains about the RPI rates Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited applied to his 
income protection benefit. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so Ive only included a brief 
summary of what happened below.
Mr C is in receipt of income protection through his employers policy. His benefit is 
escalated each year in line with the retail price index (RPI). But Mr C complains that 
Aviva hasnt used (or explained why it hasnt used) the same month each year to obtain 
the RPI rate and calculate his benefit. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint, Aviva said it had to use the most recent RPI rate 
available to it at the time, and said the policy terms didnt stipulate which monthly rate 
that would be. Aviva said it had explained this to Mr C on a number of different 
occasions, and it set out the rates that had been available to it when it had calculated 
Mr Cs benefit.  
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He reiterated his 
concerns about Avivas explanation and said it had previously told him it would use a 
particular months rate. He also said changes to his benefit were not always 
communicated with him in a timely manner. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened but said the policy didnt set out which 
months RPI rate had to be used, and Aviva had previously explained that it applied the 
most recent rate available to it. Our investigator also said that while she understood 
Mr Cs frustration, Aviva only had a responsibility to communicate with its policy holder 
(Mr Cs employer), and not Mr C. And she said that she couldnt hold Aviva responsible 
for any delays in the policy holder passing information on to Mr C because of that.
Mr C disagreed. In summary he said Aviva had told him it would use a particular months 
RPI rate; the policy set out that benefits would increase at the end of each whole year, 
which for Mr C was August; and, if Aviva wanted to use different months for the RPI 
rates it should have set that out in the policy. 
So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C feels very strongly about whats happened and I thank him for taking the time to set out 
his concerns. But I will only focus on matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint, and may not address every point hes made. Having considered all the available 
evidence and arguments I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons:
The policy sets out that the benefit it pays will escalate once paid for a whole year 
and at the end of each subsequent year. However, it doesnt set out what monthly 
RPI rate will be applied to those escalations. I realise Mr C thinks it should specify 
this information, but the policys terms were accepted by the policy holder (Mr Cs 
employer), and Aviva isnt required to use a particular months rate. 
Aviva has said that it uses the most recent RPI rate available to it, and it has 
explained this to Mr C on a number of occasions. Aviva has also explained that it isnt 
able to use live Office of National Statistics (ONS) rates  because of the way its 
payment system works  and it has told Mr C what rates were available to it when it 
calculated his benefit. Based on the available evidence, I think the attempts Aviva 
made to explain its position were reasonable. I do, however, appreciate that Mr C 
remains unhappy with them.
I can see that at one point Aviva did tell Mr C that his understanding of the RPI rate 
was correct. I appreciate why Mr C continues to be frustrated by this. But having 
considered this complaint in the round and within the context of the policy, I cant 
fairly conclude that Aviva acted outside the applicable terms and conditions.
I recognise that Mr C is unhappy about delays in receiving some communication, and 
appreciate what hes said about the impact such delays can have on his health. But 
Aviva has a responsibility to communicate with its policy holder. And here, that is 
Mr Cs employer. It would be unfair of me to hold Aviva responsible for delays in the 
policy holder passing information on to Mr C.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Cs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman