DRN-2484473
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
This is the summary that I included with the provisional decision that I issued on this 
complaint to Mr W and to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services on 7 December 2020:
Our investigator has described the background to Mr Ws complaint in more detail 
but there follows a summary of what I understand to have happened. A used car was 
supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services that he electronically signed in May 2018. There were some issues with the 
car when it was supplied to Mr W so he complained to the dealer and expected it to 
arrange for the car to be repaired. That didnt happen so Mr W contacted the dealer 
again in December 2018. The car was repaired in April 2019 by a manufacturers 
dealer. But not all of the issues had been remedied so Mr W complained to 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services.
The car was repaired again in May 2019 but Mr W says that there continue to be 
issues with the car and that he wanted to reject it before the repairs were completed. 
He wasnt satisfied with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services response to his 
complaint so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She 
agreed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W but 
repairs had been carried out and she was persuaded that they had rectified the 
issues. She acknowledged that Mr W had been inconvenienced by the faulty goods 
and she thought that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services should: pay him £150 
compensation, reimburse one months instalment for the period that he was without a 
car and ensure it covers the cost of the puncture repair that he paid for.
Mr W asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He said, in summary, 
that:
from May 2018 until April 2019 there has been a failure to take responsibility to fix the 
faults on the car and hes not been treated fairly or reasonably;
there was a failed attempt to repair the car in April 2019 so he should be able to
reject the car; and
hes been without the car since April 2019 so the compensation recommended by the 
investigator is inadequate.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued my provisional decision in which I said as 
follows:
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. Whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car 
that was supplied to Mr W was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for 
him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there were issues with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr W and he says that he complained to the dealer and expected it to 
arrange for the issues to be repaired. That didnt happen so Mr W contacted the 
dealer again in December 2018 but there was a further delay in any repairs being 
undertaken. The car then failed in April 2019 so was taken to a manufacturers dealer 
where it was repaired. The job card shows that the car had been driven for 2,633 
miles and that an issue with the engine management warning light had been 
repaired. But not all of the issues with the car about which Mr W had complained had 
been remedied so he complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services later that 
month. I understand that the dealer had contacted it about the issues that Mr W had 
with the car in February 2019 so it was aware of those issues at that time.
The car was repaired again in May 2019 and the job card describes the work that 
was undertaken. Mr W says that there continue to be issues with the car but hes not 
provided any further evidence to show that there continue to be faults with the car 
despite being asked to provide such evidence  and Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that the car continues to be faulty.
Mr W says he asked to reject the car before the May 2019 repairs had been 
completed. But its clear that he agreed for that work to take place and Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that he told Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services that he wanted to reject the car before those works were started  
so I consider it to be more likely than not that he accepted that the car would be 
repaired again. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to allow him to reject the car.
I consider it to be clear that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr W and that he would have had the right to reject it at the time because of the 
issues with it, but he didnt tell Mercedes-Benz Financial Services that he wanted to 
reject the car within 30 days of it being supplied to him. The car has now been 
repaired and I consider that the repairs are an acceptable remedy for the issues that 
Mr W had with the car.
I understand that Mr W was provided with a hire car when his car was being repaired 
in April 2019 but that he was then without a car for about a month. He also says that 
the hire car was dirty and that he had to have it cleaned and to pay for a puncture to 
be repaired (which he says the dealer agreed to reimburse him for  but that he 
hasnt received any payment for it). Our investigator recommended that Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services should reimburse him for the cost of the puncture repair  
and I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. She also 
recommended that it should refund one monthly payment under the agreement to 
Mr W as compensation for the time that he was without the car. I also consider that to 
be fair and reasonable.Mr W says that hes been without the car since April 2019 but the job cards show that 
it was repaired in April and May 2019 and he hasnt provided the evidence thats 
been requested to show that there were issues with the car when it was returned to 
him after the May 2019 repairs.
This was a new car and its clear that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr W. The issues with it will have caused him loss of use and enjoyment 
of the car and the April 2019 job card shows that hes only driven 2,633 miles in the 
car in about a year (and the annual mileage limit under the agreement was 7,000). I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services to refund to Mr W 20% of the monthly payments that he 
made under the agreement between May 2018, when the car was supplied to him, 
and May 2019, when it was repaired, as compensation for his loss of use and 
enjoyment.
These events have clearly caused considerable distress and inconvenience for Mr W 
 and I consider that it would be fair and reasonable to expect Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services to have done more to help Mr W with the issues with the car after 
it became aware of those issues in February 2019. Our investigator recommended 
that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services should also pay him £150 compensation but I 
consider that the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused by these events 
justifies more compensation than that. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to pay him £300 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
So subject to any further representations by Mr W or Mercedes-Benz Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Mr W has responded to my provisional decision in detail and says, in summary, that:
he notified the dealer about some of the issues with the car at the time of collection 
and within a week informed it of some mechanical issues and the dealer followed up 
in February 2019 because nobody had contacted him about the repairs;
hes been without the car since it was taken to the manufacturers dealer after it had 
broken down in April 2019 and hes had to replace the car  he says that he didnt 
speak with the manufacturers dealer but wrote an email to Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services advising it that he wanted to reject the car and at no point from the car 
being towed to the manufacturers dealer did he ask for the repairs to be completed;
when he was told by the manufacturers dealer in June 2019 that it wanted to deliver 
the car back to him he said that hed asked to reject the car but was told that hed be 
charged for storage if he didnt take the car back  but the bumper repair hadnt been 
completed and the issue was still there with the Bluetooth so he didnt take the car 
back;
he was contacted by the manufacturers dealer in December 2020 and wants 
confirmation whether any communication took place between this service and the 
manufacturers dealer at that time;
he went to the manufacturers dealer and inspected the car but the bumper repair 
hadnt been completed and the issue was still there with the Bluetooth  and hes 
provided photos to show this;
the only fair conclusion is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services accepts his 
rejection of the car and unwinds the agreement, refunds his deposit, monthly 
instalments, and the cost of the puncture repair and pays him fair compensation that reflects the fact that hes been without the car for 20 months whilst maintaining the 
monthly payments and insuring the car; and
this situation has been a stressful one since collection of the car in 2018, during 
which time it has spiralled and has put him under immense pressure.
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services says that it agrees to refund 20% of rentals from May 
2018 to May 2019, 1 monthly rental and the tyre puncture (but it asks that Mr W provide an 
invoice for the replacement tyre) but doesnt agree with the additional £300 compensation. It 
says that that seems disproportionate and its already compensating for loss of enjoyment 
and the time without the car (although Mr W was provided with alternative transport for this 
period) and to pay him £300 would mean that it was compensating him twice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having carefully considered the additional evidence that Mr W has 
provided, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Im unaware of 
any communication between this service and the manufacturers dealer in December 2020 
about Mr Ws complaint  but my provisional decision was sent to Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services at the same time as it was sent to Mr W and it may have contacted the 
manufacturers dealer.
A new car was supplied to Mr W in May 2018. There were clearly some issues with the car 
which Mr W raised with the dealer but no repairs were made. That was a failing by the 
dealer, and then Mercedes-Benz Financial Services, but I consider that it would be 
reasonable to have expected Mr W to also have done more about it if he wanted the repairs 
to be made.
The car broke down in April 2019, nearly a year after it had been supplied to Mr W, and was 
recovered to a manufacturers dealer. Mr W was provided with a rental car, which was then 
replaced with a courtesy car. The issue that had caused the break-down was repaired but 
the pre-existing issues werent repaired. Mr W contacted Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
and said that he wanted to reject the car  but I dont consider that he had any right to reject 
the car at that time. The manufacturers dealer then made further repairs to the car to 
remedy the pre-existing issues about which Mr W had previously complained - but the 
repairs werent completed to his satisfaction so he refused to accept the return of the car and 
its been with the manufacturers dealer since then.
The manufacturers dealer has provided job cards to show the work that was undertaken on 
the car in April and May 2019. Mr W says that the bumper repair hasnt been properly 
completed and that theres still an issue with the Bluetooth - and hes provided photos which 
he says show those issues. Ive looked at those photos and Im not persuaded that theyre 
enough to show that the repairs havent been made and theres no other evidence to support 
what he says and no evidence from a mechanic or qualified specialist to show that there 
continue to be issues with the car. 
Mr W says that hes replaced the car but I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him 
to have collected the car after it had been repaired and then to deal with the manufacturers 
dealer or Mercedes-Benz Financial Services about the further repairs that he considered to 
be required. It was his choice not to do so and it was his choice to leave the car with the 
manufacturers dealer. I sympathise with Mr W for the issues that hes had with the car and 
the difficulties that hes experienced, but Im not persuaded that he had any right in these circumstances to reject the car and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to allow him to do so.
Putting things right
I consider that the outcome that I set out in my provisional decision remains fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services has agreed to refund 
to Mr W 20% of the monthly payments that he made under the agreement between May 
2018 and May 2019 as compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car and one 
monthly payment under the agreement as compensation for the time that he was without the 
car. Its also agreed to reimburse him for the cost of the puncture on the hire car but has 
asked him to provide evidence of that payment. 
These events will have also caused Mr W distress and inconvenience and, in addition to the 
payments referred to above, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services to also pay him £300 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. I dont consider that to be compensating him twice.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr W 20% of the monthly payments that he made under the agreement 
between May 2018 and May 2019 as compensation for his loss of use and 
enjoyment of the car.
2. Refund to Mr W one monthly payment under the agreement as compensation for the 
time that he was without the car.
3. Reimburse Mr W for the cost of the puncture on the hire car.
4. Pay £300 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman