DRN-2043486
The complaint
Mr A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL)
failed to attend an appointment he had arranged with it under his home emergency 
insurance contract; and
offered an amount of compensation for its failure which he thinks is inadequate.
What happened
Mr A entered into a home emergency insurance policy with BGIL to run from 8 October 
2019. He arranged for BGIL to carry out its initial service visit on 10 October 2019. 
BGIL failed to attend as arranged. When Mr A complained to BGIL, it apologised. It said that 
a systems error meant the agreed appointment hadnt been properly carried into its systems. 
A visit was arranged for 12 October 2019, which was properly completed.
BGIL offered Mr A compensation of £20 for its failure to attend the initial appointment. Mr A 
didnt accept this, but BGIL wouldnt increase its offer. So Mr A complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr A had said that 
he had to make a similar complaint against BGIL a few years previously. On that occasion 
BGIL had offered him compensation of £100, which he thought was a more appropriate level 
of compensation. 
The investigator said there were a number of errors in the previous case, including recording 
the address incorrectly, which resulted in multiple missed appointments. He said we looked 
at each individual complaint on its own merits.
He noted that Mr A had to take an extra day of his holiday entitlement for the changed 
appointment. However, it seemed the reason for the missed appointment was an unfortunate 
system error, which regrettably sometimes occurred. BGIL acted quickly when Mr A made it 
aware of what had happened. The appointment was rebooked and completed within 48 
hours. He thought BGILs apology and offer of £20 compensation was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr A had said he also wanted increased compensation to make more of an impact on BGIL, 
so as to ensure something similar didnt happen in the future. However, it wasnt our 
approach to punish a business, but only to provide compensation for a consumer that we 
thought to be fair in the circumstances.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator said, it isnt our role to fine or punish a business  that is for its regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to consider where it thinks it appropriate. But we will 
consider what, if any, payment is appropriate for a business to provide to compensate a 
consumer for what has occurred.
We consider each individual complaint on its own merits. So I dont take account of Mr As 
previous complaint against BGIL several years earlier, and the compensation BGIL chose to 
award him then.
BGILs failure in this case was down to an unfortunate systems error. When he brought it to 
BGILs attention, it apologised and acted quickly to carry out the missed appointment. I note 
Mr A had to use a further day of his holiday entitlement. But all in all I think BGILs offer of 
£20 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against British Gas 
Insurance Limited. I simply leave it to Mr A to take up BGILs earlier offer if he wishes to do 
so, and if its still available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman