DRN-3299681
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt agree to authorise a transaction, prior 
to the transaction being processed. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to purchase a luxury watch at a discounted price. Mr M contacted Lloyds in 
May 2021 to tell it he wanted to make a £14,000 payment and asked it to make a note that 
he was authorising this payment in advance. 
Lloyds said it could make a note but it was possible the payment could still be flagged by its 
automated fraud checks. It said Mr M may receive a text asking him to confirm that the 
payment was genuine, to which he could respond yes or no, or he would need to call to 
confirm the payment. 
Ultimately, Mr M chose not to attempt to make the payment. Mr M explained that he couldnt 
text and was unhappy Lloyds processes were so inflexible. He said Lloyds werent listening 
to the needs of its customers, so he raised a complaint. 
Lloyds reiterated that whilst Mr M may have notified it of his intentions, this wouldnt have 
necessarily stopped a payment from being flagged by its systems. However, Lloyds agreed 
that the service during phone calls with Mr M could have been better and at times he was 
provided with incorrect information. Lloyds offered to pay Mr M £200 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused for the incorrect information provided. 
Mr M remained unhappy, as he believed that the process in place wasnt customer focused 
and had meant hed lost out on the transaction. And he wanted Lloyds to contact the watch 
supplier directly to help him source the same watch at the same price, as the one he 
intended to purchase was no longer available through the jeweller. He feels hes lost out 
financially as he could have sold the watch for profit. So, he referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator considered the offer of compensation Lloyds had given for the incorrect 
information and service was fair. She didnt agree that Mr M had lost out financially as the 
payment wasnt attempted. She also didnt think Lloyds security processes were unfair to 
Mr M. As Mr M has disagreed the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable Mr M was frustrated that Lloyds wasnt able to guarantee that the 
payment he intended to make wouldnt be flagged by its fraud systems. However, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds wasnt able to do what Mr M had asked. Its fraud checks happen in the 
moment according to an automated risk assessment process. Its not possible for them to be 
bypassed or for transactions to be excluded in advance.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr M said he felt belittled and embarrassed by his phone call on 
19 May 2021. In the call he was told he could text to confirm the payment. But Mr M 
explained that he couldnt text, didnt have a smart phone and, he told our investigator, he 
was upset as he felt that no other workarounds were offered. 
Having listened to the call, Ive noted that Lloyds did mention that Mr M could call to confirm 
the payment was genuine instead of texting. He was able to receive texts, though said he 
didnt know how to send them, so he would know when he needed to call and what number 
to call. And Mr M also asked if writing a cheque could be an alternative payment method, 
and Lloyds also confirmed this was an option if he wished. 
Im therefore satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly here. It couldnt do what he wanted in 
pre-authorising a debit card transaction. But it explained that if he couldnt reply to a text 
notification, he could call instead. And he could avoid the possibility of fraud checks by 
paying by cheque instead. So, I think Lloyds did notify Mr M of other options available to him 
when he explained he couldnt text. Ive noted how Mr M said the call made him feel, but I 
dont think there was anything wrong in the way Lloyds staff member handled it.
That being said, I think Lloyds accepts that it could have done things better. For example, it 
accepts that during a later call, when he complained about this issue, Mr M was misinformed 
that hed receive a call from the fraud team if he didnt respond to the text  which is not the 
case. It also accepts that during the investigations it incorrectly asserted that hed made the 
payment, despite him not having done so. 
In any event, Im aware that during his call with Lloyds on 20 May 2021, Mr M said hed 
made other arrangements to deal with the jeweller. Though hes told us that wasnt the case 
 he didnt try to make the purchase, and feels hes lost out as a result. 
I dont think Mr M has been caused a financial loss as a result of whats happened though. 
Mr M didnt attempt the payment  had he done so, it may have been authorised without 
being flagged. And he didnt try any of the alternatives suggested either. I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to say that there was a risk that the transaction might be flagged by its 
fraud systems, that it couldnt guarantee it wouldnt be, and to suggest alternatives Mr M 
could use if he didnt want to risk that. It was then Mr Ms choice not to try any of those 
things  and therefore not to buy the watch. 
Overall, I dont think Lloyds have treated Mr M unfairly. I accept, as Lloyds have, that they 
couldve handled Mr Ms enquiries better and provided a better overall level of service. But 
Im satisfied that £200 compensation theyve offered is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC have already done 
enough to resolve this complaint by offering to pay Mr M £200 compensation. So I require it 
to pay this sum to Mr M if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman