DRN-4288490
The complaint
Mr B says Lockton Companies LLP mis-sold him a medical malpractice insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2013 Locktons gave a presentation on a medical malpractice policy to Mr B and 
others. Subsequently Mr B completed a proposal form which Locktons used as the basis for 
assessing his requirements. It obtained a policy quotation which Mr B accepted and the 
policy renewed in subsequent years. 
In November 2019 Mr B told Locktons he was planning to retire at the end of that year. It 
contacted his insurer about placing the policy into run off. The insurer said a premium of 
around £21,700 would be required as a claim had been made on the policy. Mr B didnt 
agree to that. Subsequently a claim was made against him. Mr B complained Locktons 
hadnt explained he didnt have run off cover in place. He thought his policy included an 
extended reporting period and the quote Locktons provided was for something else. 
A separate complaint about that was considered by another Ombudsman. She thought 
Locktons had made it clear an additional premium was required for run off cover to be in 
place. Mr B then said the policy had been mis-sold because Locktons had told him run off 
cover was included and there was no reference to further payment being required for this. 
He also said he wasnt told his policy excess or other policy terms could change. 
Our investigator was satisfied this was an advised sale. And she thought cover had been 
provided based on Mr Bs demands and needs as set out in a proposal form he provided. 
She didnt think the terms as they related to run off cover made the policy unsuitable for him 
or were something that should have been drawn to his attention during the sales process. 
Even if they had been she wasnt persuaded that would have led Mr B to act any differently. 
And the change to the excess was because the insurer subsequently became aware of 
Mr Bs previous claims history which hadnt previously been disclosed to it. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he was told the policy would provide run off cover on retirement, 
there was no reference to further payments and the policy itself said run off cover included. 
He said we should speak to others at the sales presentation who he believed would support 
his recollections. He said previous claims hadnt been disclosed because Locktons told him 
he only needed to reference ones in the past year. And he disputed hed have taken this 
policy out if properly informed. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I can see in response to our investigators view Mr B raised issues which relate to the 
decision on his previous complaint (for example a document which he believes shows he 
had run off cover). However, a final decision from an Ombudsman brings our complaint 
handling process to a close and theres nothing I can add to what weve already said about 
these matters. 
In addition, Mr B says his claim was initially accepted and he paid the relevant excess. He 
believes that means a legally binding contract was entered into. But it was the insurer of his 
policy (not Locktons) that would be responsible for the handling of his claim. So any 
concerns he has about that would need to be pursued against it. 
What Im considering here is Mr Bs complaint about what happened when this policy was 
sold to him by Locktons in 2013. It appears to be accepted this was an advised sale. And the 
relevant rules say Locktons was required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of 
its advice. To do so the rules require it to establish a customers demands and needs using 
information readily available and by obtaining further relevant information from a customer.
Ive thought about whether it did that. I can see Locktons did obtain information from Mr B in 
the proposal form prior to obtaining a policy quotation. In that form Mr B said he required a 
policy that covered him for medical malpractice for the work he carried out which this policy 
did. I dont think he was significantly affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover and 
theres no suggestion it was unaffordable for him. 
Mr Bs concerns are focussed on the issue of run off cover but I dont think that made the 
policy unsuitable for him either. The policy says it includes an extended reporting period if 
the insured dies or permanently ceases to practice. It then says:  
Within 30 days of receipt of such notification INSURERS shall, at their option, have the right
to amend the terms of this extension, or to charge such additional premium as they deem
appropriate, in the event of any CLAIM(s) having been first made and notified or 
circumstances notified to INSURERS during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE, or in the event
of any new material facts being declared to INSURERS. The INSURED shall then have a
further 30 days, from date of notification by INSURERS, to accept such amended terms or
additional premium
So the policy did include run off cover. The issue is that in some circumstances the insurer 
was entitled to charge an additional premium. That includes where there had been a claim 
on the policy during the period of insurance (as that could impact the ongoing risk). But I 
dont see that made the policy unsuitable for Mr B, particularly as on his proposal form he 
confirmed he had no imminent retirement plans. 
However, as well as recommending a suitable policy Locktons was also required to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information about it to Mr B. That included drawing his 
attention to the significant exclusions and limitation of the policy. Taking into account the 
relevant rules I think a significant exclusion or limitation would be one that would affect the 
decision of customers generally to buy. 
Mr B says Locktons told him that run offer cover was included and didnt say the insurer 
might charge an additional premium for this. I understand this was at the presentation he 
attended. Mr B has suggested we speak to other attendees who would confirm that but I 
dont think thats something I need to do. Thats because even if Mr B is correct in his 
recollection I dont think Locktons did anything wrong. 
I understand this was a general presentation about the policy to him and other members of 
his profession. Ive already found the policy did include run off cover so I dont think Locktons 
would have done anything wrong in referencing that. And I dont think the fact that, in some 
circumstances, the policy gave the insurer the discretion to charge an additional premium for 
run off cover is a significant or unusual feature of the policy. I dont think its of such 
importance that it would affect the decision of a customer generally to buy. And it follows that I dont think this is something Locktons should have drawn to Mr Bs attention either at the 
presentation or subsequently. 
Mr B is also unhappy the excess on his policy was subsequently changed (when the insurer 
found out more information about his claims history). Hes suggested he wouldnt have taken 
out the policy if hed been told the insurer was entitled to change that (and other policy 
terms). But his insurance policy is an annual contract and the insurer would always have 
been entitled to decide at renewal whether to offer cover, on what terms and what it would 
charge for it based on factors such as the risk it was taking on. Thats standard for policies 
like this (and indeed for insurance policies more generally) and isnt something Id have 
expected Locktons to draw to Mr Bs attention. 
Finally, Mr B says if hed been given more information about the policy he wouldnt have 
taken it out. I understand his position but Im also mindful that hes making those comments 
with the benefit of hindsight. And given Ive concluded the policy was suitable for him Im not 
persuaded more information on the limited circumstances in which an insurer might charge 
an additional premium for run off cover would have made a difference to his decision 
making. At the point of sale he had no retirement plans and no additional premium would 
have been chargeable because no claim had been made on this policy. And Mr B wouldnt 
have known that would happen in future. But as I havent found Locktons did anything wrong 
when selling the policy this isnt material to the outcome of the complaint in any event. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman