DRN-3785335
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd turned down her 
claims under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2021 Mrs Fs dog became ill at night and she took her to an emergency vet. Casualty 
& General would not pay the emergency vet charge as it said its policy covered emergency 
care only for life threatening conditions. It said Mrs Fs dog had been treated for an abscess 
and the condition was not life threatening. 
In March 2022 Mrs Fs dog began to tire quickly during walks. Her vet referred the dog to a 
specialist vet, who diagnosed bilateral laryngeal paralysis, which is a condition affecting the 
throat. Mrs F made two claims to Casualty & General for the vets fees of £754.61 and 
£3,229.79 respectively. 
Casualty & General turned down Mrs Fs claims for her dogs laryngeal paralysis. It had seen 
that Mrs Fs vet had advised that her dogs weight should be reduced, and said its policy 
excluded claims resulting from a pet being overweight. Mrs F complained, saying that there 
were no agreed weight charts for her cross-breed dog and that the condition was not related 
to her dogs weight. She said that she had paid the vets fees herself. 
Mrs F asked us to look into her complaint. Our Investigator thought Casualty & Generals 
decision about the abscess claim was fair. But she recommended that it pay (with interest) 
Mrs Fs claims for laryngeal paralysis because Casualty & General had not shown the claims 
had resulted from the dog being overweight, as required for the exclusion to apply.
Mrs F accepted our Investigators findings but Casualty & General did not. It referred to 
entries in the vets clinical notes about the dogs weight and advice to reduce her weight. It 
also sent links to online veterinary articles, which it said indicated that overweight dogs were 
more at risk of developing laryngeal paralysis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F and Casualty & General have both accepted our Investigators conclusions on the first 
claim for the abscess. As such, I dont need to decide this part of the complaint.
I will focus on the claims for the dogs laryngeal paralysis. I dont think Casualty & General 
made a fair decision to decline these claims and so I uphold this complaint. I will explain 
why. 
Casualty & General rejected the claims because its policy exclusion says it wont pay:
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet;
The burden is on Casualty & General to show that it can properly apply the exclusion to turn 
down Mrs Fs claims. I dont consider it has shown that the exclusion applies.
I have read Casualty & Generals comments about the dogs body condition score (BCS) 
and weight. In particular, it refers to the following entries:
12.04.2017 Weight 7.7kgHas gained 1.5kg in 2 years! now BCS 6-7/9. 
Discussed weight loss
15.10.2019 BCS 8/9 advised to bring in for 2 weekly weight checkideal weight 
upper end about 8kg so aim to loose 1kg
26.10.2021 Weight 8.8kg
09.11.2021 8.3kgAdv need to lose weight
21.12.2021 Weight 8.5kg
22.03.2022  Weight 8.6kg
31.03.2022 Weight 8.4kg
Ive reviewed the clinical notes. I accept the vet had given Mrs F the above advice about 
reducing her dogs weight. But I do not consider the evidence about the dogs weight and 
weight related advice is enough for Casualty & General to decline the claims. It must show 
that the claims resulted from the dog being medically overweight and that the dog needed 
treatment as a result of her being overweight. 
Importantly neither Mrs Fs usual vet nor the specialist vet to which her dog was referred 
have suggested that the laryngeal paralysis resulted from her dog being medically 
overweight or that her dog needed treatment for this condition as a result of being 
overweight. 
The specialist vet commented in his report of 30 March 2022 that the dog weighed 8.8kg and 
was in obese body condition. But there is nothing in his report that indicates the dog 
developed the condition as a result of her weight. The vet observed the diagnosed condition 
of bilateral laryngeal paralysis was a condition commonly seen in older, and larger-breed, 
dogs. (Mrs Fs dog was then 8 years old). 
He went on to say that the condition was thought to be due to a peripheral neuropathy or 
specific damage to the nerve supply of the larynx. This leads to an inability to fully open the 
laryngeal cartilage; leading to noisy breathing, exercise intolerance and sometimes a dry, 
non-productive cough  
Following the initial rejection of the claim, the specialist vet asked Casualty & General to 
review its position. He noted that Mrs Fs claim had been rejected because of [the dogs] 
body condition. Laryngeal paralysis is typically caused by a peripheral neuropathy, and not 
due to body condition.
I find the evidence of Mrs Fs specialist vet to be persuasive, not least as he saw and treated 
her dog. 
I have read and considered the articles to which Casualty & General has referred. The 
articles say, in summary, that overweight dogs are at a higher risk of developing Mrs Fs 
laryngeal paralysis than dogs at a healthy weight.
But a risk factor is not, of itself, enough for Casualty & General to rely on the policy 
exclusion. It must show that the condition and the dogs treatment resulted from the dog 
being overweight. I do not consider it has shown this. It follows that Casualty & General did not fairly turn down the claims for Mrs Fs dogs laryngeal paralysis. It should now pay the 
claims as set out below. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mrs Fs acceptance of this final decision, 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Fs claims for her dogs laryngeal paralysis in line with the policy limit and 
less any applicable policy excess and co-payment; and 
Pay interest on the resulting claims payments at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mrs F paid the vets fees until the date of settlement. 
If Casualty & General considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest payment, it should let Mrs F know how much its taken off. If requested, 
it should also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman