DRN-2961452
The complaint
Ms G complains that TSB Bank Plc hasnt treated her fairly in respect of her mortgage. She 
complains:
The mortgage was mis-sold.
She should have been sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
TSB shouldnt have switched her mortgage to a new fixed rate as it knew she was 
vulnerable.
TSB failed to recognise that she had complex needs.
TSB didnt review her ex-partners finances.
The mortgage should have been transferred into her own name and switched to interest 
only.
TSB should have reduced her monthly payments.
TSB wouldnt let her review the mortgage without her ex-partners consent.
She wasnt told that there was a £7.94 shortfall on her monthly mortgage payment.   
What happened
In 2017 a third party mortgage broker recommended Ms G (with her now ex-partner) should 
take out a mortgage with TSB. She switched to a new interest rate product in 2018 and in 
February 2021  both on an execution only basis. The 2021 product was fixed rate until 28 
February 2023. An early repayment charge (ERC) applied if the mortgage was repaid during 
the fixed rate period.
Ms G later told TSB that she had been coerced by her ex-partner to take the fixed rate 
product in 2021 and to not take an insurance product.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She said:
The mortgage was initially sold by a third party and the product switches were non-
advised. But in respect of the most recent product switch, TSB ought to have told Ms G 
to take advice bearing in mind what it knew about her circumstances. And TSB gave Ms 
G misleading information.
There was no requirement to sell PPI alongside the mortgage.
The switch of mortgage products should not have gone ahead the way it did.
TSB failed to recognise that Ms G had complex needs.
The affordability of the mortgage was adequately checked at the outset and there was no 
requirement for TSB to carry out further checks when switching products.
It wouldnt be fair to transfer the mortgage to Ms Gs sole name or switch to interest only 
without her ex-partner agreeing to that as those actions would impact him negatively. 
And in any event, neither a temporary or permanent switch would be in Ms Gs interests.
TSB didnt act unreasonably in not reducing Ms Gs mortgage payments.
TSB ought to have reviewed the mortgage without Ms Gs ex partners consent.
Although TSB had more recently provided adequate support for Ms G there is more it 
should have done earlier  and that has caused Ms G some distress.
There was a credit balance on the mortgage. So even though slightly less was paid to 
the mortgage than there should have been, the mortgage didnt fall into arrears. She 
didnt consider that TSB wanted Ms G to default so it could repossess her home.
The investigator said that TSB should allow Ms G to remain on the interest rate product but 
waive any ERC. She also considered it should pay her £500 for any distress she suffered. 
Ms G responded to make a number of points, including:
She didnt think that £500 reflected the mental torture she had been through. 
The investigator hadnt addressed her complaint about the sale of the mortgage.
TSB failed to advise her on insurance products.
We should take into account the guidance from the Local Government Association on 
Home ownership for people with long-term disabilities (HOLD).
TSB didnt accept what the investigator said:
TSB told Ms G that it was not able to consider staying on a variable interest rate as it 
was not carrying out an advised sale and if she wanted that option she would need to 
complete a full review with an adviser. This was the right thing for Ms G.
TSB explained its porting policy to Ms G.
If Ms G and her ex-partner had not taken the new product their payments would have 
increased by £300 a month, which would not have been suitable.
TSB considered it had offered support to Ms G, including agreeing a payment deferral, 
referring Ms G to its tailored support team and dealing with her sensitively and patiently.
It hadnt made any mistake in the help and support it had offered Ms G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I was sorry to hear of the difficult time that Ms G has been through. One of the difficulties I 
have in this case is that the mortgage that is subject to this complaint is held by both Ms G 
and her ex-partner  while this complaint has only been brought by Ms G. So I wont be able 
to make any findings which might benefit or help Ms G but would be detrimental for her ex-
partner, such as switching the mortgage to interest only. And many changes would require 
both Ms G and her ex-partners agreement, including transferring the mortgage to her sole 
name.
Some of the points Ms G has raised touch directly or indirectly on her relationship and 
financial ties to her ex-partner. That isnt something I can get involved in. My power is limited 
to considering what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint, in respect of what TSB has or hasnt done. 
Mis-sale
The mortgage was originally sold by a third-party broker. So TSB isnt responsible for that. 
The new product in 2018 was execution only  and I cant see that TSB acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in allowing that switch to take place.
Like the investigator, I dont consider it was fair for TSB to allow the 2021 product switch to 
go ahead on an execution only basis. I say this because it knew that Ms G was considering 
selling her home. A fixed rate was being chosen that had an ERC. While the mortgage was 
portable, there was some risk that an ERC could be applied if the mortgage was repaid. 
TSB accepts that Ms G had told it that she had Aspergers, attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder, she had separated from her partner, that the property was on the market and she 
wasnt employed.
Further there was some confusion about the terms of the mortgage during the phone calls. 
Ms G and her ex-partner were unsure about what they wanted to do and the pros and cons 
of the products they were discussing. 
I accept that TSB did set out that it wasnt giving advice and that Ms G should arrange an 
appointment if she wanted advice. But I think it had sufficient information to consider that the 
mortgage might be inappropriate or not in Ms Gs best interests based on what it knew. I 
dont see how it was reasonable for TSB to allow Ms G to proceed on an execution only 
basis.
The FCAs high level principles required TSB to pay due regard to Ms Gs interests and to 
treat her fairly. And the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB) reminds lenders that this applies in all cases, including in relation to execution only 
sales.
TSB knew that Ms G planned to sell the property  and although the mortgage was portable, 
there may be some issues relating to the fact that Ms G had separated from the joint 
mortgage holder. I consider that these two points  in addition to what TSB ought reasonably 
to have known about Ms Gs vulnerability  should have meant that TSB insisted on Ms G 
receiving advice if it had paid due regard to her best interests and treated her fairly in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. While I accept Ms G saved money by taking the 
new rate, there were other relevant factors that needed to be weighed up against that.
I consider that if TSB had acted fairly and reasonably, Ms G would have received advice 
before taking the new product in 2021. Usually I would look to put Ms G in the position she 
would have been in had TSB acted fairly in the first place. That would look at what product (if 
any) TSB would likely have recommended had it carried out a full suitability assessment. But 
as I have said, there are two parties to this mortgage. I cant say that the interest rate 
product should be changed without Ms Gs ex-partners consent. 
Overall, I think the investigators proposal  to allow Ms G to remain on the same fixed rate, 
but waive the ERC if she sells her home  is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint point. Of course, if Ms G doesnt sell her home, there will be no ERC to waive. If 
she does repay the mortgage during the tie-in period, I consider it is fair for TSB to waive the 
ERC. That reflects that it is possible that Ms G might have been able to avoid an ERC if she 
had been given advice and that I am unable to say that the mortgage should be switched to 
a different interest rate product. I also consider it is fair in view of Ms Gs known vulnerability.PPI and life insurance  
There was no requirement for TSB to sell PPI alongside the product switch. I dont consider 
it acted unfairly by not doing so.
Complex needs
In Ms Gs communication with TSB she was displaying signs of vulnerability. She had 
explained that she had Aspergers and ADHD and she had separated from her partner. I 
think this along with the content of emails and phone calls ought to have alerted TSB that Ms 
G was potentially vulnerable  and taken steps to respond to Ms Gs individual needs.
I agree that in later interactions, TSB has done more to help Ms G. But I consider there is 
more it could have done at an earlier stage, bearing in mind what it knew about Ms Gs 
circumstances.
Checking Ms Gs ex-partners finances
I am satisfied that it was reasonable for TSB to approve the initial mortgage application and 
to consider it was affordable on the information presented to it. It wasnt required to carry out 
any affordability checks when Ms G switched products as no money was being raised.
Transfer to Ms Gs own name and interest only
Both removing Ms Gs ex-partner from the mortgage and switching the mortgage to interest 
only might potentially be detrimental to her ex-partner. He isnt part of this complaint. While I 
understand that Ms G has good reason for that, I dont consider that it would be fair for me to 
say that TSB should remove Ms Gs ex-partner from the mortgage or switch the mortgage to 
interest only. TSB has explained that Ms G can apply for both these options, if she wishes. 
Reduced payments 
Reducing the payments would impact Ms G  and her ex-partners  credit file. Ms G has 
said this is something she wanted to avoid. And it wouldnt be fair for to make that decision 
without her ex-partner agreeing to it.
Mortgage review 
TSB has an obligation to treat Ms G fairly. Good practice would require it to obtain details 
about Ms Gs income, expenditure and circumstances and consider whether there are any 
concessions available to assist her.
There were some difficulties here, as many of the concessions would need her ex-partners 
agreement. And, while Ms G and her ex-partner had their own arrangement about who 
would make the payments, the agreement they had with TSB meant that they were jointly 
and severally liable for the mortgage. So it couldnt get an accurate picture of the situation 
without both parties co-operation. It did, however, agree a payment holiday.
Nevertheless, I agree that in view of what TSB knew about Ms Gs circumstances, it would 
have been fair and reasonable for it carry out an income and expenditure exercise sooner 
than it did. And while the options available in a mortgage review were likely to have been 
limited without Ms Gs partners consent, there would be no detriment to him if one was 
carried out in Ms Gs sole name.
Tailored support teamIve already found that TSB ought to have done more to recognise Ms Gs vulnerability and 
provide appropriate support for her at an earlier stage than it did. But once Ms G was 
referred to TSBs tailored support team I think it provided adequate support for her.
Payments 
TSB didnt tell Ms G that the mortgage payment was £7.94 short. It should have done so. 
But TSB was correct to say that the mortgage wasnt in arrears. Thats because there was a 
credit balance on the mortgage that was higher than the amount of the shortfall. 
I agree that there might be certain things that Ms Gs ex-partner does in respect of the 
mortgage that TSB cant tell Ms G about. He has the right to confidentiality  as does Ms G. 
But I cant see any reason why TSB could not tell Ms G if there was a payment outstanding. 
Ms G and her ex-partner are jointly and severally liable for the mortgage. That means both of 
them are jointly and individually liable for the full mortgage payment. So if one of them didnt 
make their share of the payment they had agreed between themselves, TSB could pursue 
both parties. It follows, that to treat Ms G fairly, it ought reasonably to tell her what payments 
had been made to the mortgage  although I havent seen any evidence of TSB withholding 
this information from Ms G.
Overall I agree with the investigator that the evidence we have doesnt support that TSB 
wants Ms G to default so it can sell her home. 
Local Government Association on Home ownership for people with long-term disabilities 
(HOLD)
I note that Ms G has asked me to take into account the above guidance in my decision. Ive 
looked at the guidance and Im afraid I dont think it is relevant to this complaint. HOLD is a 
scheme that allows certain people with long-term disabilities to buy a property with the help 
of a housing association. It isnt clear if it would be possible for Ms G to buy her current 
home under this scheme. In any case, that isnt something I would expect TSB to be 
involved in, other than taking it into account in any assessment of Ms Gs circumstances, if 
necessary.  
 Putting things right
It wasnt fair for TSB to allow Ms G to switch products without receiving advice based on 
what it knew about her circumstances. I cant tell it to switch products as that would need Ms 
Gs ex-partners agreement. In the circumstances here, I think the fair outcome is for Ms G to 
remain on the fixed rate. But if the property is sold the ERC should be waived, to reflect that 
a product with a tie-in period may not have been recommended had she received advice.
Ive found that TSB hasnt always treated Ms G fairly. That is not to say that there were 
periods where TSB has acted sympathetically and fairly in view of Ms Gs needs. But, as set 
out above, it should have given Ms G advice and done more to recognise and provide 
support for her at an earlier stage than it did.
I accept that Ms G was going through a difficult time. And I can see that she had a lot of 
other things going on in her life that she has told us about. My award is only intended to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of acts or omissions by TSB. I 
agree that TSB hasnt always treated her fairly. I can see that Ms G is unhappy she is 
potentially stuck on a fixed rate that isnt right for her. She also will have been caused 
distress when TSB didnt take her needs into account or explain things in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  at least in earlier interactions with her.Looking at everything that happened, I consider that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate Ms G for any distress and inconvenience that TSB caused to her. I accept what 
Ms G has told us. But after careful consideration I think that £500 fairly reflects the impact of 
TSBs actions on her.
My final decision
 My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should:
Allow Ms G to remain on the fixed rate  but waive any ERC if she repays the mortgage 
during the tie-in period, so before 1 March 2023.
Pay Ms G £500 directly for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman