DRN-3419485
The complaint
R Ltd, represented by Mrs A, complained about problems accessing the companys account 
with ClearBank Ltd, which was administered by Tide. For ease of reading Ill refer to 
ClearBank as Tide in this decision, as thats what Mrs A will be familiar with.
R Ltd lost access to its online bank account, and said Tide hadnt resolved the situation, or 
given any explanation why it had happened. R Ltd had also had problems closing the 
account, and said it had also lost time, money, access to its software, and its mobile phone. 
R Ltd wanted the account to be closed with statements provided, and more compensation 
than Tide offered.
What happened
On 19 August 2021, Mrs A, for R Ltd, contacted Tide to say she couldnt access the 
companys account. Tide replied saying she should go through the account recovery 
process, and sent her instructions. This included uninstalling the app, reinstalling it, and 
various other steps including submitting a new photo of Mrs As identification, and a selfie.
Mrs A replied that it hadnt worked and that Tide was causing her huge problems. Tide 
asked at what stage the account recovery failed, and Mrs A said it was while trying to 
reinstall the app.
Further messages followed, with Tide asking for screenshots, and Mrs A asking why it had 
occurred, as shed seen from the website that it seemed to be a common problem.
There were more messages but no progress.  Messages included:
- Mrs A asked for an explanation of why it had occurred; how often it happened; 
whether it affected a large proportion of customers; what the resolution was; whether 
the resolution was a permanent fix; whether it would continually occur; said she 
needed Tide to be efficient and fit for purpose and asked was Tide efficient and fit for 
purpose. 
- Tide said the reason the problem happened was due to using another device, or 
reinstalling the app on the current device; and that the frequency depended on how 
many times the device was changed or the incorrect security code was typed. It said 
it couldnt provide information about other customers; and if Mrs A used the app on 
the same device it wouldnt happen often.
Mrs A said she hadnt used other devices and nor had she reinstalled the app, or entered 
codes incorrectly. Both sides agreed they were going round in circles. Tide asked which 
email Mrs A was using to download the app, and requested a video verification process. Mrs 
A was unhappy to have to have a video call to confirm an email address shed given Tide, 
saying that her issue was that shed been unable to get to the point to put the email in. There 
were further messages but no progress. A video call was arranged but Tide didnt attend.
In Tides final response to R Ltds complaint on 27 October, it said that it had asked for error 
codes and screenshots, and had needed to do the video verification because Mrs A had 
been contacting Tide from a different email address to the one on the account. Tide said it 
couldnt get an answer about why the problem happened. Tide said it had made some 
suggestions, such as the app being uninstalled or Mrs A using a different device, but Mrs A 
had said she hadnt done those things. But Tide said the steps it had asked Mrs A to carry 
out had been correct. And after Mrs A had uninstalled the app, as instructed, the problems 
with reinstalling it hadnt been Tides fault, but had been with the site from which Mrs A had 
downloaded the app.
Tide apologised for issues around joining instructions for the video call, and offered £25 
compensation for that.
R Ltd, represented by Mrs A, wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. R Ltd said that it 
wanted the account to be closed, compensation for loss of Mrs As time, loss of office 
systems software, and loss of company mobile. Mrs A also said she would like small 
businesses to be protected from companies who are able to hold them to ransom and could 
potentially destroy their businesses.
R Ltds account was closed, with the funds transferred to another account. Tide sent 
statements to this service, and the investigator forwarded them to Mrs A. 
Our investigator said he thought the steps Tide had asked Mrs A to take to restore access 
had been reasonable, but Tide had acknowledged that there had been a series of service 
issues which led to delays. As the account was now closed, it wasnt possible to identify 
what the problem had been. After this service had become involved, Tide had offered to 
increase the compensation offered from £25 to £100. The investigator that Tide hadnt done 
anything substantially wrong in the recommendations for sorting out access, and ultimately 
what it proposed hadnt been carried out. So he considered Tides offer of £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
R Ltd didnt agree.  Mrs A raised a number of points, including:
- Tide had had five months to investigate the problem, and neither her phone, 
passwords, internet provider, package had changed in that time;
- Tide had only closed the account when this service contacted it, five months after 
Mrs A had first asked to close the account;
- She didnt agree that Tide had done nothing wrong, when it had asked for a personal 
password, which it shouldnt have done. The investigator replied that he could see 
Tide had asked for the email address Mrs A had used to download the app  but it 
hadnt asked for her password;
- She explained that the software and mobile phone bills had been paid monthly 
through R Ltds account, and as a result her businesss services had been disrupted 
and prevented from operating;
- She had made herself available for appointments such as the video call but Tide 
hadnt turned up, and the only information she hadnt provided was about the account 
from which shed downloaded the app;
- Mrs A didnt think Tides offer of compensation was reasonable.
R Ltd asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that it can be very inconvenient and disruptive for a small business to lose 
access to its company bank account. So Ive looked carefully at what happened here. R Ltd 
has raised multiple points in its submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked into 
all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
First, Ive noted R Ltds request, in its complaint to us, that small businesses should be 
protected from companies who are able to hold them to ransom and could potentially destroy 
their businesses. What this service does is to consider individual complaints  and 
whatever the outcome of a complaint, it isnt our role to punish businesses. Thats the 
function of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
In R Ltds complaint, the message records show that the problem escalated quickly into 
frustration on both sides. Mrs A couldnt get the proposed resolution to work, and started 
asking how often the problem happened, whether a large proportion of customers were 
affected, and asked whether Tide was efficient and fit for purpose. The adviser gave 
instructions about uninstalling and reinstalling the app, and asked for screenshots and error 
messages. The adviser then said the problem had happened because R Ltd had used 
another device or the reinstallation. As Mrs A said she hadnt used another device or 
incorrect passwords, and still couldnt make it work, there was stalemate. I can also 
understand that the request for a video call would have seemed frustrating and irrelevant to 
Mrs A  especially when Tide didnt contact Mrs A at the agreed time. 
Unfortunately, despite our investigation here, the nature of the IT problem that led to this is 
ultimately unclear. Tide has explained that because the account is now closed, it now cant 
identify what the issue ultimately was. Thatll be frustrating for R Ltd, but its worth saying 
that Tide has admitted that there were issues here. But it also tried to provide workarounds 
for R Ltd  some of which werent suitable. So  Ive focused on the more practical aspect of 
how much compensation would be fair and reasonable given the impact this situation had on 
R Ltd.
When considering compensation, we look at financial loss, and compensation for 
inconvenience. 
In terms of financial loss, R Ltd has said that the business was prevented from operating 
because both its software application and mobile phone account were paid through the Tide 
account. I can see that there were card payments to both firms in, for example, June and 
July 2021, but not after that. Its understandable that R Ltd wouldnt want to use the Tide 
account to make card payments, when it wasnt possible to access the online facility. But 
Mrs A hasnt explained why she wasnt able to continue to pay for these important services 
in another way, to such an extent that the business was prevented from operating. So I 
havent seen any evidence to show that itd be fair for me to say that Tide should have to 
compensate R Ltd for financial loss.
Turning to inconvenience, its important to explain that, for a limited company, the 
compensation we award is different to that for individuals. A limited company may be caused 
inconvenience, but isnt a natural person and cant have hurt feelings. So, we wouldnt 
award compensation for distress to a limited company, even if, as here, Mrs A experienced 
distress individually.
Having considered compensation on this basis, I find that £100 was fair for the 
inconvenience which R Ltd  rather than Mrs A personally  experienced during this issue.As Ive set out above, ClearBank made an increased offer of £100 compensation in total. I 
endorse that as a fair and reasonable conclusion to Mr Ms case and so ClearBank Limited 
should pay that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order ClearBank Limited to pay R Ltd 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman