DRN-3212127
The complaint
Mr I complains NewDay Ltd wont refund a payment made on his credit card to a secondary
ticket selling website (the Website) for event tickets.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr I bought five tickets for an event in April 2018 on his NewDay credit
card. In total, he paid £467.06.
Mr I says the Website misrepresented the ticket price to him  he says they failed to inform
him of the face value of the tickets and only realised upon receiving them that hed paid a lot
more than the face value. Mr I also says he feels the Website misled him into buying the
tickets as there were messages on the Website alerting him that there were only a certain
amount of tickets available. But Mr I says this was untrue.
Mr I feels the Website failed to inform him of the seat location at the time and also didnt
provide him with information about any restrictions relating to leg room. Mr I says he didnt
attend the event as the seat location of the tickets were unsuitable for his relative who was
due to attend, due to their medical condition.
NewDay looked into Mr Is concerns. They thought a claim under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) should be unsuccessful. They said the Website had
displayed the full cost of the tickets before Mr I agreed to the purchase. NewDay also told us
they didnt have grounds to raise a chargeback claim because they didnt feel they had a
reasonable prospect of success. NewDay acknowledged Mr I was given wrong information
when they told him a credit card can only be used for a Section 75 claim. NewDay
apologised for this error and applied a credit of £15 to Mr Is account in recognition of the
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr I brought his complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into things for him. Ultimately, he didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly
by declining Mr Is request for a refund. He said Mr I had entered his card details on the
Website when purchasing the tickets, therefore, hed authorised the transaction. Our
investigator also thought the full price was shown by the time Mr I completed the transaction.
So, he didnt think there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website.
Overall, our investigator didnt think NewDay needed to do anything else.
Mr I disagreed. In summary, he reiterated he was misled by the Website as he wasnt
informed of the face value of the tickets and also because the Website didnt let him know
the location of the seats had limited legroom  which Mr I has said was unsuitable for his
family member. Mr I said he felt the Website had acted unfairly in making him believe the
tickets were quickly selling out even though there was a number of tickets still available. So,
the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
This complaint is about NewDay, as Mr Is credit card account provider. Its not about the
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only
considering whether Mr I authorised NewDay to debit his account with the value of the
payment, and whether they should have helped with the dispute with the Website in any
other way.
Mr I doesnt argue he didnt buy the tickets on his credit card, he argues that he didnt pay
the face value amount for the tickets. He said he believed the price of the tickets to be
around £66 each, but then realised the total amount was £467.06 once he received the
tickets. Mr I says there were messages alerting him that there were only a certain amount of
tickets left so he felt rushed to complete the purchase process. While I appreciate what Mr I
has said, he would have had to enter his card details on to the Website and he would have
needed to place the order, to be able to obtain the tickets. Having carefully thought about
this, I think Mr I consented to and authorised the transaction.
Mr I says he wasnt aware the total price of the tickets would be over £400 and says he only
became aware of this once hed received the tickets. Weve got screenshot evidence of the
ticket buying process dating back to October 2017 - where the total price is displayed on
the final page before the buyer is asked to enter their card details. I can see this section also
includes any additional charges. This information would have likely been available to Mr I
before he entered his card details and proceeded to buy the tickets. Having considered
everything Mr I has said (including that he made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and
the evidence provided by NewDay, Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised and
correctly applied to Mr Is account with NewDay.
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant (as Mr I does
here), the card issuer (NewDay) can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for a
card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a reasonable
prospect of success, for example where goods or services arent received, or it appears that
the payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback
has been successful. But I dont think NewDay could have challenged the payment on the
basis Mr I didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions Ive already set
out.
Mr I has been consistent in telling us the seat location wasnt suitable for his family member
who was due to attend the event because of their health condition. I appreciate what Mr I 
has told us about this, but I dont think NewDay could have challenged the payment on the
basis that Mr I didnt get what he ordered. This is because Mr I chose the tickets he bought. I
also havent seen anything to suggest Mr I was told anything untrue about the tickets and
their location. So, I dont think NewDay could have reasonably challenged the payment on
the basis the tickets didnt match their description.
I note Mr I says he was overcharged for the tickets because he didnt pay face value for
them. But I dont think theres a reason code NewDay could have used under the
chargeback scheme rules to get Mr Is money back on the basis that he was being charged
more than a tickets face value. As Ive explained, Mr I authorised the transaction and agreed
to pay for the tickets. NewDay are required to consider whether there is a reasonable
prospect of success when they are considering whether to go through the chargeback
process or not. Bearing in mind Mr I authorised the transaction and received the tickets,
NewDays decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a chargeback is
fair and reasonable in my opinion. So, Im not currently persuaded they acted unfairly.NewDay say they credited Mr Is account with £15 in recognition of the inconvenience
caused when they incorrect informed Mr I that his credit card could only be used for Section
75 claims. And I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. In any
case, I dont think this incorrect information had a material impact on NewDays
consideration of Mr Is chargeback claim.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit card, I have also taken into account how Section
75 applies to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mr I has an equal right to claim
against NewDay as he does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if certain conditions are met.
My role isnt to decide NewDays liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me
to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such as
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions in this case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Website's
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the
Buyers and Sellers."
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does
provide a service. And for this they charge buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website
says they:
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Website's name] platform, guaranteeing
tickets and providing customer service.
In effect then, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr I, NewDay and the
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee.
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time,
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition necessary, for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. In Mr Is
case, Ive seen the breakdown of the amount the Website charged him and can see he paid
a total of £467.06. Looking at the order confirmation provided by the Website, the total ticket
cost came to £340.40. The Website then charged booking (£98.88) and shipping fees
(£18.01) and the remainder was VAT (£19.77). This comes to £136.66. So, Im satisfied that
the Websites fees for their services in this case was more than £100 but less than £30,000.
This means I think Mr I could have a valid claim under Section 75.
So, Ive established that the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75
about the service the Website provided, and that the cash price of that service is sufficient
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
Mr I has complained he didnt pay face value for the tickets. I appreciate Mr Is concerns;
however, Im not persuaded there is a misrepresentation here. I say this because Mr I knewthe price he was paying for the tickets and went through the purchase process to get them.
Im not persuaded hes been told anything untrue which materially persuaded him to buy the
tickets he otherwise wouldnt have. Additionally, Mr I received the tickets, but chose not to
attend the event. So, Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract either. In any
case, its the seller which sets the price of the tickets, not the Website. This means the
difference between the face value of each ticket, and what Mr I paid for each ticket, went to
the seller, not the Website.
Mr I says the seat location of the tickets wasnt suitable for his family member due to their
health condition. And from what Mr I has told us, it seems he was told the seats were in the
Grand Tier. So, even though Mr I may not have been given all of the information about the
seats to be able to make an informed decision about the suitability of the tickets, I dont think
Mr I was necessarily told anything that was untrue. Ive not seen any evidence which shows
Mr I didnt get the tickets that he paid for or in the section he selected at the time. And Im
not persuaded theres any evidence to suggest Mr I was provided with false or untrue
information about the seat location. With all of this in mind, I dont think the tickets have been
misrepresented to Mr I. Nor do I think theres been a breach of contract.
was there anything else within the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that NewDay should have
considered?
Even though Ive made the finding that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary, Section 56 has the effect of making the Website the agent of NewDay during
the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr I entering into a transaction with them. So,
essentially, this means NewDay are responsible for the acts or omissions of the Website and
what was said or done before the transaction was entered in to and conducted by the
Website, in other words, NewDay have to stand behind the things the Website said, did,
didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim under Section 56, there has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangement in place - which is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However, unlike
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the
impact of Section 56 and whether NewDay ought to have considered this in Mr Is case.
With this in mind, Ive thought about whether the Website misrepresented the information, or
the tickets Mr I purchased. As previously explained, Ive seen screenshot evidence of the
buying process from 2017 - which I think is more likely than not, the same steps Mr I
followed when he purchased the tickets. And I can see the total price is displayed on the 
final page before Mr I would have been asked to enter his card details. So, I think its more
likely than not Mr I would have been made aware of the total cost of the tickets. Having
thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded the Website misrepresented the price to Mr I.
I note Mr I has also said the location of the seats werent suitable for his family member and
that he wasnt given information by the Website about the location restrictions. But as
previously explained, I dont think the information Mr I was given about the location of the
seats was misrepresented to him.
In summary, while I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr I, I think he
authorised NewDay to debit his credit card account with the value of the transaction to the
Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. I also dont think NewDay acted unfairly in
the handling of Mr Is chargeback or Section 75 claim. Had NewDay considered Mr Is claim
under Section 56, I dont think they wouldve acted unfairly by declining it. NewDay
acknowledged they gave Mr I the wrong information and credited his account with £15compensation for the inconvenience caused. And as Ive explained, I think this is fair
compensation in the circumstances. So, I currently dont think I can ask NewDay to refund
Mr I for the tickets or that they need to do anything more.
NewDay accepted my findings, but Mr I didnt. In summary, he said he was disappointment 
with my decision and that the Website are in breach of the Competition and Marketing 
Authority regulations by not informing him of the face value of the tickets and also not 
providing information about the seat location.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn of Mr Is disappointment to my provisional decision and its findings. 
Mr I has raised some concerns about the Website being in breach of Competition and 
Marketing Authority regulations. I can appreciate these concerns, however, as explained in 
my provisional decision, Im unable to look at the actions of the Website and can only look at 
those of NewDay. NewDays role in the matter is to be considered under the Chargeback 
rules in place, S75 of the Act and what is fair and reasonable with regard to those. So, 
although Mr I feels the Website has failings and points to regulation, it does not follow that 
NewDay are responsible because of this. The question of whether or not NewDay have 
treated Mr I fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is a different 
test to whether or not Mr I feels the Websites sales process was fair.
NewDay can only be responsible here if there is either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation which materially impacted Mr Is decision to purchase the tickets. And as 
explained in my provisional decision, while Mr I may not have been given all of the 
information about the seats to be able to make an informed decision, I dont think he was 
necessarily told anything untrue. So, it follows, I dont think there has been a breach of 
contract here. 
Equally, in relation to the face value of the tickets, Mr I knew the price he was paying for the 
tickets at the time and purchased them. Im not persuaded he was told anything untrue 
which materially persuaded him to buy the tickets he otherwise wouldnt have. So, my 
opinion remains that I dont think theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I understand Mr Is frustration about the outcome I've reached, but as Ive explained here 
and in my provisional decision, I don't think NewDay have acted unfairly.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman