DRN-4106119
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a payment he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr R disputes a faster payment of £9,512 made from his account using mobile banking. He 
says he was logged in at the time to check the balance but didnt authorise any payment. He 
is unhappy that TSB wont make a refund.
TSB said that there was no evidence to support that his account details had been 
compromised. The payment was made with a device that had been used on the account 
since 2020 for genuine payments. And the log in was made using his personal information. 
There was no evidence of remote access to his phone at the time. And the IP address 
recorded matched previous log ins.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that it was unlikely 
that someone else was able to access Mr Rs account and device at the same time and 
make a payment without him knowing. The IP address was the same for the logins that day. 
And Mr R had said that only he knows the memorable password on the account. It was up to 
TSB to set what the security requirements were for a payment. She noted that Mr R was 
unhappy that the beneficiary account wasnt blocked but she was satisfied that appropriate 
steps had been taken to investigate his claim. Mr R had provided information about a 
package installer being launched on his device at 08:16 online and said he had clicked on a 
pop up box. Our investigator had asked Mr R for any information to support that his phone 
had been taken over or accessed remotely. 
Mr R didnt agree. He is represented in this complaint. His representative said that they 
hadnt had the phone examined because they had moved to a new address with a new wi-fi 
connection. And so, this wouldnt reveal anything as this payment had been connected to the 
network used and the links. At one time theyd been told the memorable password used was 
eight characters, but Mr R said that his had been 11. Mr R has insisted that he didnt set up 
any new recipient. He used the memorable password to log on but not to authorise any 
payment. He is looking for justice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security details. And if it wasnt authorised    
Mr R wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the security information used 
for the payment?
- Did Mr R authorise the payment on the account? 
Im satisfied from the audit logs provided by TSB that the payment was made after there 
was a log into Mr Rs account online using his device and his memorable information. And 
so that the payment was authenticated. The issue is whether he consented to it.
His version of events about his log ins ties into the audit provided by TSB. He explained that 
he had logged in twice: once to check his balance and then again as he wanted to look at a 
payment. There are log ins at 08:15 and 08:16 and in the latter one the payment was made. 
He says he had the device with him. TSB has no information to indicate that his phone had 
been taken over based on its technical analysis. And as I say there is no other access to his 
account shown or different IP address. 
I know he says he clicked on a package installer at 08:16 and can see that hed already 
mentioned that to TSB based on its case notes. Hes not provided any information about 
what that did at the time or any professional analysis of his phone. Hes had a fair 
opportunity to do so, and it would be up to him to help substantiate that with any technical 
evidence and for example to provide something that wed be able to ask TSB to look at 
further. Having looked at the limited screenshot entry he refers to I dont have a reasonable 
basis to make a finding about it. I dont have anything to show that this was malicious or 
somehow enabled the payment to be made in the way he says must have happened. Or 
alternatively that this wasnt say referring to a genuine update link for android phones
There is no further log on attempt shown on the system until he logged on with a different 
device on 2 October 2022. He said he could no longer log on with his old device. Again, I 
can see the related enrolment of that new device and his log in on that day. He then 
reported what had happened.
I appreciate the size of the payment involved and Mr Rs insistence he didnt authorise it. I 
wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. And 
Im afraid I think on the information available that it was reasonable for TSB to hold him 
responsible for this payment and not do anything further. I know Mr R will be very 
disappointed at my conclusion given what is at stake for him. If he doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman