DRN-2853528
The complaint
The trustees of a will trust complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed the trusts account, 
wasted the trustees time, and was generally inefficient.
What happened
The trust, which I will refer to as W, has an account with HSBC in the name of the trust. In 
June 2019, three of the four trustees were replaced with three new trustees, and the fourth 
trustee continued to act. The four trustees who have acted since then all bring this complaint 
together, and they have all signed our complaint form, but they are represented in this 
complaint by one of them, who I will call Ms B. Ms B acts as a trustee in a professional 
capacity, and is a partner of a firm of chartered accountants. I will call her firm P. I will also 
refer to one of the old trustees who was removed as Mr B (who is not related to Ms B).
As I have said, three trustees were replaced in June 2019, but the bank was not informed of 
this at the time. In August of that year, the bank sent the trustees a letter asking them to 
update and confirm their business details, to comply with HSBCs know your customer 
obligations. This letter set a deadline in November, after which Ws account would be closed 
if the requested information had not been provided.
On receiving this letter, the trustees decided to update the bank with the identities of the new 
trustees. This was not as straightforward as it should have been, and although Ms B took the 
new signature mandate for the account to a branch of HSBC in October, it was not accepted 
by the branch staff. A number of phone calls had to be made to arrange an appointment at 
another branch in November, after the deadline. This time the mandate was accepted, but 
two weeks later HSBC asked for a copy of the will. This was provided, but HSBC later said it 
could not find the identity documents of two of the new trustees, and they had to be provided 
again (there is a dispute about whether they had been provided in the first place, but its not 
necessary for me to decide that issue). This was not resolved until mid-December. The 
documents provided were not dealt with promptly, and the account was closed in January 
2020.
Meanwhile, the trustees had received letters from HSBC warning them that the account 
would be closed. These letters were addressed to Mr B, after the bank had been told that 
Mr B was no longer a trustee, and the trustees complain that this is an example of the banks 
inefficiency. They asked HSBC for assurances that the account would not be closed, and 
they say that HSBC gave them this assurance in two phone calls in October.
The result of the account being closed was that a cheque to HMRC was not honoured, and 
by the time the trustees discovered this, they had incurred late payment interest of £17.88. 
They are also concerned that they may incur further penalties.
The trustees complained to HSBC, which agreed to reinstate the account in February. But 
the trustees felt that HSBC had not understood their complaint, since the banks final 
response letter implied that their complaint had been that they were dissatisfied with having 
been required to comply with the know your customer checks, which was not the case. 
They had received no apology. So they brought this complaint to our Service. They asked to 
be compensated for the time Ms B, the professional trustee, had spent dealing with this 
matter, for which she had billed the other trustees at an hourly rate of £192 plus VAT, for 
about eight hours of work (about five hours corresponding with HSBC, and three hours 
bringing this complaint to us). They also asked for another £450 for their trouble. Since 
bringing this complaint, they have received further letters from HSBC addressed to Mr B, 
even though he is no longer on the account mandate.
HSBC admitted that its staff had made several errors and that this had caused considerable 
inconvenience to the trustees. It accepted that it had not dealt adequately with the complaint 
in its final response letter. It offered its apologies and offered to pay £350 as compensation. 
But it did not agree to pay as much compensation as the trustees had asked for.
Our investigator thought that HSBCs offer was fair. She was not persuaded that the 
professional costs incurred were the direct result of the banks errors. In particular, she said 
the trustees could have brought this complaint to our Service for free, so she did not think 
they should be reimbursed for that. She concluded that the apology and offer were fair. She 
did not think that HSBC had been wrong to continue to address letters to Mr B.
Ms B responded on behalf of all of the trustees. She did not accept the investigators 
opinion. She explained that the breakdown of the costs incurred (already provided to the 
investigator) had differentiated between the work she would always have had to do, and the 
eight hours of additional work which had only become necessary as a direct consequence of 
HSBCs errors. She denied that any delay had been caused by the trustees. She insisted 
that continuing to send letters to Mr B was wrong, and that a member of HSBCs staff had 
promised to rectify this problem. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have provisionally decided to award W some of Ms Bs costs, in addition 
to the banks offer of £350. I will explain why.
It is not in dispute that HSBCs service could have been better, and so I will not need to 
make detailed findings about that here. Instead, I will mainly concentrate on what needs to 
be done to put things right. But before I do that, I will deal with the matter of the letters which 
were addressed to Mr B.
Unlike our investigator, I do think that addressing letters to Mr B, once the bank knew he was 
no longer a trustee, was an error. I dont think it is an excuse that the trustees had not yet 
updated their contact details for letters: it would have been reasonable for them to assume 
that this had been done automatically once the signature mandate had been updated. 
Indeed, I would expect this to have been dealt with as part of that process, at the same time. 
But I think that error is substantially mitigated by the fact that although the salutation in the 
letters was Dear [Mr B], the letters were actually sent to Ps address, where Ms B works, 
and the first line of the address was the name of the trust, not Mr Bs name. There is no 
evidence that Mr B opened these letters himself, and so its likely that Ms B received them 
directly. For that reason, I dont think that any material inconvenience has occurred as a 
result of that happening, and so I wont award compensation for that issue.
Taking into account everything else, I think that HSBCs apology and offer of £350 
compensation for the inconvenience caused is fair, and is in line with what our Service would typically award for this level of trouble. The trustees may divide this compensation between 
them in such proportions as they see fit. (I will order HSBC to pay this sum to Ws account, 
unless Ms B tells me that this will be impractical, in which case I will require it to be paid to a 
trustees personal account.)
However, I also think that it would be fair to require HSBC to pay some of Ws consequential 
losses. Firstly, it should pay the £17.88 late payment interest. There is currently no evidence 
that HMRC has charged or will charge W anything else, but if evidence is provided to me 
that it has done, or has said that it intends to do so, then I will consider it.
Secondly, I currently think that HSBC should reimburse W for some of the fees Ms B has 
charged the trust in her professional capacity as the trustees chartered accountant, 
notwithstanding that she is also one of the trustees. She was added as a trustee in June 
2019 (replacing Mr B, who was another accountant at P), so that the other trustees could 
leave the administration of banking and tax issues to her instead of dealing with such 
matters themselves, and she charged them for her services. I think it would be fair that the 
additional, avoidable fees for the extra work she had to do as a result of HSBCs poor 
service should be refunded by HSBC. That does not include the work she would always 
have had to do anyway, which Ms B has been careful to distinguish from the additional work.
That also does not include the time Ms B has spent on bringing this complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. That is because we provide complainants with a free 
service, which is informal and which should not normally require professional assistance. 
I would only award a refund of professional fees so incurred in an exceptional case, and I do 
not think this is such a case.
Ms B has billed the trust for 2.65 hours of work she carried out from December 2019 to 
February 2020, and I think it is fair that HSBC should pay for all of that. Including VAT, that 
comes to £610.56. She has also claimed for additional work done in April 2020, but that was 
after the account had been re-opened, and it all consisted of preparing and pursuing this 
complaint, first with HSBC directly (3.5 hours) and then with this Service. I currently dont 
think that it would be proportionate to tell HSBC to refund three and a half hours of work 
which was spent preparing a complaint in order to recover the cost of less than three hours 
work, but it would be fair to allow one hour for this (£230.40). This comes to a total of 
£840.96.
Finally, I have noted that the account terms and conditions say: You must tell us 
immediately if someone ceases to be a signatory. The trustees should have told HSBC 
about the change in the trustees when it happened in June 2019, but they waited until 
October, four months later. I have to consider whether this is relevant to the amount of 
compensation I award, because if a person who brings a complaint has failed to take steps 
to mitigate their loss, then I would normally have to take that into account, potentially by 
reducing the amount of compensation that would otherwise have been awarded. Its likely 
that the know your customer procedure could have been completed more quickly if the 
identities of the new trustees had been provided to the bank earlier. I dont know if this would 
have been enough to avoid the account being closed in January, or if that would still have 
happened. Whatever I ultimately decide about that point, I will remain of the view that the 
primary responsibility for the problems still lay with HSBCs inefficiency, since the trustees 
delay in acting would not normally have resulted, by itself, in the problems which ensued. 
I invite both parties to address this point in their response to this provisional decision.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties I am minded to order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
W £1,208.84. This award consists of:£840.96 as a contribution towards Ms Bs fees,
£350 for the trustees inconvenience, and
£17.88 compensation for the late payment interest charged by HMRC.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted that £350 compensation for inconvenience, and £17.88 for 
consequential loss, were fair. But they both disagreed with my provisional findings about 
Ms Bs fees.
Ms B accepted what I had said about her fees for referring this complaint to our Service. But 
she argued that I should require the bank to reimburse all of her fees for bringing the 
complaint to HSBC. She pointed out HSBC had known that a professional trustee was 
involved, and so her professional costs had been a foreseeable head of loss for the trust. 
She said the bank could have avoided these costs being incurred if it had recognised its 
mistake and paid compensation immediately. She said that it was not fair that the trustees 
would be left out of pocket as a direct result of the banks errors.
HSBC said it should not have to pay any of Ms Bs fees at all. It suggested that it had not 
been necessary for Ms B to act in her professional capacity, because any of the trustees 
could have done the work required. It would therefore be unfair to require HSBC to 
reimburse them for the fees. In particular, HSBCs complaint service was free to use (just 
like our Service), and so it should not have to pay for any of the time Ms B had spent on 
bringing the complaint to the bank. It said that to decide otherwise would set a concerning 
precedent.
My findings
I think it is reasonable for trustees to instruct a professional accountant to handle the 
administration of the trusts financial affairs, even if they could have done the work 
themselves for free. It follows that I think that any additional work which the accountant has 
to do as a result of a banking error is likely to be an expense reasonably incurred. So my 
starting point is that in those circumstances, such costs should be refunded by the bank, 
since I would generally try to put a complainant back in the position in which they would have 
been but for the banks error. For that reason, I will still order HSBC to reimburse the trust for 
Ms Bs fees for doing the extra work.
I have given further thought to HSBCs argument about its complaints procedure, which  
like ours  is free to use. I accept that any of the other trustees could have brought the 
complaint instead of Ms B, at no cost. So I considered disallowing Ms Bs fees for bringing 
the trusts complaint to the bank, on the same grounds that I did not allow them for referring 
that complaint to our Service. But on further reflection, I remain of the view that this was still 
an expense which the trust reasonably and properly incurred. I think the accountants work 
fell within the ambit of the duties for which the trust had instructed her, especially as she was 
already very familiar with the issues involved. So although the trustees had a duty to mitigate 
their loss, I dont think that duty extended to complaining to the bank themselves, instead of 
having Ms B do it.
I have also considered Ms Bs representations about why I should require HSBC to refund all 
of those costs, instead of around a third of them. As Ive said, my starting point is to put the 
complainants back in the position they would have been in if nothing had gone wrong, and 
that would normally mean refunding all of those costs. But I still think it would not be 
proportionate to require HSBC to refund the cost of 3.5 hours of work which was done to 
recover the cost of the 2.65 hours of work which Ms B spent on dealing with the original 
problem. So I remain of the view that the costs of one hour of her time would be fair compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay W £1,208.84.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021. Ms B may respond on Ws behalf. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman