DRN-2385213
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
What happened
Mr P was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems. Ill refer 
to this company as A. Following a meeting, Mr P agreed to enter into a contract with A for it 
to supply and install a solar panel system at his home. To pay for this, Mr P also agreed to 
enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan with Shawbrook.
Mr P, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA. The representative 
said that A had told Mr P that the solar panel system would be self-funded and the financial 
benefits hed receive by way of electricity savings and feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments would 
off-set the cost of his monthly loan repayments. But this hadnt happened. Instead, his 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher than any benefits hed received.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook agreed that the benefits of the solar panels had been 
misrepresented to Mr P. To put things right it said it had calculated the potential savings and 
income to Mr P, from the solar panels, over the 15 year term of the loan. It then said it would 
restructure the loan so he would pay no more than. It also offered to pay Mr P £200 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P, via his representative, didnt accept the offer. He explained that hed moved home and 
thought that Shawbrook should take this into account when making its offer. Mr P referred 
his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They said that the offer put forward 
by Shawbrook was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr P disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr P paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Shawbrook 
 the creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by A in the same way he 
could have claimed against A, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
A, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by A as an agent for Shawbrook.
Mr P says that he was contacted by A and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. Shawbrook has accepted that the benefits of the 
solar panel system were misrepresented to Mr P. And based on this, it has offered to make 
the solar panel system cost neutral over the original 15 year loan term.
Mr P, via his representative, doesnt think that this is a fair outcome as it doesnt take into 
account that Mr P has since moved home and is no longer in receipt of the FIT payments or 
electricity savings.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was a misrepresentation made, or breach of contract, 
that led Mr P to believe that he could transfer his solar panels to a new home and continue 
to retain the benefits.
Mr P has said that at the time he entered into the contract with A he had no plans to move 
home. He has told us that no discussion took place with A about whether he would be able 
to move his solar panels to a new home and retain his FIT payments and electricity savings.
So, Mr P hasnt ever said that A misrepresented what would happen if he moved home, or 
that he was led to believe he would still be able to retain the benefits from the solar panel 
system. 
Ive reviewed the contract Mr P had with A. Within this, I havent seen a term or an implied 
term that suggests that if Mr P moved home, he could move his solar panels and retain the 
financial benefits. So I dont consider that there has been a breach of contract on this point.
Under section 75 of the CCA, Shawbrook is liable for any misrepresentation made, or breach 
of contract, by A. As I have explained above, I havent found that there was a 
misrepresentation made or a breach of contract about what would happen if Mr P decided to 
move home. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this part of the 
complaint and ask Shawbrook to amend its offer.
Putting things right
Based on the information that has been provided by all parties, Im satisfied that the offer 
from Shawbrook, is fair. Shawbrook has offered to make the solar panel system cost neutral 
over the 15 year term of the loan.
By making the solar panel system cost neutral Mr P will have previously been paying more 
each month than he should have been. Shawbrook has give Mr P the following four options 
as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:1. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr P 
continues to pay his current monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early,
2. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr P 
pays a new, lower monthly loan payment until the end of the loan term,
3. the overpayments are returned to Mr P and he continues to pay his current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or;
4. the overpayments are returned to Mr P and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
Im satisfied that the offer from Shawbrook to pay Mr P £200 reflects the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
estimate the potential savings and income to Mr P from the panels over the 15 year 
loan term and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible it should use 
Mr Ps electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8%* simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,
allow Mr P to decide how hed like his overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
pay Mr P £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue * Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Michael Fisher
Ombudsman