The complaint
Miss A complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited has turned down a theft claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss A let out her home overnight through an online website. There was a theft 
from her home and many of Miss As things were stolen. So she made a claim on her home 
insurance policy.
Gresham turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded loss or damage 
caused by tenants or paying guests. It also cancelled Miss As policy because it said it 
wouldnt have offered cover if itd known that the property was sub-let.
Miss A was unhappy with Greshams decision. She said someone else had come into her 
home and hadnt been stopped by the people shed let her home to. She said itd been this 
person whod caused the damage and stolen her things. But Gresham didnt change its 
position. It thought this version of events wasnt consistent with what Miss A had told the 
police. So Miss A asked us to look into her complaint about her claim being turned down.
Our investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. He thought the police 
report clearly showed that Miss A had invited people into her home and that theyd paid to 
stay there. So he felt it was fair for Gresham to turn down the claim.
Miss A disagreed. She felt the policy terms were ambiguous, given the paying guests were 
separate to the person who carried out the theft. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Gresham has 
treated Miss A fairly. Ill explain why.
First, its clear Miss A suffered a theft at her property. It seems like many valuable and 
sentimental items were stolen. I appreciate how upsetting this mustve been for her and I 
sympathise with her position. 
But I need to consider whats happened and whether Miss As loss is covered by the terms 
of her policy. Ive looked carefully at the policy and I can see that under the theft section, the 
policy says:
DRN-1347661We will not coverloss or damage caused by paying guests, tenants or you.
Ive considered both what Miss A told us happened and the witness statement she gave the 
police. Miss A indicated to us that while shed let her home to paying guests; the person 
whod carried out the theft was unknown and had entered her home without permission.  But 
the police report doesnt reflect this. While it refers to the theft being carried out by persons 
unknown, Miss As witness statement doesnt mention her home being entered by another 
person. It only refers to Miss A letting the property to three people, who she showed around 
before leaving her home for a night. 
We asked Miss A if she could give us any explanation for the difference between what shed 
told us and her witness statement. But she didnt respond by the deadline the investigator 
gave. In the absence of this information, Im more persuaded by the information on the 
police report. Thats because Miss A made the statement around the time of the loss, so I 
think her recollections at this point are likely to be clearer.
It seems that the theft took place during the time Miss As home was occupied by people 
shed let the property to and had agreed to being there. So it seems to me that its fair for 
Gresham to decide that the loss was specifically excluded by the terms of Miss As policy.
Gresham took the decision to cancel Miss As policy because it said it wouldnt have covered 
her had it known she sub-let her property. It said shed told its loss adjuster that her home 
had been let for six months while she was away. This information also appears to be 
included in the police report. The loss adjuster also provided evidence which showed Miss 
As home was still advertised on a popular accommodation website. 
It doesn't appear as if Miss A has complained about the cancellation of her policy. Her 
complaint focused on the turning down of her claim. If she wishes to do complain about the 
cancellation, shell need to first complain to Gresham about it before we can potentially help.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman