DRN-1800385
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is seeking reimbursement of 
its claim costs after it avoided (treated it as if it never existed) her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs M is represented in this matter by her husband, Mr M, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ms son, also a named driver on her policy, caused an accident whilst driving her car. 
Mrs M notified Advantage but didnt make a claim.  Advantage validated the policy and found 
that Mrs M hadnt disclosed a driving conviction when she took out the policy. Its 
underwriters said cover wouldnt have been offered if she had disclosed it. So Advantage 
avoided the policy and returned the premiums. 
But Advantage settled the claim of the other driver involved in the accident under its Road 
Traffic Act (RTA) responsibilities and, six months later, it sought to recover these costs from 
Mrs M. Mr M said theyd had no correspondence from Advantage since the email saying the 
policy was avoided. He thought the other driver had made his repairs himself. Advantage 
waived the hire charges in the claim and offered to agree a repayment plan with Mrs M. But 
Mr M was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had fairly and reasonably avoided the policy. He thought Advantage was obliged 
to deal with the other drivers claim under its RTA responsibilities. And he thought it was 
entitled to recover these costs from Mrs M. He thought Advantage had written to Mrs M 
about this and asked her to sign a consent and indemnity form, though Mrs M said she didnt 
receive this. And he thought Advantage had wrongly dated one letter that Mr M thought 
showed that it was trying to cover its errors.
Mr M replied that they hadnt received any correspondence from Advantage between an 
email about the avoidance and a recorded delivery demand for payment sent six months 
later. He said they hadnt received the consent and indemnity form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration that they were asked for reimbursement of 
about £3,600 by Advantage some six months after the accident. I can understand that they 
must have been taken aback when the demand for payment arrived. This all stemmed from 
Advantages decision to avoid Mrs Ms policy because of misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. If the insurer is entitled to 
avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims under it. 
Advantage thinks Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she didnt declare a motoring conviction incurred two years previously. Ive looked at 
the question she was asked when she completed the application and agree she failed to 
take reasonable care. This is because she was asked if shed had any driving offences 
within the past five years. I think this was a clear question asked by Advantage through the 
comparison site Mrs M used. 
Mrs M didnt declare any driving offences and she didnt correct this error when she received 
the Statement of Insurance. Mrs M later said this offence had slipped her mind. And I think 
this means Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mrs M had not 
made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered her cover. This means I am satisfied 
Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Therefore, Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to avoid Mrs Ms policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Advantage doesnt 
have to deal with the claim following the accident. 
But I think Advantage still had an obligation under the RTA to deal with the other drivers 
claim. Advantage needed to consider the claim as if the policy was valid and whoever was 
driving was insured on it. But I need to consider what Advantage told Mrs M when it took 
over the claim. 
Advantage said that it sent Mrs M a consent and indemnity form to sign and return with its 
letter of avoidance. This form would authorise Advantage to take over the claim and give it 
sole discretion about whether to settle the claim or defend it. But it would also give it the right 
to recover the losses from the Mrs M. If Mrs M signed this then wed usually think its fair for 
the insurer to recover its losses from her.
Mr M is adamant that they didnt receive this letter. And I have no reason to doubt him. But I 
also have no reason to doubt that the letter was sent and I cant hold Advantage responsible 
for the postal service. In any case, Mr M knew that the other driver had his car repaired 
although he didnt ask him about this. Mr M said theyd exchanged details but he expected 
the other driver to contact him about his repair costs. But hed made a claim instead. And so 
I think Advantage was entitled to settle the claim to minimise its potential outlay. And I think its fair for Advantage to recover its losses from Mrs M unless its decision has 
prejudiced her option to defend the claim in court. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs M 
wanted to defend the claim. And, as her son had admitted liability, there wouldnt be any 
chance of success in any case. So Advantages decision didnt prejudice Mrs Ms position 
and so I think Advantage can fairly recover its losses from Mrs M. 
Mr M was concerned that one letter from Advantage had an incorrect date. I can see that the 
investigator has already established that this was a typo. Ive no reason to think that 
Advantage created this letter to cover up any error on its part. 
So I cant say that Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling the other drivers 
claim. And I think its entitled to recover its outlay from Mrs M. I think there has been a delay 
in its pursuing Mrs M for this, due to its oversight. But thats no reason for Mrs M not to pay 
it. Advantage has waived the hire charges incurred and offered to set up a repayment plan. I 
expect it to honour this waiver and offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman