DRN-4210216
The complaint
Mr W complains, via a professional representative, that he was given unsuitable advice by 
Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr W held benefits in a DB scheme from a period of previous employment. In 1999 he 
transferred his benefits from the DB scheme, which at the time had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of £99,053, to a personal pension with NPI. NPI later became part of 
Phoenix, with Phoenix having responsibility for addressing this complaint about NPI. So, to 
keep things simple, Ill largely just refer to Phoenix in this decision.
Mr W complained to Phoenix, via his representative, in 2022. He said hed approached 
Phoenix after seeing an advert about taking advice and that it had advised him to transfer 
out of his DB scheme. He said hed been encouraged to transfer by the adviser who had 
said his DB scheme pension was frozen and wouldnt provide him good returns. Mr W said 
the advice had all been given over the phone and by post with insufficient explanation given 
for him to understand the value of the guaranteed benefits he was giving up. He said he was 
unemployed at the time and had no previous investment experience and a transfer should 
not have been recommended.
Phoenix rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said in the application form for the pension Mr W had 
recorded that he was working as a financial adviser. And the other point of sale documents 
indicated he worked for a business which Ill call Firm B  which was involved in the transfer. 
Phoenix said the documentation indicated that Mr W had been directly involved in the 
transfer in a professional capacity and had completed forms to confirm that initial 
commission payable to Firm B should be sacrificed and instead paid into the plan. And 
Phoenix said it had also found no evidence that it had provided advice.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. His representative said, while he worked as a 
financial adviser, he did not have the relevant qualifications to advise on a DB transfer. And 
the advice had been overseen by a senior member of staff. The representative said Mr W 
believed this senior figure worked for Phoenix, and that he had relied on their advice when 
transferring.  
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. But she didnt think that it should be 
upheld. She said the available evidence didnt indicate that Phoenix had provided Mr W with 
advice.
Mr W did not accept the Investigators findings. He reiterated that hed been given advice by 
a senior member of staff who he believed was acting in his interests. He also said Phoenix 
shouldve ensured that he understood the risks involved.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, again noting that Phoenix wasnt 
the adviser so in her view hadnt acted unfairly. As agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the advice was 
given. And where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Ws complaint is that Phoenix gave him unsuitable advice. But, like our Investigator, I 
dont think the evidence supports that it advised him.
Mr Ws representatives have said that he recalls the contact about the transfer being over 
the phone and via post. There is no dispute that Phoenix received the transfer from the DB 
scheme into a personal pension arrangement with it. But neither party have been able to 
provide a copy of a written recommendation letter or suitability report indicating that Phoenix 
advised Mr W to transfer. Nor have I seen other documents I wouldve expected to if 
Phoenix had given advice, such as a fact find completed by it. Rather the documents 
available seem to be product illustrations  which as the product provider of the new pension 
Phoenix would normally produce  and application forms for a pension with Phoenix. And 
these dont suggest that Phoenix provided advice.
In addition, the information available from the time indicates that Firm B, whom Mr W worked 
for, was involved in the transfer. As Ive mentioned, Ive seen copies of transfer illustrations 
produced by Phoenix. These confirm they were prepared for Mr W but also note that, in the 
context of them having been prepared, he was a client of Firm B. Ive also seen copies of 
letters Phoenix sent to Firm B, providing copies of the illustrations, and updating it on the 
progress of the transfer. And the section of the application form relating to commission 
names Firm B as the independent financial adviser. Which, if Phoenix had provided advice, 
would be unusual. 
The form relating to commission said that Firm B wished to sacrifice any initial commission 
to enhance its clients terms, with Mr W named as the client. This declaration was signed by 
Mr W. But appears to have been done so on behalf of Firm B, in his professional capacity  
with the application noting he was a financial adviser at the time. 
Subsequent benefit review documents sent to Mr W by Phoenix in the years that followed 
the advice also indicated that it still understood Mr W to be a client of Firm B.
All of which indicates, in my view, that Firm B was acting on behalf of Mr W here. And that 
Mr W was involved in the transfer in a professional capacity as well.
Mr W says he wasnt qualified to provide pension transfer advice and relied on a senior 
advisor who he thought was acting in his interests. And he believes this senior advisor 
worked for Phoenix. 
The transfer took place over twenty years ago and memories can and do fade. And I note 
Mr W and his representative said, when making the complaint, his circumstances at the time 
included being unemployed. But the application form said he was working as a financial 
adviser, which is supported by him having completed documents on behalf of Firm B. Which 
does suggest he may not fully or accurately recall what took place. That notwithstanding 
though, I havent seen anything that supports that Phoenix provided the advice he has referred to. 
Id also note that the rules in place at the time of the transfer are different to those that are in 
place now. And Mr W was not required to take advice before proceeding with the transfer.
Taking all of this into account, based on the available information, I cant reasonably say 
Phoenix is responsible for advice Mr W mightve received to transfer his pension benefits.
Mr Ws representative says that Phoenix still had to ensure that Mr W understood the risks 
involved and shouldnt have allowed the transfer. But again, the documentation indicated 
that a regulated financial adviser, Firm B, was involved in the transfer on behalf of Mr W. 
And that Mr W worked as a financial adviser for that business. Even if pension transfer 
advice wasnt something he usually gave, I think it was reasonable for Phoenix to expect that 
he understood general principles of risk. And for it to believe that the advising firm that was 
involved on his behalf had explained the risks of the specific transaction to him. The pension 
illustrations also confirmed that rates of return were not guaranteed, were only examples and 
what Mr W got back from the pension was entirely dependent on how his investments grew 
 noting there was no minimum or maximum for this. So, I dont think Phoenix has acted 
unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman