DRN-2500713
The complaint
Mr D complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA didnt deal with his request for a refund 
for a service which he hadnt received.
What happened
Mr D had an account with PayPal. He used his account to pay for a subscription for a 
service. He says he paid an annual subscription in November 2019. He says that the service 
became inoperable after April 2020. He asked the service provider to give him a refund for 
the seven-month period he couldnt use its service and to cancel any future payments. He 
says that the service provider didnt do this.
He contacted PayPal. He says he sent it six emails but each time he got a generic response 
which didnt assist him. He complained to our service.
Our investigator asked PayPal to provide its response to what Mr D had said. PayPal said 
that Mr D hadnt followed the procedure set out in the User Agreement. Hed set up a billing 
agreement with the service provider and payments had been taken annually since 
November 2016. It said Mr D hadnt cancelled that agreement. It said if he wanted to cancel 
the agreement, he could do that in the way set out in the agreement. It also said that if he 
wanted to make a claim under the Buyer Protection provisions in the User Agreement he 
shouldve raised a dispute on its Resolution Centre. It said he hadnt done that. So, it didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and asked our service to continue to investigate his complaint. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said that PayPal provided a user-initiated service 
to Mr D. He said it was his responsibility to cancel any active billing agreements if that was 
what he wanted to do. He also thought PayPal hadnt made any errors or acted 
unreasonably.
Mr D didnt agree. He said the service provider had now cancelled the payments going 
forward. His complaint was about the seven-month period from April 2020 to November 
2020 when hed paid for a service he hadnt been able to use. Hed contacted PayPal about 
this on several occasions, but itd blatantly refused to acknowledge his emails or deal with 
his request for a refund.
Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of the User Agreement between Mr D and PayPal. Ive also looked 
at PayPals website to see the information it provides about disputes. 
The request to cancel the billing agreement
The User Agreement stated that the user (Mr D) was free to cancel a billing agreement at 
any time. In order to do this, he needed to follow the steps set out in the agreement. 
So, the User Agreement made clear it was Mr Ds responsibility to take action if he wanted to 
cancel the billing arrangement. And it also set out what he had to do. Mr D didnt do that. 
It is the case that no further payments were taken from his account by the service provider 
after November 2019. It seems that the service provider itself decided to cancel the billing 
agreement and take no further payments.
Mr D says that as the service provider has cancelled the billing agreement, this is no longer 
part of his complaint. 
The request for the seven-month refund
The User Agreement also includes provisions about the Buyer Protection which PayPal 
offers to its users. Under these provisions a user can raise a dispute with a provider. The 
website indicates that a dispute can be raised if:
You dont receive an item
You receive an item but its significantly different than the description on the 
sellers website
Although both of these references are to receipt of an item, I think they could equally be 
relevant to a service that the user claims he/she hasnt received. So, I think Mr D couldve 
tried to raise his request for a refund under the Buyer Protection provisions in the User 
Agreement.
The User Agreement and the website set out how such a request can be raised and the 
timescales that apply. Theres no evidence Mr D did do what was required. He says he sent 
emails to PayPal. But, in order to raise a dispute, the User Agreement stated that he needed 
to open a dispute in the Resolution Centre for his PayPal account. And, he wouldve needed 
to do that within 180 days of the date that hed made the payment.
He made the payment on 26 November 2019  so he had until 24 May 2020 to raise the 
dispute on the Resolution Centre.
I asked Mr D to provide evidence of the actions he took. Hes explained that he was still 
trying to resolve the problem with the service provider until around April 2020. He says he 
then initially tried to complain to PayPal through the Resolution Centre. He wasnt able to 
provide evidence of this because he says he only has access to the last three months 
transactions when he logs into his account. 
PayPal disputes what Mr D has said. It says it has no record of the dispute being logged 
through its Resolution Centre.
Mr D says he also tried to phone PayPal and when that wasnt possible, he filled in a 
webform  but he just got automated responses telling him to log into his account. 
Mr D has provided copies of these automated responses. Ive looked at those responses. I 
note that the dates on all of the copy responses is after 24 May 2020  which was the date 
that Mr D wouldve had to raise his dispute under the Buyer Protection provisions. So, even 
if PayPal had sent a more substantive response in these emails, it wouldnt have changed the position that it was already too late to raise the dispute under the Buyer Protection 
clause.
Having considered everything Mr D and PayPal have said, Im not persuaded on the basis of 
the evidence thats been provided to me, that Mr D took the necessary action to raise his 
dispute in the way set out in the User Agreement. For that reason, I dont think PayPal did 
anything wrong when it didnt refund the seven months payments to him. And, I dont require 
PayPal to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman