DRN-2546844
The complaint
Mr G has complained about delays in the handling of his motor insurance claim by his 
insurer U K Insurance Ltd (UKI), and also that it had refused to re-supply him a hire car.
What happened
Mr G was involved in an accident on 4 October 2020. He reported this to UKI (as being his 
fault) and initially discussions took place in respect of repairing the car. Mr G wanted to use 
his own garage, which UKI was not opposed to. But it explained to him that it had to validate 
the claim first. 
Initially a hire car was supplied to Mr G on 7 October 2020, but there were some mechanical 
issues with it. The hire company exchanged it and Mr G reports he had a working hire car 
from 10 October 2020. On 19 October Mr G returned the car and said hed arrange his own. 
But on 30 October he asked UKI to re-supply him a hire car. At this time UKI was still 
considering the claim but told Mr G that his policy only guaranteed him a hire car for certain 
periods at certain times in the claim. It said the period had expired and it wouldnt re-supply a 
car to him. 
Mr G wanted UKI to act faster to decide his claim and agree repairs. UKI said it had further 
enquiries to make  it wanted statements from Mr G and all his passengers. Mr G agreed to 
give a statement  but his passengers (who were making personal injury claims against 
Mr Gs policy) would not. UKI then decided to appoint an investigation company to look into 
the claim in more detail. An appointment for this company to visit Mr G was arranged for 
23 December 2020.
Prior to the claim investigation continuing, UKI issued a final response to Mr G on 
22 December 2020 in respect of the complaint hed made to it about delays and its refusal to 
supply the hire car. UKI said it would answer his complaint once the claim was concluded. In 
March 2021, UKI declined Mr Gs claim and confirmed his complaint hadnt been upheld.
Our investigator explained that we could only consider Mr Gs complaint to the point of UKIs 
final response in December 2020. Our investigator felt that UKIs enquiries to that point had 
been reasonable and timely. He felt its decision in respect of the hire car had been in line 
with the policy wording. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G said it wasnt reasonable that, as time went by, UKI had kept asking more questions. 
He said hed never told UKI his car was likely a total loss, as UKI alleged. Mr G said, in any 
event, the hire car hadnt really been provided until 10 October 2020, and hed asked for one 
to be re-supplied on 30 October 2020, so this was within the 21 days required by the policy. 
He said UKI had continued to delay after 22 December 2020. The complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim handling
I appreciate that UKIs period of consideration was frustrating for Mr G. I also understand its 
frustrating when one enquiry is made after another. But I accept that its not always possible 
to foretell what the result of one enquiry might be, such that everything that is ultimately 
needed is asked for together. The nature of claim enquiries sometimes means that once one 
piece of evidence is obtained, this raises further questions and generates the need for 
further enquiries. 
Im also mindful that claim enquiries can take time. For example, I can see that here UKI 
experienced some difficulty obtaining photos of the damaged car. I also note it felt it was 
necessary to review the statements of Mr Gs passengers. Im aware Mr G said that he 
couldnt control the response of his passengers to this request. But Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for UKI to ask for this information. Thats because the passengers, besides Mr G, 
were the only witnesses to the accident and UKI was entitled to validate the claim by 
checking Mr Gs account of the accident was accurate. 
I know Mr G felt UKI was unhelpful during this time; not really answering his questions about 
the claim progressing and requesting he only speak to one advisor. But I think UKI did 
adequately explain that it was seeking to validate his claim and repairs couldnt progress 
until that was done. And keeping a single point of contact on a claim, especially where 
enquiries are ongoing, can be important.
Overall Im not persuaded that UKI did anything wrong or failed Mr G in the way it handled 
his claim up to 22 December 2020. I cant look at anything that happened after this time, or 
the claims decision UKI made in March 2021. If Mr G is unhappy with that decision then he 
will need to make a further complaint. 
hire car
Mr Gs policy says that it will provide him with a hire car for 21 days. I appreciate that Mr G 
feels he didnt have access to a hire car until 10 October 2020, so the 21 day time period 
referred to in the policy should begin from that time. I also understand that Mr G thinks that 
because he then made a further request for a hire car on 30 October 2020, UKI should have 
given him one as the date of his request was within 21 days of (what he sees as) the original 
supply date. But that is not how the policy works.
The policy wording doesnt rely on what date the policyholder requests a hire car being 
supplied. Rather, the policy entitles Mr G to 21 days in a row of provision of a hire car. 
Here, Mr G could have received that entitlement, as he was provided a hire car by UKI on 
7 October 2020, which it was happy for him to use whilst it began considering his claim. 
However, Mr G chose to relinquish that entitlement on 19 October 2020 by returning the hire 
car. It seems this was because he wasnt happy with the terms of the agreement hed been 
asked to sign in order to use the car. But that was his choice and if he hadn't have given up 
the hire car he could have kept it for the full 21 days he was entitled to. Whilst he then asked 
for re-supply on 30 October, UKI felt he was outside of the 21 day period allowed for by the 
policy. In all of the circumstances here, I think UKIs refusal to further provide a hire car to 
Mr G was fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman