DRN-2037809
The complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by phone in 2008. The sale took 
place around two weeks after Mrs G opened the credit card account. The policy gave her 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And it included some life insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, so on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Barclays sold PPI at the time. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs G applied for a credit card online in 2008, but she didnt take out PPI at that time. The 
bank says it was when Mrs G called in two week later that she agreed to take it out. Mrs G 
disagrees saying she didnt call, and also Barclays told her it didnt know how or where the 
PPI was sold in its final response letter. Barclays doesnt have a call recording of the sale 
but thats not unreasonable given how long ago it was. It has however sent us the systems 
records showing PPI the date was added to the account. And Barclays has confirmed it no 
longer carried out outbound PPI sales calls in 2008, so I think its most likely the PPI was 
sold to Mrs G when she called the bank. I can understand she might not remember this 
given how long ago it was. 
Ive looked at the sales script Barclays says it used at the time. I think this made clear the 
PPI was optional and it asked customers if they wanted to go ahead. And I havent found 
enough evidence to conclude the adviser didnt follow the standard sales process. In 
addition, as Mrs G hadnt taken out PPI at the time she applied for her credit card online I 
think she wouldve been known it was a separate, optional product. Overall, I think its most 
likely Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs G agreed to take it out. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check if it was suitable for her. I think it 
was based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs G was entitled to 
some sick pay from her employer, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for 
each successful accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 
months redundancy cover. Mrs G said her parents would have helped but thats not suitable 
alternative protection, its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs G if she was sick, had an accident or lost her 
job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs G wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman