DRN-3116177
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that MBNA Limited gave him incorrect information about the monthly 
interest amount he would pay on a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr M called MBNA and asked for information on how much interest he would pay if he 
accepted an offer for a balance transfer of £20,000 with a rate of 3.9% interest for 36 
months. MBNA told Mr M that the interest would be roughly £6.50 per month, which was 
incorrect. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
MBNA looked at this complaint. They agreed that incorrect information had been given to   
Mr M and made a payment of £50 to Mr M as compensation for this. Mr M wasnt satisfied 
with the amount of compensation offered, so MBNA agreed to pay a further £50 to Mr M so 
that the total amount of compensation paid was £100.
Mr M still didnt think that MBNAs offer went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint but they felt that the £100 
compensation that MBNA had already paid to Mr M was fair and reasonable resolution, so 
they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation where Mr M spoke with MBNA and 
asked about the monthly interest amount that would be due should he transfer £20,000 to 
MBNA to take advantage of an offer of 3.9% interest over 36 months.
I can appreciate that Mr M feels that he called MBNA in order to get a clear understanding of 
how much interest he would have to pay, but its notable from the listening to the telephone 
call that MBNAs advisor explains to Mr M on numerous occasions during the call that the 
interest calculations they were doing for Mr M were only rough estimates.
Indeed, the MBNA agent specifically and clearly stated during the call that she wasnt a 
financial advisor and that if Mr M wanted confirmation of the interest amount that he would 
need to seek professional financial advice  which she herself couldnt provide.
Furthermore, its also evident from listening to the call that the agent to whom Mr M spoke 
was talking Mr M through the calculation that she was making. This includes that the agent 
calculated the monthly interest that would be due on a £20,000 balance as being 3.9% of 
£20,000 divided by twelve months. This equates to £780 divided by twelve, which equals 
£65 per month. 
Unfortunately, the advisor that Mr M spoke with reported the final figure as being £6.50 per 
month, and not £65. But I dont feel that because the advisor told Mr M this incorrect amount 
that MBNA should be expected to honour that amount, and this is because I feel that this 
calculation could have been undertaken by Mr M himself, and I also feel that it should have 
been apparent to Mr M that twelve monthly instances of £6.50, which equals £78, doesnt 
equate to 3.9% of £20,000.
Ultimately, I feel that it was Mr Ms responsibility to have understood the interest that he 
would be charged here, and this is especially so given the repeated explanations provided 
by the MBNA agent to whom he spoke that the calculations were rough estimates only and 
the further recommendation made by the agent that Mr M seek professional financial advice 
if he wanted qualified confirmation of the interest amount he would have to pay.
As such, I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to expect MBNA to honour the £6.50 
per month interest figure that Mr M was incorrectly told, and Im satisfied that MBNAs 
confirming to Mr M that his account would continue to attract the stated 3.9% interest over 
the 36 month period hasnt resulted in an unfair outcome here.
In their response to Mr Ms complaint, MBNA acknowledged that they had given incorrect 
information to Mr M and made compensation payments to him totalling £100. This feels fair 
to me, and I dont feel that any further compensation beyond this amount is warranted.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response to Mr Ms complaint that MBNA have 
already made does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what took place. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing MBNA to take any 
further action at this time. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman