DRN-1645376
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because of the delays and lack of 
communication he's experienced in relation to a claim he made in 2018.
What happened
Mr H and his wife went on a cruise in January 2018. He was taken ill and was diagnosed 
with abdominal and pelvic pain. He had tests carried out by medical staff on board, and he 
paid for the cost of his treatment. When Mr H returned to the UK, he contacted UKI to make 
a claim. Unhappy with how UKI was dealing with the claim, Mr H made a complaint. UKI 
issued a final response in October 2018 but as Mr H was still experiencing issues with how 
the claim was being handled, he brought the complaint to this service. We looked at the 
issues up until the point the final response of October 2018 and the complaint was dealt 
with. And, in agreement with both parties, this complaint was set up to deal with the delays in 
paying the claim and the lack of communication since October 2018. UKI also agreed to 
settle Mr H's claim in February 2019.
UKI issued a final response on this complaint in January 2020. It apologised for the delays in 
settling Mr H's claim. It said the claim was supposed to have been settled in February 2019 
as all outstanding documents had been returned by Mr H by this point. However, there was 
an error as confirmation to make the payment hadn't been passed to the team processing 
this. As such, UKI made a payment to Mr H of £643.05, which includes 8% simple interest 
from February 2019. Additionally, UKI made a compensation payment of £600 for the delays 
caused.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said UKI accepted it should have made the 
payment to Mr H in February 2019 and apologised. With that in mind and looking at 
everything that happened, she thought the offer made by UKI, in recognition of its failings, 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H didn't accept the investigator's assessment and asked for the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. So it's been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide here is whether I think the offer made by UKI  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see that Mr H has experienced considerable delays in UKI settling the claim. UKI had 
all the information from Mr H in February 2019 and was in a position to settle his claim at 
that point. However, it's only recently made the payment to Mr H. The fair approach to put 
this right would therefore  be for UKI to make the payment and add interest on that payment. I can see it has done this in making the payment of £643.05. I'm therefore satisfied 
that UKI has taken the right approach in this regard. 
In terms of the compensation payment of £600 UKI has made to Mr H, I also think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I acknowledge Mr H's frustration and 
appreciate the claim process has been drawn out and that it took time for UKI to eventually 
settle the claim. 
Overall, however, having reviewed everything, I think the payment of £643.05 and the 
compensation offer of £600 is fair and reasonable based on everything that's happened. As 
such, I don't think UKI needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman