DRN-2889800
The complaint
Mrs N complains that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She would like to now reject 
the car.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs N entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
for a used car. The car was five years old and had a mileage of 69,000. Mrs N collected 
the car at the start of February 2020.
Mrs N says that within a very short space of time a warning light showing transmission 
malfunction illuminated on the dashboard. The car was returned to the dealership and 
Mrs N also told it that the stop/start wasnt functioning nor was the cigarette lighter.
The car was returned after the repairs had been carried out and the gearbox checked. Mrs 
N says about one month later the same warning light illuminated again. Mrs N says the 
light would come on intermittently and mainly in the morning when the engine was cold. In 
June 2020 she decided to take the car to a third-party garage for the car to be inspected.
The third-party garage provided Mrs N with a short report as to its findings. This report 
said that the car had been found to have a clutch oil sensor fault stored and that to 
remove the transmission and replace the clutch assembly which was possibly causing the 
fault, together with associate items, would cost around £2,400 plus VAT to fix.
Mrs N complained to MotoNovo and said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and 
the dealership had failed to repair it. MotoNovo arranged for the car to be 
independently inspected.
The independent engineer reported that the car had started straight away with no 
warning lights on the dashboard. They had then taken it for a 12-mile test drive and 
driven at a variety of speeds. The car had functioned as expected in sport, economy and 
normal drive modes. The engineer said that no faults could be found with the car and on 
a diagnostic check only a stored fault for transmission oil temperature sensor 1 has a 
malfunction was found. They said this wasnt a current fault and may indicate a 
previous defect not cleared following repairs. The engineer also said there was no 
evidence of a previous failed repair.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint, it said there wasnt evidence the car 
had a current fault. Mrs N disagreed with MotoNovos view and complained to this 
service.
During this services investigation Mrs N took the car to be inspected by a manufacturer 
approved garage. This inspection took place in January 2021 and the mileage at that 
time was around 78,000. The garage reported that following a diagnostic check a fault 
had been found with the gearbox oil temperature sensor and that the car required a new 
gearbox control unit. It estimated the cost of repairs was £1,155.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld and that she 
was entitled to reject the car, have her deposit returned and receive £150 
compensation for having to deal with the faulty car.
Our investigator said that on the evidence she was satisfied there had been a fault with 
the car which had been present from the point of sale. Mrs N had provided evidence via 
photos that the warning message was appearing on the dashboard and had been from a 
very short time after she had taken possession of the car. Although the independent 
engineer had said this been a stored fault, the evidence of the manufacturer approved 
garage had confirmed this was actually a current fault.
MotoNovo disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said this third report didnt show 
the fault had been present since the point of sale and weight should still be given to the 
findings of the independent engineer and to the amount of time and mileage driven since 
the agreements inception. MotoNovo also said that a stored fault code had no adverse 
impact on the car and so would not affect the quality of the car at the point of sale.
As MotoNovo disagreed the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
along the following lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car hadnt been new, being around five years old and with a mileage of 
69,000. I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
have expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair over time since 
components of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, 
unlike a new car, there wouldnt have been an expectation that the car was fault free.
Mrs N had experienced an issue with the car very shortly after acquiring it when the 
warning light for a transmission malfunction had illuminated. She had returned the car to 
the dealership who repaired an issue with the stop/start and checked the gearbox. There 
were no further problems with the car for around a month after its return, but the same 
warning light then came back on. So, in June the car had been first checked by a third-
party garage at Mrs Ns request and then by an independent engineer at the request of 
MotoNovo. By this time the car had been driven for a further 4,000 miles.
Id see that the third-party garage was asked to investigate the warning light and that the 
car had poor deceleration. It had found that there were a number of stored faults 
including one for the oil temperature sensor. The invoice didnt explain why the gearbox 
required repair such as defective parts being found other than the stored code. It also 
didnt set out whether the car was test driven and found to have an issue with changing 
gears.
So, this invoice/report was in contrast with the findings of the independent engineer who had taken the car out and driven it a variety of speeds testing the way it changed gear. Id 
seen that the independent engineer had been unable to find any fault with the car. They 
had then run a diagnostic test and found the same fault code as the third-party garage 
had in respect of the sensor. However, the independent engineer had said this was a 
stored and not current fault and was likely to reflect a past fault that hadnt been cleared.
Looking at the results of the two inspections in June 2020 I thought it was reasonable to 
say there wasnt sufficient information to find that the car had a fault other than there had 
been a past fault code that hadnt been cleared. And as the car wasnt new, I thought it 
was fair to have assumed it would have had some past repair and maintenance work 
undertaken. A stored and uncleared fault code didnt impact on the car and the way it 
drove so I didnt think this alone would make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
In January 2021 Mrs N had taken the car to be investigated by a garage approved by the 
cars manufacturer. This garage had found a fault with the temperature sensor and that, 
on checking further, found the car had needed a new gearbox control unit. Id seen that 
this fault had been found around one year after Mrs N had acquired the car and after she 
had driven a total of 9,000 miles in it. Id seen that when this garage was asked to 
investigate the car Mrs N didnt appear to have raised concerns about noises the car was 
making or that the car was having difficulty with gear changes when driving.
MotoNovo said there wasnt evidence that the fault with the gearbox control unit was 
present from the point of sale and I agreed with that view. I appreciated the car has 
repeatedly shown the fault code for the clutch oil temperature sensor, but in light of the 
findings of the independent engineer, I thought it was more likely than not that this was a 
stored and not a current fault at that time. If the warning light had been referring to a 
current fault, then I didnt think Mrs N would have been able to drive the car for nearly 12 
months and cover 9,000 miles in it. I thought if this type of fault had been present at the 
point of sale then it would have been found sooner due to the damage that would have 
been caused by using the car. An issue with a gearbox was likely to have a serious impact 
on the cars engine if it had been repeatedly been used.
The car was six years old with a mileage of around 78,000 when the fault had been 
found, and I thought a reasonable person would have expected maintenance and 
repairs to arise at that point. The gearbox is a component that suffers from wear and 
tear so it wouldnt be expected to last indefinitely. I didnt think I could reasonably say 
the car hadnt been durable because this fault had now occurred.
Looking at the evidence, and for the reasons given above, I thought the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. The only issue it had was an uncleared fault code. 
I thought it was more likely than not that the subsequent issue with the gearbox control 
unit has arisen through wear and tear. And so, I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint.
Neither party has asked me to reconsider the findings I have made in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even though neither party asked me to review any part of my provisional decision I have 
looked again at the evidence and my conclusions. And I havent changed my view.I still think that at the point of supply this car was of satisfactory quality and the only issue it 
had was an uncleared fault code that had no impact on the driveability of the car. The 
subsequent issue with the gearbox has arisen through wear and tear and wasnt present or 
developing when Mrs N acquired the car.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs N, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman