DRN-4019207
The complaint
Miss T and Mr W complain QIC Europe Ltd unfairly refused to repair subsidence related 
damage to their home. 
What happened
Miss T and Mr W noticed internal and external cracks to their home. In November 2020 they 
made a subsidence claim against their QIC home insurance policy. QIC instructed a 
surveyor, arborist, and drainage company. Various trees were thought to be a possible 
cause. These were removed. The propertys drains were inspected and various repairs 
made. QICs surveyor, having considered various reports, was of the opinion there wasnt 
any subsidence damage to the property. So QIC refused to cover repairs of various cracks 
and damage.
Miss T and Mr W didnt accept that. In September 2022 QIC responded to a complaint. With 
reference to its surveyors assessment it said all internal and external damage is likely the 
result of thermal cycling rather than subsidence or any other cause covered by their policy. 
So it continued to refuse to repair the damage to their home. 
Miss T and Mr W werent satisfied so came to this service. They dont accept the cracks are 
the result of thermal cycling. They feel QICs ignored their evidence of ongoing subsidence. 
As a resolution they would like it to undertake monitoring for any ongoing subsidence and 
repair the damage to their home.  
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded that cracks were the result of thermal cycling rather than 
subsidence. So she recommended QIC carry out monitoring of the property for any ongoing 
movement. She said it should carry out some recommended, but unfulfilled, drainage work.  
She also felt QIC should pay £200 compensation for unfairly declining Miss T and Mr Ws 
claim. 
Miss T and Mr W accepted that outcome. QIC didnt so the complaint was passed to me. It 
said it had already completed a CCTV survey and repairs to the drains. It didnt accept there 
was likely to be ongoing subsidence so didnt agree to the monitoring.  
I wrote to Miss T and Mr W and QIC to explain I felt the available evidence to be 
inconclusive. I said I cant reasonably say there is subsidence damage, but felt there was 
enough to indicate possible ongoing movement. So I said I felt a fair compromise would be 
for QIC to monitor the property for 12 months. 
I explained my position was partly influenced by information provided by Miss T and Mr W 
that hadnt been shared with QIC. This included their account of more recently discovered 
cracks and report of their contractors opinion that drainage issues are causing a support 
pillar to sink. I also provided photos of the property, from about seven months after QICs 
surveyors assessment. I said they appear to show additional, internal and external, 
cracking. 
Miss T and Mr W provided some further information about ongoing movement that I discuss 
in the provisional decision section below. QIC still didnt accept monitoring as necessary. It 
said all potential causes of subsidence had been rectified or ruled out. It instead suggested it 
instruct a surveyor to inspect damage, to the bathroom, that it hadnt previously been made 
aware of. It said if it was found to be consistent with subsidence it would cover repairs. 
I then issued a provisional decision. A its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive 
copied it in below. In it I explained why I now intended to require QIC to arrange a wider 
inspection than it had proposed - but not to undertake monitoring. I also invited Miss T and 
Mr W and QIC to provide any further information they would like me to consider before 
issuing this final decision. 
QIC responded to accept my proposal. Miss T and Mr W provided various comments. Ive 
addressed those below.    
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Miss T and Mr W and QIC have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
QICs pointed out that the drainage work recommended by the Investigator has 
already taken place. Having looked at various drainage reports I can see thats 
correct.  
Miss T and Mr W have passed on the opinion of their own contractor. They say he 
felt QICs drainage contractor should have made additional repairs. Ive asked for 
something from Miss T and Mr Ws contractor to support their account of his thoughts 
 like a report or phone call. But as I havent been provided with anything I cant give 
much weight to his reported opinion. 
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly say there is any outstanding 
drainage work. So I dont intend to require QIC to undertake any further inspections 
or repairs of the drains. 
I now dont intend to require QIC to undertake further monitoring of the property. My 
change of position on this is mainly based on Miss Ts recent testimony. She 
explained that the property no longer seems to be moving. She said she feels the 
drainage repairs and tree removal had solved the problem. 
Miss T and Mr W would still, for their own reassurance, like monitoring to take place. 
I understand their position. However, I cant fairly require QIC to cover the costs of 
monitoring unless theres reasonable grounds to suspect ongoing movement. I now 
cant say there is.   
Ive considered the damage, internal and external cracks, that Miss T and Mr W feel 
is subsidence related. QICs surveyor, having undertaken a desk top assessment of 
the available evidence feels it minor, old and of no structural significance  and 
ultimately not subsidence related. Ive seen the various photos and considered the timeline of development of the 
damage. I accept its possible that it is subsidence related  particularly with the 
reported presence of tree roots and problems with the drainage. But Miss T and 
Mr W havent provided anything, like a surveyors report or other expert opinion, to 
support their position that the damage is subsidence related.
But ultimately, considering the expert opinion that is available, there isnt currently 
enough for me to say the damage to their home is most likely subsidence related. So 
I dont intend to direct QIC to repair the various areas of damage. 
However, I do feel theres enough to indicate the possibility of subsidence damage. 
So I intend to require QIC to undertake a further inspection of all the damage. It 
offered, with the drainage defects at the rear of the property in mind, to inspect the 
bathroom and repair any damage it considers consistent with subsidence. Thats a 
reasonable offer. But a full assessment of all the damage, Miss T and Mr W feel is 
subsidence related, will provide a second opinion at a likely moderate additional cost. 
So QIC will need to instruct a surveyor, or other suitably qualified professional, to 
inspect the property. To ensure a second opinion it shouldnt appoint the firm or 
individual who provided the July 2022 assessment. With sight of the various existing 
reports the new surveyor should reconsider all the damage and any the surveyor 
feels likely to be subsidence related should be reinstated by QIC.        
Our Investigator recommended QIC pay Miss T and Mr W some compensation. She 
felt that was appropriate as she was of the opinion it had unfairly declined their claim. 
Whilst I think it will be reasonable for the damage to be reconsidered, I havent found 
that QIC has unfairly refused to repair any subsidence related damage. So it follows 
that I dont intend to require it to pay any compensation.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T and Mr W said they would like the damage assessed as proposed. They requested a 
site visit rather than just a desk top review. I agree a physical inspection would be 
appropriate. I think QICs original proposal involved one. However, for clarity  the 
assessment should include a physical inspection of the property. 
Miss T and Mr W have provided comments about the various areas of damage and how 
these have been considered or overlooked by QIC. The new surveyor should be made 
aware of all the damage they would like considered as part of the assessment. So they 
should be given an opportunity to set this out to the surveyor at, or ahead of, the visit to the 
property.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require QIC Europe Limited to appoint a new surveyor (or 
other suitably qualified expert) to physically inspect all the reported damage and to reinstate 
any they (the surveyor) consider likely be subsidence related.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 Daniel Martin
Ombudsman