DRN-2197334
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C had her buildings and contents insurance through Triton. She received a renewal 
quote from Triton in March 2019 which she paid in full to ensure her cover remained in 
place. The amount paid was £402.24.
In July 2019 Mrs C had her house re-valued and told Triton of the change required to her 
policy. Triton charged Mrs C an additional £67.77 and issued her with an amended policy 
schedule to reflect the change.  
In March 2020 Mrs C began making enquiries with Triton about the upcoming policy 
renewal. She was unable to speak to anyone on the phone and she was unable to leave a 
message. This caused Mrs C some concern, so she called the insurer shown on her policy 
documents. The insurer told Mrs C that theyd stopped trading with Triton in January 2019, 
so her renewal quote in March 2019 should never have been offered to her by Triton. They 
urged Mrs C to get in touch with Triton to resolve things. 
Mrs C raised a complaint with Triton in March 2020. But she didnt hear anything from Triton 
and she never received her money back. So, she raised a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs C. He asked Triton to refund the premiums totalling £470.01, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs C has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs C paid Triton before her policy renewed every year to ensure her policy remained active. 
And, once she was aware that she didnt have any insurance cover in force, she made sure 
she sought cover with an alternative insurer. 
Mrs Cs original insurer cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide 
Mrs C with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt 
have offered Mrs C any insurance cover with the insurer in March 2019. And Triton shouldnt 
have taken the additional payment from Mrs C in July 2019 to increase the value of her 
house. Triton should have refunded the money Mrs C paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premiums paid by Mrs C. And because 
Mrs C has been without this money, Triton should pay interest on the payments at 8% 
simple. This interest should be calculated from the date the payments were made up to the 
date Triton refund it. 
Mrs C has also shown that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, 
and she wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls were returned. Because of 
this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs C £100 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs C her premium of £402.24 for renewing the policy in March 2019;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mrs C paid for her 
insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs C the additional premium of £67.77 for increasing the sum insured of her 
house in July 2019;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mrs C paid to adjust her 
policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman