DRN-3386439
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly marked adverse credit 
information on their credit files.
What happened
Mr H says following a change of employment in mid-June 2018 his payday date moved to 
the last working day of the month. Mr H says he contacted Lloyds to ask if his mortgage 
payment date could be amended to reflect that, but he was told by Lloyds it could only 
amend the payment date if he paid an extra payment that month. Mr H says he didnt have 
the funds available to do that, so he was left with no other option going forward, than to allow 
the direct debit for the mortgage payment to be returned unpaid each month and then make 
up the payment a few days later. 
Mr H and Mrs H says they never missed a mortgage payment and their mortgage account 
was never in arrears. Mr H and Mrs H says they recently discovered that their credit rating 
had deteriorated and on checking this learned that Lloyds had recorded missed payments on 
their credit files every month for the previous three years. Mr H and Mrs H says Lloyds never 
gave them any other option at the time it was told of his change of payday date, other than to 
pay the mortgage payments after they had been missed. 
Mr H and Mrs H says Lloyds shouldnt have marked their credit files to suggest they had 
regularly missed payments on their mortgage when their mortgage account had never been 
in arrears. Mr H and Mrs H says Lloyds actions in recording the adverse information on their 
credit files has prevented them securing finance elsewhere. Mr H and Mrs H want Lloyds to 
remove the missed payment markers from their credit files, agree to change the date of their 
mortgage payments as they originally asked and to pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset this has caused them. 
Lloyds says they havent done anything wrong here, and at the time Mr H requested the 
change of mortgage date it wasnt possible as it wasnt within the scope of its policy at that 
time. Lloyds says the terms and conditions of Mr Hs and Mrs Hs mortgage also makes clear 
that the payment date cant be any later than the 28th day in any one month. Lloyds also 
says it wasnt able to provide a payment holiday to Mr H and Mrs H as they had previously 
benefited from this in March 2016 and this couldnt be repeated within a three-year time 
span. Lloyds says they did make Mr H and Mrs H aware in writing of the missed mortgage 
payments and the impact this may have on their credit file. 
Lloyds says it has correctly recorded the missed payments on Mr Hs and Mrs Hs credit file 
to accurately reflect what happened, as it is obliged to do.
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Lloyds had acted within both its policy and the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage agreement at that time. The investigator says Lloyds accurately reflected the fact 
Mr H and Mrs H had missed their due monthly mortgage payments on their credit files even 
though these were made at a later date. The Investigator says even though these delayed 
payments meant Mr H and Mrs H werent in arrears, it didnt negate the fact the payments 
had been missed. 
Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr H and Mrs H when Lloyds were unable 
to amend their contractual monthly mortgage payment date, to match Mr Hs new payday 
date, which resulted in missed payments being recorded on their credit files. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted reasonably when it registered 
numerous missed mortgage payments on Mr Hs and Mrs Hs credit files. 
Mr Hs and Mrs Hs complaint centres around the fact Lloyds were unwilling to amend their 
contractual mortgage payment (CMP) date to match Mr Hs new payday date, this resulted in 
missed payments being registered on their credit files. Mr H and Mrs H make the point that 
Lloyds only solution to this issue was for them to make two payments in one month, to allow 
it to extend the CMP date, but that wasnt affordable at the time. 
I understand the points Mr H and Mrs H have made here, but its fair to say they do have a 
responsibility to make the CMP on time, in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
agreement they signed. 
Ive also been provided with evidence from Lloyds to show its policy at that time meant it was 
unable to amend the CMP date beyond the 28th day of the month. In addition, Lloyds policy 
at that time also stipulated that a payment holiday, which may have helped here, couldnt be 
granted twice within a three-year period, given Mr H and Mrs H took a payment holiday in 
March 2016. Lloyds have also provided copy letters sent in February 2020 and September 
2020 confirming Mr H and Mrs H were made aware they had missed their CMP, and their 
credit files may be affected. 
Its fair to say Lloyds had acted in line with its policy and the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage agreement Mr H and Mrs H had signed. But what Im left to consider is whether or 
not its fair and reasonable, knowing Mr Hs payday date had changed, to have Mr Hs and 
Mrs Hs credit files affected for the remaining term of their mortgage - simply because Lloyds 
policy on requests for a further short term payment holiday, werent allowable at that time. 
I understand that Lloyds have changed its policy on that now and this could be an option for 
Mr H and Mrs H to consider. But here from the information I have seen, Lloyds were aware 
that Mr H and Mrs H werent in a financial position to make two CMPs in one go. With that in 
mind I would have expected Lloyds to have at least provided some alternative suggestions, 
or at the very least to have made Mr H and Mrs H aware of the impact of them missing the 
CMP due date on their credit file, at the time the issue was first raised but I cant see it did 
that. I say this because its reasonable to think Mr H and Mrs H knowing the impact this 
course of action would have on their credit file, may have considered other options available 
to them. Although Mr H and Mrs H were written to by Lloyds explaining the implications of the missed 
CMPs, this was approaching two years from the initial discussions held, by which time their 
credit file had already been affected by it. 
So while Lloyds followed its policy and procedures at that time, I dont feel Mr Hs and Mrs 
Hs credit file should be impacted in the way it was, simply because of them not meeting 
Lloyds criteria and process for the number of payment holidays they could apply for at that 
time. The credit file I have seen indicates to any third party looking at it, that Mr H and Mrs H 
were continually unable to meet their CMPs. But I dont think that fairly reflects the whole 
situation here, as in reality Mr H and Mrs H only wanted to defer the CMP for a few days in 
line with Mr Hs new payday date. But here, Lloyds werent able to accommodate that 
request and I feel they could have done more at that time in 2018, to have helped Mr H by 
allowing a further one month payment holiday to avoid a permanent arrears position on the 
mortgage account going forward. 
So I am satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome here, while acknowledging Lloyds acted in 
line with its process at the time, is to amend Mr Hs and Mrs Hs credit files to show an initial 
payment arrangement for the month of July 2018 and the subsequent CMPs being made on 
time  that would in my mind be a fairer reflection of the actual position here. 
I cant say that Lloyds deliberately went out of its way to create this situation, but knowing 
what we know now, I am satisfied this is the right course of action. I also propose Lloyds 
should now agree to change the monthly payment date to suit Mr H and Mrs H as they 
originally requested, as I understand that is now something it can accommodate. That said I 
dont propose any other redress here, as its reasonable to say Mr H and Mrs H also had a 
part to play in looking for alternative solutions over this long period of time.
While this may not be the outcome either party were hoping for, I am satisfied this is a fair 
way forward here. 
Both Mr H and Mrs H and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision, so the case has 
been passed back to me make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr H and Mrs H and Lloyds until 4 April 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, but Lloyds pointed out it was 
unable to amend the direct debit date to the 29, 30 or 31 of the month, so it offered two 
options for Mr H and Mrs H to consider. The first option was to continue to make a payment 
each month by another method other than direct debit, ensuring it was made on time and in 
full. Or secondly, it would agree a one-month payment holiday so that the CMP due date 
could change for the following month. 
Lloyds wanted to make clear that by choosing this second option Mr H and Mrs H should be 
aware the suspended payment and interest is still being added, and therefore the mortgage 
account balance will increase. Also, the total amount repaid at the end of the mortgage may 
also increase.
After these options were put to Mr H and Mrs H they chose to take the second option. 
So while not changing the outcome of my provisional decision, I am satisfied the option 
agreed by both parties is a sensible way forward here, and I will leave it with Mr H and Mrs H to contact Lloyds to discuss the future dates for the CMPs going forward. 
Putting things right
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to amend Mr Hs and Mrs Hs credit file to show a payment 
arrangement for the month of July 2018 and record that the subsequent payments were 
made in full and on time up to date of settlement. Additionally, as agreed I instruct Lloyds 
Bank plc to put in place a one-month payment holiday on Mr Hs and Mrs Hs mortgage 
account, without this having any adverse markers on their credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to amend Mr Hs and Mrs Hs credit file to show a payment 
arrangement for the month of July 2018 and record that the subsequent payments were 
made in full and on time up to date of settlement. Additionally, as agreed I instruct Lloyds 
Bank plc to put in place a one-month payment holiday on Mr Hs and Mrs Hs mortgage 
account, without this having any adverse markers on their credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman