DRN-4406760
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application and went on to increase the credit limit. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr I applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. In his application, Mr I said he 
was employed with an income of £28,000. Barclaycard carried out a credit search and found 
Mr I had unsecured credit, including a hire purchase agreement and credit cards. 
Barclaycard applied its lending criteria to Mr Is application and used regular outgoings of 
£649 a month. Barclaycard says it found Mr I had sufficient disposable income to maintain a 
credit card and approved an initial credit limit of £50. Around three weeks later, the credit 
limit was increased to £400. 
Mr I used the credit card, incurring some missed payments over time. The balance was 
repaid in January 2023. 
Earlier this year, representatives acting on Mr Is behalf complained that Barclaycard had 
lent irresponsibly. Barclaycard issued a final response and explained it had applied its 
lending criteria to Mr Is application before approving it and didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Is case. They thought Barclaycard had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks during the application and wasnt persuaded it had 
lent irresponsibly so didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. Mr Is representatives asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Is complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Barclaycard needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Mr I could afford to repay what was being lent. These checks needed 
to be borrower focussed and could take into account things such as the amount of credit, the 
total sum repayable and the consumers financial circumstances. Theres no set list of checks 
a lender has to do. But lenders are required to have regard to the factors Ive mentioned 
above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
In the application, Mr I said he was employed with an income of £28,000 a year. Barclaycard 
carried out a credit search to get a picture of what Mr I owed and how much his repayments 
cost each month. Barclaycard has forwarded its application data and I can see it used a 
reasonable outgoings figure of £649 a month for his living costs, in addition to the credit card 
and hire purchase debt it found in his name. Barclays calculated Mr I had around £900 a 
month as disposable income once his regular outgoings were factored in. 
I note the application was initially approved with a credit limit of £50 but it was quickly 
increased to £400. I think the level and nature of checks Barclaycard completed were 
proportionate to the credit limit it went on to approve. I havent been persuaded it was 
unreasonable for Barclaycard to proceed with Mr Is application without requesting further 
evidence, like bank statements or evidence of his income. Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I 
havent been persuaded that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly in this case. 
As I havent found evidence to support that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly, Im not upholding 
Mr Is complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman