DRN-3558859
The complaint
Mr H complained to Black Horse Limited when he had problems with a car he acquired 
through a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Black Horse entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with Mr H in January 2020. He 
let the dealership know shortly afterwards that he had problems with the car. It was repaired 
at the dealerships expense, but Mr H still experienced issues with it and contacted the 
dealership in February. The car was scheduled for repair again in March but wasnt taken in 
for repair until June 2020 due to the general disruption caused by the pandemic. This time 
the dealership disputed some of the repair costs and Mr H complained to Black Horse in 
September 2020.
Black Horse upheld Mr Hs complaint because it agreed that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of delivery. It gave Mr H the choice of returning the car with 
compensation, or having the car repaired at its expense plus compensation. Mr H chose the 
latter and by January 2021 the car had been repaired and returned to him. However, Mr H 
wasnt happy with the level of compensation offered by Black Horse in its final response to 
him (in October 2020) and so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended that Black Horse 
increase its compensation amount. Black Horse accepted this recommendation but Mr H 
didnt wholly agree with it and asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that both parties are in agreement about what happened, and Black Horse 
has accepted that the car was faulty when supplied. So I wont set out in any more detail 
what has happened with the car but will focus on the disputed compensation. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint in September 2020 Black Horse offered to cover the cost of 
the outstanding repairs and pay him £1,074.70. This was made up of his monthly hire 
purchase payments of £152.60 for June to October 2020 inclusive, along with 8% 
compensatory interest, plus £300 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience the matter 
had caused him.
When Mr H brought his complaint to us he explained that he wanted Black Horse to 
reimburse him for the travel costs he incurred when he felt he couldnt use the car (March to 
May 2020) and for the time he was without it when it was in for repairs (June to December 
2020). Mr H also wanted a refund of his car insurance payments, compensation for the 
depreciation of the car when he couldnt drive it and a greater award for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator recommended that in addition to the compensation Black Horse offered, it 
should pay Mr H:
a) a refund of rental payments of £152.60 for the months of November and December 
2020; and
b) a refund of car insurance premiums he paid for June to December 2020 inclusive at 
£75.98 per month; and
c) a 10% refund of the payments made between 18 February 2020 and 10 June 2020
to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car because of the inherent quality
issues; and
d) 8% simple yearly interest to all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
The investigator didnt recommend that Black Horse reimburse any costs Mr H incurred in 
seeking alternative transport. This was because they had recommended that Mr H had some 
monthly payments returned for the time he didnt have the car (June to December 2020) and 
this refund could be used to offset costs that Mr H might have incurred to stay mobile. The 
investigator also pointed out that the mileage recorded during the cars MOT on 10 January 
2020 was 58,340, rising to 61,208 by 18 June 2020. They concluded that Mr H had some 
use of the car from January to June. 
Black Horse accepted these recommendations but Mr H didnt fully accept them. He said 
that he had a busy period in work in February and March 2020 and so had covered many 
miles in this time. He said that he didnt want to drive the car after it had been scheduled in 
for a service in March as he didnt think it was roadworthy given hed been having issues 
with the speedometer and the brakes, amongst others. Mr H explained that hed had to 
arrange alternative transport to get to work and, due to a diagnosed condition, he had no 
alternative but to pay for taxis. 
Mr H said For the initial lockdown, between 20 March and 1 May 2021 while businesses 
were closed including public transport and I was unable to get a hire car, the taxi receipts 
should still be fully covered Between the months afterwards from 1 May until 31 
December, instead of refunding the taxi receipts, as a compromise, I will be willing to accept 
the price of the daily cost of a return 'peak' train fare between the months of 1 May 2020
until 31 December 2020. Mr H has provided taxi receipts of approximately £900 for the 
dates listed and has estimated a train travel refund of approximately £1,740 based on a daily 
return fare of £7.10.
Let me start by saying that I acknowledge Mr Hs strength of feeling regarding this matter 
and I am sorry that things have been so difficult for him. I want to reassure both parties that I 
have reviewed and carefully considered all the information available to me when making this 
decision. Having done so, I am not going to propose that Black Horse does anything beyond 
what our investigator proposed and it accepted. 
Refund of rental payments and insurance costs
The car in question was provided to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement. This meant 
Black Horse was the owner of the car until all the payments had been made and Mr H was in 
essence paying for the use of it. Mr H left the car in for repair on 10 June 2020. I understand 
that the dealership asked him to collect it until the parts it needed to carry out the repairs had 
been delivered. Mr H said he didnt feel safe driving the car and so the car remained with the 
dealership until Mr Hs complaint had been partly resolved with the car being repaired and 
returned to him. Mr H didnt have access to the car from 10 June 2020 to when it was returned to him and 
Black Horse has agreed to refund his hire purchase payments from June to December 2020 
inclusive. Following this logic, it seems to me that Mr H should also be compensated for any 
insurance payments he made, given he wasnt using the car and so didnt need financial 
protection in case something went wrong. 
Refund of alternative travel costs
Mr H says he couldnt use the car prior to June 2020 because he felt it wasnt roadworthy. 
He explained his concerns in a number of emails to Black Horse which hes shared with us 
and Ive reviewed. Ive set out below some examples of what Mr H said to the dealership in 
various emails:
On 24 March:
As from my previous emails my car has a long list of problems still after already been sent 
in for repairs. Although the car drives, I was told I could temporarily continue to drive the car 
as it was only the screen behind the steering that was the known problem at the time. 
However while driving the car I have found another list of problems with the car and the 
condition worsening. The brakes are now sporadically being even more less effective and I 
feel the car is now deemed dangerous to drive.
15 April:
I am currently driving to work in a car that is faulty and dangerous as you have not supplied 
me with a courtesy car If a breakdown, a crash or something else occurs while I have to 
drive the car to work, I put sole responsibility on yourselves and for you to accept any 
damages, payment or any liabilityThe car is also currently at higher risk of been broken 
into and/or stolen as the door handles are hanging off as previously described.
And also 15 April:
I appreciate someone giving me a call, but unfortunately that doesnt fix the problem. I still 
have to get to work and driving the in roadworthy car you provided is a danger not only to 
myself but to other drivers.
5 May:
Im still having all the same troubles with the car as previously mentioned and I still dont 
feel safe driving it while the brakes are faulty.
6 June: 
I would like the car to be completely fixed of any problems (listed below), faults or advisories 
located while completing the work below, or known about faults and advisories, This also 
includes all the brakes replacing as per previous MOT advisories) A check of the gear box 
and clutch as its sometimes misses when switching to gear 5 or reverse Wheel bearings 
to be changed as it currently sounds as though 1 has goneThe radiator looking at as the 
car has been driving at a very hot temperature and also looks to be using a lot of water and 
oilThe screen behind the steering wheel has completely goneThe service light is 
displaying againThe brakes work sporadically and arent very effective at times, these all 
need replacing as this is very dangerousThe steering in the car is very light and feels like 
the car is going to slide at any point when the smallest amount of power is applied into the 
corners. This also shows when driving on the motorway or above 60It was leaking some 
fluid, the 5th gear and reverse sometimes miss so I would also like the gearbox and clutch 
looking atThe drivers side door handle has nearly detached and the one the replaced has 
started to also come loose. The boot handle has also started to come looseThe car also 
loses power sometimes and feels like its going to cut outsPlease can you also look into 
the turbo as sometimes putting it into sport mode doesnt actually work.I appreciate that Mr H had strong concerns about the car until it went in for repair in June 
2020 but it seems to me from the above exchange that he continued to use it, even if he also 
made use of alternative transport. As mentioned, the mileage on the car had increased by 
almost 2,900 from January to June and, while I can see that the matter was clearly very 
stressful for Mr H, I cant conclude that he was unable to make use of the car prior to June. 
And so I am not going to ask Black Horse to make a further refund for this time period 
beyond what our investigator proposed and it accepted, namely 10% of rental costs to reflect 
Mr Hs loss of use or impaired use of the car. 
As our investigator explained, and I agree, refunding Mr Hs rental and insurance costs for 
the time he was without the car (June to December 2020) provides him with a level of refund 
per month which seems to me to be a fair amount with which to offset the costs of alternative 
transport. And so I am not going to suggest Black Horse needs to offer any further refund for 
this time period. 
Compensation for depreciation and distress and inconvenience 
Mr H requested we consider compensation to reflect the cars depreciation in 2020. Ive 
borne in mind that the car was over five years old when the agreement started, has been 
repaired since then and driven less than it might have been. Ive also considered that there 
was a general uplift in used car prices due to various impacts of the pandemic, and that this 
was a time of disruption for car markets. Altogether, I dont think compensation for 
depreciation is appropriate in this case.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Hs request for a larger payment for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused to him. We can consider awards to compensate for the 
practical and emotional impact a businesss mistake had, in addition to compensation for a 
financial loss. As set out on our website, an award of up to £300 might be fair where there 
have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to 
sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause 
either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment, or loss of expectation. 
I appreciate that Mr Hs experience lasted for most of 2020 but I have borne in mind that this 
was a year of disruption. I can see that there was much communication between Mr H and 
the dealership throughout March to June  the dealership told Mr H it had prioritised his 
repairs and it seems to me it booked the car in as soon as was possible. I also appreciate 
that there were further delays in sourcing the parts for the repairs, and that Mr H could have 
collected the car while the parts were being sourced but he chose not to. While I am 
sympathetic to Mr Hs concerns about the car, I can also see that the availability of car parts 
was likely to have been outside the dealerships control. And so in this case I think the award 
of £300 for distress and inconvenience reflects the circumstances of this case and is 
appropriate here. 
Putting things right
In summary, in order to put things right for Mr H, Black Horse offered to refund his monthly 
payments for June to October 2020 inclusive and pay him £300 compensation. It set out 
these figures and its calculations in its final response to him. 
In addition to the above, Black Horse needs to pay Mr H:
a) a refund of rental payments of £152.60 for the months of November and December 
2020; and
b) a refund of car insurance premiums he paid for June to December 2020 inclusive at 
£75.98 per month; andc) a 10% refund of the payments made between 18 February 2020 and 10 June 2020
to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car because of the inherent quality
issues; and
d) 8% simple yearly interest* to all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint about Black Horse 
Limited in part and require it to put things right for him as outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman