DRN-1705823
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened
Between January and August 2018 Sunny provided Mr W with nine instalment loans. When 
they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid by six monthly 
repayments and all the loans have been paid. 
Heres a table setting out further details of those loans:
loan start date date repaid amount total combined monthly repayment
1 04/01/2018 23/02/2018 £300 £91.50
2 26/01/2018 04/07/2018 £350 £203.32
3 23/02/2018 06/08/2018 £250 £195.15
4 07/04/2018 06/08/2018 £100 £226.14
5 09/05/2018 25/05/2018 £100 £256.97
6 30/05/2018 26/10/2018 £250 not considered
7 04/07/2018 26/10/2018 £200 not considered
8 06/08/2018 26/10/2018 £250 not considered
9 31/08/2018 29/09/2018 £50 not considered
 
Mr W said unaffordable loans from Sunny caused his debt to spiral and made his already 
poor financial situation worse. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought loans 5 through to 9 shouldnt 
have been lent to Mr W. 
Sunny disagreed so the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decisionHere are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked Mr W to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ws credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr W loans 1 - 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. Even taking into account 
the combined repayments on his loans, the amounts still looked comfortably affordable for 
Mr W. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for 
Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr W hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
1 - 4, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
When he asked for his fifth loan, I think Sunny shouldve been concerned that this wasnt 
affordable for Mr W. I say this because, when Mr W took out loan 5, he already had three 
loans outstanding with Sunny  loans 2, 3 and 4. 
I think Sunny shouldve realised this borrowing record was clearly at odds with what Mr W 
had said about his financial situation. He was repeatedly taking out additional loans in quick 
succession. He took out loan 5 around four months or so after hed first started borrowing 
from Sunny. Hed only repaid loan 1 at that stage - and hed taken out loan 3 the same day 
he did that. 
So, despite the fact that Sunny says it worked out that the loans shouldve been affordable 
for him,  I think there were clear indications that Mr W was having money problems when he 
asked for loan 5.
So I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5 to Mr W. I think it shouldve 
realised that this loan, and further loans, werent sustainable for Mr W.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W to see if there 
was a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Thats when Sunny shouldve realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
I think by loan 7 Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. I say this because:
by this point, Mr W had taken out seven loans over six months or so - during which 
time hed been continuously indebted to Sunny 
hed repaid loans 1, 2 and 5 early  but then hed quickly taken out new loans after 
when he paid loan 1, having loan 2 and loan 3 running meant Mr Ws indebtedness 
to Sunny was around twice what it had been at the start, just the previous month 
and loans 6 and 7 were both for significantly bigger amounts than loan 5 
I think Sunny shouldve realised that there wasnt any indication that Mr Ws finances 
had moved on from whatever situation had required his previous loans. It was 
unlikely he was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income  rather, it looked 
like he had an ongoing need for the money 
he wasnt making any real inroads into the overall amount he owed Sunny and it 
looked like he was having problems managing his money and wasnt using the loans 
for their intended purpose. 
 
I think that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Ws ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 In coming to this view, I've taken into account everything that Sunny has said, including 
comments sent in response to the adjudicator's view. But for the reasons I've explained, 
I dont agree that the fact Mr W has repaid these loans means that he was able to do so in a 
sustainable way. 
And just because the figures it relied on suggested the lending appeared to be affordable 
doesn't mean it was fair when the other considerations I've mentioned are also taken into 
account.
So Im planning on upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 9 and telling Sunny it 
should take steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W has accepted the provisional decision.
Sunny has acknowledged receipt but made no further comment on what I said in my 
provisional decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5,6,7,8,and 9 not including anything it has already refunded.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Pay Mr W the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
Remove any adverse information on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loans 5 and 6.
The number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. 
So all entries about loans 7 to 9 should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.Susan Webb
Ombudsman