DRN-3617440
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr D says that a past school friend introduced him to someone who traded in crypto 
currency. That person got access to his account and used it to move money. He says that 
this happened at a different financial business too and he had a letter about that business 
investigation. The CIFAS marker has led to his main bank account being closed and he 
wants this marker to be removed.
TSB said it hadnt made any mistake. It had received reports that fraudulent funds had been 
sent to Mr Ds account. The fraud department carried out a review and awaited contact from 
Mr D for any explanation. He didnt get in touch and so his account was closed and a CIFAS 
marker added.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She wrote to Mr D and tried 
to contact him by phone, but he wasnt known at the number hes given this service. She 
asked him to provide the letter from the other financial business and wanted to get a further 
explanation from Mr D about what happened. And for his information about three payments 
into his account on 23 July 2021 and another three on 25 July 2021 which totalled over 
£27,000. Mr D got in touch to say that he thought he had the letter but now had to go back to 
the other business for a copy. He didnt give any of the other information that had been 
requested. 
Our investigator said that as a result she couldnt put much weight on what hed said and so 
thought that the high bar for adding a marker had been met here. As a result, it was 
reasonable for TSB to decide to close his account. 
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigator the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr D has been asked several times now for information by our investigator. I 
appreciate from what hes said that the nature of his job means that he may have difficulty 
getting in contact at times. But he emailed this service on 24 June and 1 July 2022 and so 
Im satisfied hes aware of the information that would assist our investigation. Hes not asked 
for any extended time to provide this and I conclude that it is now fair for me to reach a final 
decision based on what is available.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, TSB needs to 
have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would 
support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that TSB received reports that high value payments into 
Mr Ds account as referred to by our investigator were reported as fraudulent by the 
sending banks. The money was quickly moved out from Mr Ds account and appeared to 
be sent to a crypto currency business. Mr D didnt provide any explanation to TSB before 
his account was closed. When he later complained he gave a similar explanation to the one 
he gave this service when he referred his complaint.
While I accept that its possible that Mr D was scammed into allowing his account to be 
used in this way he hasnt provided any evidence to support this. Or to show that his 
account was somehow taken over. Having balanced all the information I find it most likely 
that he was a witting participant in what happened and reasonably knew this money wasnt 
legitimate. His bank account was used to move fraudulently obtained funds.
TSB says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr D received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether TSB was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that TSB needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the 
police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe 
fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and the evidence TSB has provided, Im satisfied 
that TSB had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to TSB at the 
time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money in his account.
- TSB had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
I think TSB was entitled to make a commercial decision to close his account in these 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr D will be very disappointed by my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman