DRN-2482391
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent money to her irresponsibly when 
providing a personal loan. She is also unhappy with how it dealt with the loan while she was 
experiencing financial difficulties
What happened and my provisional findings
Miss S took out a loan with NatWest in October 2016. The loan was for £4,000 repayable
over two years. The monthly repayments were £210.96.
Miss S made the first monthly repayment in December 2016. For the three months after 
that, attempts to claim the monthly amount due were unsuccessful and returned unpaid.
In March 2017 Miss S informed NatWest she was experiencing financial difficulties and 
that a debt management company would be acting on her behalf. The debt management 
company put forward a repayment proposal to NatWest. NatWests notes show that this 
was accepted but repayment was not received. As a result, NatWests records indicate it 
wrote to Miss S saying it intended to default the account.
NatWests notes show that Miss S then made a repayment arrangement directly with it, in 
response to its notice of default, which it again accepted. The first payment under this 
arrangement was made but the second was missed. So, NatWest wrote to Miss S again to 
say it would default the account. NatWests notes indicate Miss S called to make a further 
arrangement after this letter was issued.
As a longer term arrangement wasnt agreed the account was transferred to NatWests 
recoveries department in September 2017, from which point no further interest was added 
to the balance.
Miss S complained to NatWest in 2019, saying it had acted irresponsibly when providing 
the loan. She said it hadnt sufficiently checked her finances when providing the loan as 
she was unemployed at the time and only receiving a small amount of unemployment 
benefits. She also complained that NatWest had not issued default notices to her.
NatWest said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the application had all been
completed online by Miss S. NatWest said shed indicated her income was £1,200 per
month. And using this, other information she provided and after carrying out a credit search,
her application had been accepted in good faith without a further review being required.
NatWest also said that it felt default notices were issued correctly.
Unhappy with NatWests response Miss S asked our service to look into her complaint. She
said the income figure used was incorrect and that she thought she mustve entered it in
error. And she said she didnt think the automated decision made by NatWest was correct
and that this couldnt have properly checked if the loan was affordable.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020, explaining that I intended to uphold 
Miss S complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why 
I thought this.
Miss S has said one of the key reasons she thinks that NatWest has made an error, and the
loan was unaffordable, is that it didnt do enough to verify the information she provided as
part of her application. She has said that she was unemployed at the point of applying for the
loan and only receiving an income of approximately £200, made up of benefits. And she has
said that the figure of £1,200, entered during her application, was done in error  which
NatWest wouldve realised had it done additional checks.
NatWest has provided us details of applications Miss S made for further loans in January
and March 2017  after this loan was taken out. And I can see that for the application in
March 2017 at least, Miss S listed an income of £1,200. NatWest has also provided us with
account notes relating to her loan, showing details of its communication with Miss S and the
debt management company that briefly represented her, after she fell into financial
difficulties. The initial repayment proposal from the debt management company also listed
an income of £1,200  indicating this was information Miss S provided to it. Based on this, it
looks like this same information about income, which Miss S says is incorrect, has been
provided by her on more than one occasion since the application for the loan that is the
subject of the complaint. And on balance I think it is unlikely this was provided in error on
multiple occasions.
That notwithstanding though, before agreeing to an application for credit, businesses need 
to make sure they lend in a responsible manner. To do this they are required to carry out 
appropriate checks. There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every 
instance. But the checks need to be proportionate to the application being made. These 
checks usually include an assessment of whether the person requesting credit can afford to 
make and sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation and other 
outgoings.
NatWest says that Miss S application was assessed automatically in line with its lending 
criteria, without a manual review. And it says this was done, and deemed acceptable, 
using the information Miss S provided in the application, as well as information it already 
held about her, and a review of her credit file.
NatWest is entitled to set its own processes in terms of how it looks at applications. These 
are a matter of its commercial judgement which our service cant interfere with. What I 
have to decide though is if I think, it has acted fairly and reasonably in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. Which means here, deciding whether I think the checks it 
carried out in relation to this application were sufficient, or if I think it shouldve done more.
NatWest has said it had no reason to think the information provided to it was incorrect. And 
because of this it didnt feel further checks were necessary when this application was made.
NatWest has provided the information used to consider the application  including the 
figures it used for Miss S regular expenditure. Ive also seen a copy of Miss S credit file  
showing the agreements she had with other lenders. Her credit file indicates that her 
outgoings were significantly higher than the figure NatWest used to assess the 
affordability of this loan. NatWest has said it carried out a review of Miss S credit file. But 
it hasnt given an explanation as to why this discrepancy was not picked up. And I think 
this discrepancy would in fact have given NatWest reason to question if the information 
provided to it was correct.So, based on what Ive seen, I dont agree with NatWest that there was no reason to 
question things further. And so, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can 
say the checks it carried out in respect of this application were sufficient.
Ive gone on to think about whether the loan wouldve still been approved if further checks 
had been done.
Miss S held two current accounts with NatWest at the point the application was made. So 
NatWest, had it carried out further checks, couldve quite easily checked her income. Ive 
reviewed statements for Miss S accounts and having done so they dont show a regular 
income of £1,200, as listed on the application  and the average amount credited to the 
account in the six months before the application is a lot lower than this figure. They show a 
salary being paid up until July 2016, but then it appears to stop. There are credits to both 
accounts after that, but I think it is relatively clear that these were unlikely to represent a 
salary. And I can see benefits were paid into Miss S account in September 2016  the 
description of which indicated that she was no longer working.
All of this information indicates that Miss S regular income was a lot lower than the figure 
NatWest used to assess the application for the loan and her ability to sustainably afford 
repayments. It also indicates Miss S was in fact not working at the point she applied. Had 
NatWest used the information available from the statements and the higher expenditure 
figure indicated by Miss S credit file, I dont think it wouldve approved the application for 
the loan, as it wouldve deemed it unaffordable. And I think this is supported by the fact
Miss S was only able to make one repayment successfully before falling into arrears.
In summary, I dont think NatWest did enough at the time of granting the loan to check that it 
was affordable to Miss S. And based on the information available, I dont think it was. So, I 
think NatWest has made mistakes when providing this loan.
Ive thought about what would be a fair way of addressing these errors.
Miss S has had the benefit of the money advanced under the loan. She has said at the 
current rate she is repaying the loan it will take a number of years for it to be repaid. But 
her financial situation could improve, which would allow the money to be repaid sooner. 
And as she has had the benefit of the funds, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable of me to 
ask NatWest to write this amount off. And I dont think it would be unreasonable for 
NatWest to keep how the principle balance is being repaid under review or for it, or its 
agents, to engage with Miss S about this  which might include it asking her to periodically 
provide updated information about her income and expenditure, to see what she can afford 
to repay.
I do though think Miss S shouldnt be held responsible for the costs associated with the loan
 the interest, and any charges, applied to it. Had the loan not been granted, as I think 
shouldve happened here, Miss S wouldnt have had to pay these amounts, so I dont think 
it is fair that she pay them now.
I also dont think any negative information should be recorded on Miss S credit file in 
respect of this loan  as without the errors by NatWest the loan wouldnt have existed.
Miss S has said that this matter has caused her a lot of stress. And I can understand why 
having this debt wouldve been distressing. I am though conscious that it seems, on 
balance, that some of the information she provided to NatWest when applying mayve been 
inaccurate  which contributed to the situation. So, in the circumstances Im not inclined to 
recommend that NatWest make a separate payment in respect of the upset caused.Turning to how NatWest handled matters while Miss S was in financial difficulty, based on 
what Ive seen I dont think it did anything wrong.
The notes that Ive been provided indicate that it engaged with Miss S and the debt 
management company temporarily representing her. I can see NatWest accepted 
repayment proposals from both  including one from Miss S for a nominal payment of £1 
per month for three months. It appears NatWest didnt initially suspend interest on the loan 
 but it isnt required to do so. This is one step a lender can take when dealing with 
financial difficulties, but it doesnt have to take this action. However, as Ive already 
indicated that interest should be refunded due to the errors with the lending decision, this is 
largely a moot point.
Miss S says NatWest made errors when issuing notices saying it intended to default the 
loan. But I dont think it did. The account statements Ive seen indicate the loan was over 
three months in arrears when the first notice was issued. So, I think at that point NatWest 
was entitled to take this action. And I think Miss S received the notices  as NatWests 
contact notes show that she called it within days of each notice being issued to discuss the 
letters and attempt to make an arrangement. So, it appears the notices were issued 
correctly at the time  although again, because of the issues with the lending decision I 
think the adverse information should be removed from Miss S credit file.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Miss S reiterated arguments she made to our investigator in November 2020 around why 
she felt NatWest had acted incorrectly. She said however if these arguments didnt change 
things, she was happy to accept the decision.
NatWest did not accept my provisional findings. It said when an application is made online 
this negates the necessity for further checks if the information submitted is accurate. And it 
said it didnt request a credit file when assessing the application but carried out full credit 
scoring and the information provided was within its lending parameters. It also said that it felt 
Miss S had intentionally provided incorrect information so it didnt feel any blame should be 
apportioned to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that I read and considered everything that they provided 
when reaching my provisional findings, including the reasons why Miss S thought NatWest 
had acted incorrectly, outlined in her email in November 2020. So, while I might not have 
commented on each point directly, I had already considered these comments. Ive 
considered them again, in light of Miss Ss response to my provisional decisions, as well as 
the comments made by NatWest. But, as before, Ive not commented on each point 
individually, rather my findings are in relation to the main issues in general, as I see them. 
I do not agree with NatWest that applications submitted online negate the need for further 
checks based on the information provided. As I said in my provisional findings, before 
agreeing to lend a business needs to ensure it does so in a responsible manner. To do this it 
should carry out appropriate borrower focused checks around the affordability of any lending, before providing it. And I think this reasonably includes some verification of the 
information submitted as part of an application. 
NatWest will make decisions around the circumstances under which it is willing to lend and 
the parameters under which an application is acceptable. And these may differ depending on 
how an application is made. That is a matter for its commercial judgement. But even if an 
application meets these parameters NatWest is still required to undertake an appropriate 
level of borrower focused checking in relation to the application being considered.
NatWest says it thinks its credit scoring process was sufficient here. It has explained that this 
used, amongst other things, the information provided in the application, the conduct of 
existing accounts and information from credit reference agencies  but not a full copy of 
Miss S credit file. But as I explained previously, I dont think what NatWest did was 
sufficient. And Im not minded based on what it has said to alter my opinion on this.
Ive seen a copy of Miss S credit file which shows her existing commitments and monthly 
outgoings at the time of the application was significantly higher than the figures used by 
NatWest. NatWest has said it didnt request a full copy of Miss S credit file when carrying 
out its review so didnt have this information available. But it has said it requested a copy of 
Miss S financial profile from credit reference agencies. It isnt clear if this included a figure 
for total commitments  but I think it is reasonable to expect it would. If it did, that wouldve 
alerted NatWest to the discrepancy in this information and should I think reasonably have 
prompted further checks. And if it didnt, this would suggest there has been no verification of 
the expenditure figure. So, either way, I dont think I can reasonably say NatWest did 
enough. 
And as I mentioned in my provisional findings, Miss S held two current accounts with 
NatWest. NatWest says the conduct of her accounts was taken into account when 
considering the application. But this doesnt appear to have included a review of the income 
being credited to the account, despite this information being readily available to NatWest. 
Because if NatWest had done so, this would clearly have shown that the income figure was 
incorrect.
So overall, I remain of the opinion that NatWest didnt carry out a sufficient level of borrower 
focused affordability checks when Miss S applied for this loan. And if it had, I dont think the 
loan wouldve been provided.
NatWest has said that it thinks Miss S acted dishonestly and provided incorrect information 
intentionally about her income and employment status. So, it says its shouldnt be found at 
fault. Miss S has said that the income figure used was entered in error. As I said in my 
provisional findings the information Ive seen suggests this incorrect information, income 
figure and employment status, was provided again at a later date. And on balance I thought 
it was less likely the same mistakes had been made multiple times. But whatever the reason 
for the incorrect information having been provided, NatWest was still required to carry out 
sufficient checks before lending  including in my view some verification of the information in 
the application. And as Ive said I dont think it did so. So, I think NatWest has made 
mistakes which have led to a loan being put in place that wouldnt otherwise have been. And 
I think it needs to do something to put that right.
Miss S has had the benefits of the money advanced. While it may take her some time to pay 
this back based on her current circumstances, her situation may change. So, as I outlined in 
my provisional findings, I dont think itd be reasonable for the principal balance to be written 
off  particularly given the incorrect information entered during the application and 
uncertainty around what led to this.But I still dont think Miss S should be required to pay any costs on that principle amount  
interest and charges  because, regardless of the incorrect information and what led to it 
being provided, if NatWest had carried out appropriate checks, I dont think the loan 
wouldve been put in place. 
I also dont think any adverse information should be recorded on her credit record in relation 
to this loan  again because there would be no loan to report had NatWest not lent 
incorrectly. 
In respect of how NatWest handled matters while Miss S was in financial difficulties, I 
havent seen anything that leads me to change my opinion on this  that NatWest acted 
reasonably. So, I dont think it needs to take any further action in respect of this element of 
the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right National Westminster Bank Plc should;
Refund any interest or charges applied to the loan account from inception, to reduce 
the outstanding principle balance.
Ensure no further interest or charges are applied to the outstanding balance and 
work with Miss S to agree an affordable repayment arrangement.
Ensure any adverse information related to this loan is removed from Miss S credit 
file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman