DRN-3656142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. In 2019, Mr and Mrs H booked a package holiday with intended departure and 
return dates of 23 May 2020 and 7 June 2020 respectively. They paid a deposit of £698. 
The balance of £3,952 was due on 24 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On     
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, formerly the Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip before the balance of payment was required. Ill refer to 
the date of cancellation in more detail below. In May 2020, Mr and Mrs H made a claim 
against their policy in relation to their deposit. UKI declined the claim. It said that their claim 
wasnt covered by the policy because they cancelled their trip more than 28 days before the 
intended departure date.
Mr and Mrs H say that their claim is covered by their policy. They say that the policy 
doesnt say that the cancellation must be within 28 days before departure, simply that the 
FCDO advice has to be in place 28 days before departure, which it was here.
Mr and Mrs H say that if they had cancelled their trip later their claim would have been for 
the whole costs of the trip, not just their deposit. They want UKI to settle their claim
and to pay them compensation of £100.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that UKI had 
interpreted the policy correctly in declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim, but he thought it was fair 
and reasonable for UKI to consider the claim. That was because the FCDOs advice 
remained in place on the date of Mr and Mrs Hs intended departure and their decision to 
cancel their trip when they did meant that their claim was for the deposit only, not the full 
cost of the trip.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with the investigator but UKI didnt. It said that its for Mr and Mrs H 
to show that their costs cant be recovered elsewhere. UKI said that Mr and Mrs Hs action 
in cancelling their trip prejudiced its position as if they had not done so, they would have 
received a refund from the package provider under the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR).
The investigator considered what UKI said and asked Mr and Mrs H to see if they could 
recover their losses from the Association of Independent Tour Operators (AITO). AITO 
said that it couldnt cover Mr and Mrs Hs losses. The investigator said that his view 
remained the same and that UKI should consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim. UKI disagreed 
and maintained its position. The investigator considered both what UKI said and further 
correspondence from AITO. He remained of the view that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint 
should be upheld.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision 
On 11 August 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
Part 1  Covers For Your Trip
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
This section provides cover if you need to cancel your trip. The cover starts when you 
book the trip and ends when you reach your point of departure.
[]
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you
have to cancel your trip, including:
Deposits.
[]
Reasons for cancellation
[]
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start date 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your 
destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your [] account, or
booked your trip whichever is later.
You are not covered for
We wont pay for: 
[]
2. Any claim due to you not wanting to travel. 
[]
12. These specific exclusion (see page 18 for full 
explanations):
1. Recoverable costs
Specific Exclusions
The exclusions listed below are shown in a shortened form when they appear in this 
policy. Please refer to the list below for detailed explanations.
1. Recoverable costs
Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont propose to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that UKI treated them unfairly in 
declining their claim. I say that because:Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that 
their claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the 
event is covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in 
the policy the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
UKI has proceeded on the basis that the relevant term of the policy provides that 
the cancellation must be in the 28 days before the intended departure. In this case, 
thats from 24 April 2020, as the intended departure was 23 May 2020. In its initial 
response to the complaint, UKI said that as Mr and Mrs H cancelled the trip earlier 
than 28 days before the intended departure date, the cancellation isnt covered 
under the policy. But thats not what the policy says.
The relevant cancellation provision  which Ive set out above  says that UKI will 
cover certain cancellation costs if the reason for the cancellation is that, in the 28 
days before the trip, the FCDO advises against all but essential travel and that 
advice is after Mr or Mrs H opened the account or booked their trip, whichever is 
later. The FCDO advice was in place from 17 March 2020 and remained in place at 
the time of Mr and Mrs Hs intended departure on 23 May 2020. So, the FCDO 
advice was in place 28 days before Mr and Mrs Hs intended departure.
UKI may have intended to cover cancellation costs following FCDO advice against 
all but essential travel only where the cancellation is within 28 days of departure, 
but thats not what the policy says. I agree with Mr and Mrs H that the policy 
doesnt say that the cancellation has to be within 28 days before departure. But 
thats not the end of the matter, as for reasons Ill explain below, I dont think that 
the FCDO advice was the reason why Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip.
UKI wishes to rely on the exclusion in relation to recoverable costs. Its for UKI 
to show how that exclusion applies. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that
Mr and Mrs H cant recover their costs under the PTR. Thats because the 
package provider didnt cancel the trip; Mr and Mrs H cancelled the trip.
UKIs argument is that Mr and Mrs H prejudiced its position in cancelling 
the trip when they did, as if they hadnt done so, the package provider 
would have cancelled the trip and Mr and Mrs H would have received a 
refund under the PTR or had the benefit of arbitration under the AITO 
scheme. I dont find that argument persuasive. Theres no requirement in 
the policy for Mr and Mrs H to consider recovery from elsewhere in timing 
the cancellation of their trip. And Im considering the claim Mr and Mrs H 
actually made, not the claim they might have made in different 
circumstances.
Having said all that, when we consider complaints like this one, we look at 
the entirety of the obligations between the parties. In this case, I think that 
UKI is entitled to rely on another exclusion in the policy in declining           
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill explain why.UKI has proceeded on the basis that Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip on
16 April 2020, as thats the date of the cancellation invoice. But                  
Mr and Mrs H cancelled the trip before the balance of the payment was due, 
so before 24 March 2020. And in Mr Hs e-mails to AITO of                           
8 September 2021 and 29 September 2021, he says that he and Mrs H 
decided to cancel their trip before the FCDO advice against all non-essential 
travel in the belief that UKI would cover any loss and on the assumption that 
the FCDO would subsequently advise against all travel. So, Mr and Mrs H 
cancelled the trip before the FCDO advice against non-essential travel on 
17 March 2020.
That means I cant fairly conclude that the primary reason for Mr and Mrs H 
cancelling their trip was the FCDO advice. Thats because there was no 
FCDO advice in place at the time the trip was cancelled. So it seems more 
likely to me that Mr and Mrs H had made the decision to cancel their trip. I 
appreciate that the FCDO advice subsequently did change but, at the time 
the trip was cancelled, there was no FCDO advice in force supporting their 
decision to do so.
Theres an exclusion in the policy - which Ive set out above  in relation to 
any claim due to Mr and Mrs H not wanting to travel. I can quite understand 
that, in the circumstances that arose here, Mr and Mrs H didnt wish to travel 
but thats not something thats covered by their policy.
Considering everything, I dont think that UKI treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining their claim, albeit for a different reason than it 
explained previously.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said that it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. Mr H responded to say:
He questions this services impartiality in relying on an exclusion in the policy not 
previously raised by UKI.
They didnt cancel the trip on 24 March 2020. On 16 April 2020, they decided not 
to travel; thats the date on the cancellation invoice. Mr H provided 
correspondence dated 16 April 2020 from the trip provider.
Ive misinterpreted the content of his e-mails to AITO in which he said that they 
decided to cancel their trip before the FCDO advice against all non-essential 
travel.
When they cancelled their trip, FCDO advised against non-essential travel. 
Its not the case that they didnt want to travel. 
They tried to be fair to the insurer by not paying the balance due for the trip and 
claiming only the deposit amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is impartial and therefore its not my role to support either Mr and Mrs H or UKI. 
My role is to consider the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable. 
When we consider complaints like this one, we look at the terms and conditions of the policy 
in their entirety, as they set out the rights and obligations between the parties. We dont 
confine our consideration to the terms either party have relied on to date. 
In my provisional decision, I didnt say that Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip on                    
24 March 2020: I said that they cancelled it before 24 March 2020, that is, before the 
balance of the payment was due. 
In the context of all the available information, I dont think that either the cancellation invoice 
or the content of the correspondence dated 16 April 2020 to Mr H from the trip provider show 
that Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip on 16 April 2020. The content of the correspondence 
Mr H has now provided deals with the trip provider wrapping things up. It doesnt point to             
Mr and Mrs H cancelling the trip on that date. 
Ive looked again at Mr Hs e-mails to AITO in September 2021. In the e-mail of 8 September 
2021, Mr H says:
The trip was cancelled before the final payment was required.
So, hes saying that the trip was cancelled before 24 March 2020. And in Mr Hs e-mail to 
AITO of 29 September 2021, he said:
I would emphasise that the decision to cancel the trip was taken by my wife and I prior to 
the FCO advice not to travel.
So, thats before 17 March 2020. Mr H says that Ive misinterpreted those e-mails but hasnt 
explained any alternative meanings for what he said. Considering everything, I remain of the 
view that Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip before the FCDO advice against non-essential 
travel. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H are disappointed with the provisional decision. Ive 
considered what Mr H has said but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached 
previously. I remain of the view that UKI didnt treat Mr and Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining their claim, albeit for a different reason than it explained previously. For the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman