DRN-3105020
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society lost his money after he arranged an
international transfer.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In August 2020 Mr T instructed a transfer of £5,000 to an account he has in another 
country. But the funds didnt reach the destination account as planned. Nationwide told Mr 
T he had entered the wrong account details on the transfer instruction which had caused 
the delay.
Over the following weeks Nationwide tried to trace the missing funds and found they were 
being held by an intermediary bank acting on behalf of the receiving bank.
Mr T complained to Nationwide and it waived the £20 transfer fee hed paid. Nationwide 
said it was trying to recover Mr Ts funds from the intermediary bank.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr T asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
Recently Nationwides intermediary bank was able to arrange a refund of Mr Ts £5,000 
after the receiving banks intermediary responded to enquiries.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrated Mr T has become as his funds were missing for around a 
year. Its clear something went very wrong with the transfer process. Im pleased that, 
more recently, the funds have been located and returned to Mr T.
Nationwide says the transfer didnt initially go through because Mr T entered the wrong 
account information on the instruction. Mr T says he provided the correct information. 
Nationwide hasnt provided a copy of the original instruction, but it has given us a 
statement from a member of staff. They advised Mr T checked the details before the 
transfer was approved.
I dont know what information was included in the original transfer instruction, but its clear 
the payment was held by the receiving bank for additional checks which is why it didnt 
initially go through. Had everything worked correctly, the funds shouldve been returned to 
Mr Ts Nationwide account within a reasonably short period. But the funds were retained.
I should note that both Nationwide and Mr Ts receiving bank had intermediary banks 
working on their behalf. Nationwides intermediary (H) acted to administer the 
international transfer and forwarded Mr Ts funds to the receiving banks intermediary (S). 
Ive looked at the available information, and it shows the funds were retained by S for an 
extended period.
H has provided a timeline of events that indicates it continued to chase S for a return of Mr 
Ts funds during the period in question. S responses to H explained the funds were 
originally returned to a different bank. It was only after further messages and information 
from H that S traced the missing funds and arranged to return them. Last month, Mr T 
confirmed his funds had been returned.
In this complaint, I can only look at Nationwide and the actions of its intermediary H. As S 
was acting as Mr Ts receiving banks intermediary, I cant consider how it handled the 
transfer or any delays it may have been responsible for.
Ive looked at Nationwide and Hs actions and the efforts made to retrieve Mr Ts funds. 
Whilst neither party appears to be directly responsible for the delay in Mr Ts funds being 
returned, I think they couldve done more to chase the funds from the intermediary bank. 
And I think Nationwide shouldve done more to keep Mr T fully updated as to the progress 
of its investigations. Its clear the potential loss of £5,000 and the extended period where 
Mr T was unaware of what was going on has caused an unreasonable amount of distress. 
Mr T has told us he wasnt kept updated and thought his money was lost. Im satisfied hes 
been caused an unnecessary level of distress in this case. So I intend to provisionally 
uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Nationwide to pay him £200. In my view, that figure 
fairly reflects the impact of the situation on Mr T and the upset caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr T responded and provided a copy of the Swift transfer 
form. Mr T reiterated that he provided the correct information when making the transfer. 
Nationwide responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr T for responding with the information hes supplied. As I said in my 
provisional decision, it appears the receiving banks intermediary, S, sent Mr Ts to a 
different bank instead of returning them to H. It then appears to have taken several months 
for S to forward the funds back to H. So even accepting that Mr T did give the right transfer 
information, it still doesnt appear to me that Nationwide or its agent, H, was responsible for 
the major part of the delay in Mr T receiving a refund.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I think Nationwide shouldve done more to 
update and help Mr T during the period his funds were missing. As a result, I awarded £200 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve 
Mr Ts complaint about Nationwide, for broadly the same reasons.  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay     
Mr T £200.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman