DRN-2302313
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) avoided his caravan 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim following the 
theft of his caravan.
RSA say Mr J misrepresented information he gave about the security of his caravan when 
he bought the policy. 
All reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr J bought a new caravan. Before collecting it Mr J purchased a caravan 
insurance policy with RSA online. A couple of weeks later Mr Js caravan was stolen from a 
storage site and he reported the theft to RSA. 
RSA said that a condition of cover was for Mr J to have a wheel lock fitted to the caravan. Mr 
Js caravan didnt have a wheel lock fitted. But RSA asked Mr J a question about the security 
of the caravan when he applied for the policy. Hed said his caravan would have a fitted 
wheel lock. 
RSA said if Mr J had said his caravan wasnt fitted with a wheel lock, it wouldnt have offered 
him a policy. So it avoided Mr Js policy from the start date and didnt meet his theft claim. It 
said it didnt think Mr Js misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, but it thought he 
hadnt taken reasonable care. So it refunded the premium hed paid under the policy. 
Mr J asked us to look at his complaint. He said hed looked at a variety of caravans  some 
with wheel locks and some without  before deciding to buy the one he did which didnt have 
a wheel lock. He said he didnt realise it didnt have a wheel lock fitted until he collected it 
and intended to buy a wheel lock at the earliest opportunity. Mr J said the storage site where 
he left the caravan had CCTV and was secure. Mr J said hed padlocked a chain through the 
caravans wheel and chassis as an additional security measure to lock a wheel. So he felt 
RSAs decision was unfair and they were relying on a technicality to avoid meeting his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. He thought RSA had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr J didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA said Mr J didnt take reasonable care when he said his caravan had a wheel lock, 
because it didnt. 
When Mr J applied for the policy, he answered yes to the following:
Enter caravan security  Hitch lock? yes. Wheel lock? yes.
So I think the key question RSA asked was clear. Mr J accepts that his caravan didnt have a 
fitted wheel lock which came as standard with other models. I understand it was Mr Js 
intention to buy a wheel lock at the earliest opportunity. But its evident that his caravan 
didnt have one at the time of the theft - and this was a requirement of RSA in order to 
provide insurance cover. 
Under the section Storage and Security of Mr Js policy schedule, RSA highlighted:
Please Note: In place of a Hitch lock the Caravans hitch can be removed and stored 
securely away from the Caravan. In place of a Wheel clamp or Axle Wheel Locking 
Device the Caravan wheels can be removed and stored securely away from the 
Caravan. When the wheels are removed Winter Wheels, Locking Wheel Nuts or 
Locking Wheel Plates must be fitted in place.
So RSA clearly explained what measures Mr J would need to take to reduce the risk of theft 
in the absence of a wheel lock while stored. And RSA explained that if any of the information 
was incorrect, it was important for Mr J to contact it as the terms provided may not be 
correct, a claim may be rejected and the policy may be invalid. So I think it made Mr J aware 
of the potential consequences if the information he gave about his caravan wasnt correct.
Ive looked at what RSA would have done had they known the correct information. RSA has 
provided evidence from its underwriters which shows it wouldnt have offered a policy with 
the correct information. This is commercially sensitive information and so we cant share it 
with customers, But we can ask a business to share this with us so we can be satisfied it has 
treated a customer fairly. Based on what Ive seen, I think RSAs decision to treat the 
misrepresentation as a qualifying one is fair and reasonable.
RSA classified the misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I think 
this was fair as I dont think Mr J intended to deliberately mislead RSA. And as such, it 
refunded the premium Mr J paid under the policy in line with CIDRA. 
I understand Mr J is very disappointed with RSAs decision. But I think it treated Mr J fairly 
and as it would any other customer in his position. I think its decision to avoid his policy and 
not provide cover was reasonable, in line with the policy and in line with CIDRA. So this 
means Im not asking RSA to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman