DRN-2861101
Complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money she lost to a scam.
Background
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Zs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I dont 
need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
In January 2020, Mrs Z established contact with an individual on an online dating 
website and started communicating with him regularly.
This man claimed to be working on a project overseas and said that hed 
encountered difficulties with accessing the funds in his bank account. He provided 
her with evidence supporting these claims. 
He asked Mrs Z to help him financially until he was able to resolve the problem with 
his bank and so persuaded her to transfer him significant sums in a series of 
transactions over three months. In total, she transferred £44,000.
He also told her how to explain what the payments were for if they were questioned 
by the bank. 
It subsequently became apparent that this mans backstory was a fabrication 
designed to scam Mrs Z out of her money. She notified Lloyds and asked it to refund 
the payments to her.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds turned down the claim. It thought Mrs Z had ignored warnings throughout the period 
the scam took place. It didnt think she had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
individual she was paying was legitimate. It did contact the receiving bank in an attempt to 
recover her money, but all of the funds had been moved out of the account before anything 
could be recovered.
Mrs Z brought her complaint to our service because she wasnt happy with the response she 
received from Lloyds. The complaint was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The 
Investigator found that, although Lloyds had given a warning, it wasnt an effective warning 
based on the requirements of the CRM code.
The Investigator said that the warning wasnt specific to Mrs Zs circumstances and there 
was no evidence that a discussion about the wider circumstances surrounding the payment 
took place. Mrs Z was under the spell of the scammer and Lloyds needed to do more to 
break that spell. The Investigator also noted that Mrs Z had been told by the scammer to 
give false explanations as to who she was intending to pay  but these stories werent 
plausible. She told Lloyds that she was transferring money to her accountant to pay 
mortgage fees. It wasnt clear exactly what that meant, and the Lloyds representatives ought 
to have dug deeper to try and figure out what was going on.
The Investigator concluded that Lloyds ought to have refunded Mrs Zs losses under the 
CRM. It also recommended it pay her £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
she suffered. The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 16 April 2021 with a 
deadline for responding of 14 May 2021. That deadline has passed and the bank has still 
failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
  
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mrs Z ought to have been fully reimbursed when 
she notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether she met her requisite 
level of care. I believe she did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mrs Z to have received a 
full refund at the time.
Although most of Mrs Zs distress likely resulted from the criminal acts of the fraudster, I 
agree with the investigator that Lloyds actions caused distress to her and that £250 
represents fair compensation.
    
Final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs Z ought 
reasonably to have been full refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Lloyds to pay Mrs Z:
the money she lost  i.e. £44,000  within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of this final decision; andinterest at the rate of 8% simpler per annum on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined her claim under the CRM until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman