DRN-2194343
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) following an escape of 
water at their home and the subsequent repair works. Mr B and Ms H are unhappy about 
damage to their kitchen when it was removed and reinstated. They want Ageas to pay for a 
replacement kitchen to achieve a uniform look. 
What happened
In around June 2018, Mr B and Ms H became aware of a leak underneath their ground floor 
bathroom floor. Tests showed that the leak was coming from the toilet waste pipe and that 
mould spores were present throughout the ground floor of the property. 
Mr B and Ms H, along with their pets, moved out of the property into alternative 
accommodation while work was undertaken to fix the leak.
Around September 2018, it became clear that more rooms on the ground floor were affected 
by the leaked water, including the kitchen. 
Ageas commissioned a schedule of works to be prepared, setting out the work to be done in 
drying out the property, and repairing damage caused by the leak. 
Mr B and Ms H engaged their own loss assessor, who inspected the kitchen and did not note 
damage to the units. Ageas decided that the kitchen base units needed to be removed and 
stored while the kitchen was dried out, and then reinstated. A sum was agreed as a cash 
settlement for Mr B and Ms H to engage their own contractors for the removal, storage and 
reinstallation of the kitchen. 
The kitchen was removed and stored in the property while work continued. 
When the property was dry, Mr B and Ms Hs contractors attended and refitted the kitchen. 
It became clear that some base units, facings / plinths, and cupboard doors had been 
damaged in the period since the first schedule of works was prepared. The worktop too had 
suffered delamination at the join where two pieces were affixed into a corner. Further 
delamination was identified in other locations. 
Mr B and Ms H complained to Ageas and felt that the kitchen was not being put back to the 
position it was before the original leak. Mr B and Ms H have other complaints with Ageas 
relating to home contents, relocation, delay in the works and issues with the water system. 
These are being looked into under other complaints and are not part of this complaint.
Ageas considered that any damage sustained or identified, after the initial schedule of works 
was prepared, was due to the contractors, chosen by Mr B and Ms Hs loss assessor, who 
removed and reinstalled the kitchen, and that any moisture damage sustained in the interim 
was due to the way it had been stored. Ageas did not, therefore, uphold the complaint. 
Mr B and Ms H came to us. They obtained an expert view which explains that kitchens are 
largely designed for single installation and the materials that they are made from 
(predominantly chipboard) are prone to damage when removed and reinstated. 
The expert considered that some level of damage in the process of removal, storage and 
reinstatement of a kitchen of the same age as Mr B and Ms Hs kitchen was inevitable. Mr B 
and Ms H therefore consider that Ageas remains responsible for the damage sustained to 
their kitchen.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that the damage which was inevitable in the removal and reinstallation of a kitchen of 
this age, should be covered by Ageas  this included the unit fronts which were damaged in 
the removal/reinstallation process, and the worktop where the surface delaminated at the 
join during separation or reinstatement.
She considered that damage which was caused by either the storage of the kitchen or any 
other incident, should not be covered by Ageas. 
She also considered that Ageas should pay 50% of the cost of replacement of the 
undamaged unit fronts which would require replacing to make the kitchen match again. 
Neither party accepted this. Mr B and Ms H felt that Ageas should pay the entire cost of 
replacing the unit fronts in order to return them to having an undamaged kitchen, as they had 
before the escape of water. 
Ageas does not consider that it is responsible for any damage to the kitchen units and 
believes that to pay for 50% of the undamaged unit fronts is excessive and unfair to its other 
policy holders. 
The complaint has therefore been referred for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular regard to the photographs of damage sustained, and the reports 
provided by Ageas and Mr B and Ms Hs experts. 
I appreciate that Mr B and Ms H have reported a number of issues which flowed from the 
leak and which have caused them excessive distress and inconvenience, including by 
having to live away from their home for a considerable period, and suffering associated 
health impacts. I understand these issues as context, and that these issues are being 
considered elsewhere, but want to acknowledge how difficult this period must have been for 
them. 
I also understand Mr B and Ms Hs feelings about the view issued by my colleague. They 
have indicated that they do not consider that they should have to pay anything towards a 
replacement kitchen in order to achieve a consistent aesthetic, because that is what they 
had before the leak occurred. I have sympathy with this view, but have to bear in mind the 
extent of cover that was offered under their chosen policy, and what can be shown to be the 
responsibility of Ageas. The particular policy Mr B and Ms H chose allowed Ageas to choose 
how it settled claims, including deciding whether to replace or repair of damaged items. This 
meant that Ageas retained discretion in how to settle the claim, so long as it repaired or 
replaced all damaged items for which it was responsible.   My colleague set out her view explaining that she considered that damage to the kitchen 
units caused by moisture and / or contact with a damp surface would have manifested 
reasonably promptly after the leak and would have likely been observed by the loss adjuster 
and loss assessor at the time of inspection.
She also considered that the evidence demonstrated that some degree of damage to the 
chipboard/particleboard kitchen was inevitable through the removal and reinstatement of a 
kitchen which had been intended for single installation. 
I agree with her assessment and her view that damage which manifested promptly after the 
leak, or which was likely caused by Ageas decision to remove and reinstate the original 
kitchen, is damage which Ageas is responsible for. This included damaged worktops where 
re-joining the worktop was not possible without causing delamination, and those unit fronts 
and sides which became chipped during the removal or reinstatement of the kitchen.
Mr B and Ms H did not agree with this view. They felt that the kitchen units were materially 
weakened by the decision to remove and reinstate them, and that their being stored within 
the damp property caused additional damage, making them more susceptible to impact 
chips. 
I understand this, but the storage and reinstatement of the kitchen were both contracted by 
Mr B and Ms Hs loss assessor, and so were not within Ageas control. I do not think it would 
be fair to hold Ageas responsible for damage sustained when the kitchen was outside of its 
control.  
Ageas accepted this initial part of the investigators view, but in the interim it had emerged 
that the damaged kitchen unit fronts could not be replaced without causing a mismatch in the 
look of the kitchen. The investigator therefore issued a second view and considered that 
Ageas should pay 50% towards the replacement of the remaining unit fronts so they could 
be completely replaced in order to achieve a consistent aesthetic to the kitchen. 
Ageas has not accepted that part of the view and has relied upon its policy wording which 
does not provide cover for matching sets when only part of the set is damaged. 
Mr B and Ms H do not think that a 50% reimbursement is adequate indemnity from the 
damage caused by the leak as they initially had a matching kitchen free from chips and 
damage. 
I understand both views but agree with the investigators assessment and her application of 
our approach to loss of match. I think that this is a fair outcome. 
Consequently, I uphold Mr B and Ms Hs complaint and direct that Ageas Insurance Limited 
take the following actions to put things right. 
Putting things right
Ageas should pay for replacement parts and installation of:
The worktop which could not be successfully re-joined;
The units and unit fronts damaged by impact or removal/reinstallation;
In addition, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 50% of the cost of supplying and
installing comparable kitchen unit fronts to the remainder of the kitchen
Mr B and Ms H should, via their loss assessor, submit proposals for the scope of the repair 
and costs to Ageas for validation. Ageas should validate the proposals or enter into discussion over alternatives within 28 days 
of receipt of the proposed scope.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr B and Ms Hs complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr B and Ms H for replacement parts and installation of:
oThe worktop which could not be successfully re-joined;
oThe units and unit fronts damaged by impact or removal/reinstallation;
In addition, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay to Mr B and Ms H 50% of the cost 
of supplying and installing comparable kitchen unit fronts to the remainder of the 
kitchen.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman