DRN-3593242
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined his claim for theft 
of a watch and cancelled his policy. 
 
What happened
Mr C had his Rolex watch stolen whilst abroad. He reported it to the police and made a claim 
for it under his home contents insurance policy in October 2021. 
When he spoke to Lloyds about it, they told him they couldnt accept his claim as he had 
been out of the UK for more than 60 days. 
Lloyds then cancelled Mr Cs policy because they said that his home had been unoccupied 
for more than 60 days. 
Mr C complained and said that the Rolex is a high value item specified on his policy and it 
shouldnt make a difference that he had been out of the country. He also said that his sister 
was going to the property every weekend to house sit and so it wasnt unoccupied. 
Lloyds issued a final response declining the claim and confirming that the policy was 
cancelled because of unoccupancy.  
Mr C was unhappy with this as the cancellation of cover had left him with no insurance, and 
the letter of notification had been sent to his UK address while he wasnt there, so he 
brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and he thought that Lloyds had acted 
in line with the terms of the policy.    
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Lloyds have acted within the terms of the policy, and fairly and 
reasonably in their decision to decline the claim and to cancel the policy.
Having considered all the evidence, I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why. 
I can see that when Mr C rang Lloyds to report his claim, he advised them that he had been 
in Spain for 18 months and his sister was completing weekly checks on the property while he 
was away. 
The decision to decline the claim
The claim for the watch was made under the personal possessions part of the policy. 
However, the policy only covers personal possessions when the absence from home is 
temporary.  At p22 of the policy booklet it says 
Personal belongings and money cover
This part of the policy sets out the cover we provide for you and your familys belongings and 
money when in or temporarily outside your home
What we cover:
Theft or accidental loss of, or accidental damage to personal belongings.  
The policy then defines temporarily at page 23 as:
By temporarily we mean a period of less than 60 days in a row
As Mr C has confirmed to Lloyds that he had been absent from the property for a period of 
18 months at the time of the theft, and had not returned to the UK in this time, I am satisfied 
that the claim has been declined in line with the terms and conditions of the policy above. 
There is no exception to this condition for high value specified items and so I cant uphold 
this part of the complaint. 
The cancellation of the policy
Following Lloyds being advised that Mr C had been absent from the UK for 18 months, they 
wrote to him at his UK address and asked him to make contact in 14 days. As he didnt 
reply, the policy was cancelled from the date he left the UK. 
So, Ive checked the policy documents to see whether this was in line with policy terms and 
conditions that Mr C had been notified of. 
The policy booklet at p8 says:
If youre going away for more than 30 days, say on holiday or for a hospital stay, and you or 
your family wont be living in your home, please call us, well tell you what to do to ensure 
your home remains protected, including: Turning off the water, gas and electric and 
arranging for the property to be checked regularly. 
And then it also says at page 13 under Cancellation;
Your policy can also end as set out in the Changes you must tell us about wording;
Changes you must tell us about:
You must tell us if any of the answers you gave to the questions you were asked when you 
took out your policy change during the insurance period. Specifically, you must tell us before 
it happens if: 
Your home is to become unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row
Because we can change your terms or cover to reflect a change from when it happens, it is 
very important that you tell us about a change before it happens or as soon as you know 
about it. Once you have told us about a change, we will let you know whether we can 
continue your cover and, if we can, the terms on which it will continue.If any of these changes happen during the insurance period, we can do one or more of the 
following to take account of the change:
Treat your policy as ended from the date of the change meaning that you will not be covered 
after that date.
So I think the policy is clear that it was Mr Cs responsibility to let Lloyds know that he was 
going away for more than 30 days  and whilst his sister may have been checking on the 
property I think its clear that Mr C should have notified Lloyds in advance, or as soon as he 
knew, and checked how this affected his cover. 
His failure to do so means that Lloyds are entitled to treat the policy as ended from the date 
that he left the UK.
    
Mr C has said that as his sister was visiting at the weekends to check on the property, so it 
wasnt unoccupied, and he doesnt see this difference between him being there at 
weekends, and his sister. 
However, the policy booklet defines unoccupied as Not lived in by you or a member of 
your family for more than 30  days in a row, and Family is defined as your spouse or 
partner and children and any other relatives all of whom normally live with you. 
And so, I am satisfied that Mr Cs sister visiting at the weekends, even if she stayed over, 
doesnt prevent the property from being treated as unoccupied for the purposes of the policy.  
Was sufficient notice of cancellation given 
As I am satisfied that Lloyds were entitled to cancel the policy, I have then considered 
whether they gave Mr C sufficient notice of cancellation of his policy. 
The policy booklet at page 13 says:
We can cancel your policy by giving you 14 days written notice at your last known address 
if:
There is any change in risk occurring which increases the risk under your policy and which 
we are unable to insure;
A letter was sent to Mr Cs UK address giving 14 days notice. Mr C argues that Lloyds knew 
he was no longer residing there as they had become aware he was in Spain. However, I 
have seen no evidence that he had notified Lloyds of an alternative address in Spain, and so 
I am satisfied that this letter was sent to Mr Cs last known address and is therefore effective 
notice.   
I can also see that Mr C was advised that his policy might be cancelled when he reported the 
theft and was advised that the claim wouldnt be accepted, and so I consider that he was on 
notice that this was a possibility.
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank Genral Insurance Limited do not need to do anything further.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman