DRN-2849604
The complaint
Mrs O complains about delays and mistakes by TSB Bank plc after she instructed it to 
transfer her ISA funds to other businesses. 
What happened
Mrs O had an ISA with TSB that matured on 22 March 2018. Mrs O sent her transfer 
instructions to TSB before the maturity date. Mrs O wanted TSB to transfer £30,000 to one 
business (V) and £20,000 of her remaining balance to another business (N). Mrs Bs transfer 
instruction said TSB should transfer her remaining balance to N so it could be placed in a 
different account.  
When the ISA matured, TSB transferred £30,000 to N and failed to send Mrs Os remaining 
funds on as requested. It took several weeks for TSB to correct the transfer errors it had 
made and ensure Mrs Os funds reached the right place. Mrs O has told us that during this 
period her online banking stopped working for a few days which added to concerns her life 
savings had been lost. 
TSB corrected its errors and Mrs Os savings were sent to the correct businesses and 
accounts. Mrs O complained but TSB didnt respond until 6 March 2019. TSB explained that 
disruption caused by a systems upgrade meant it had taken longer than normal to respond 
to Mrs Os complaint. TSB agreed it had made several mistakes when handling Mrs Os ISA 
transfers and apologised. TSB paid Mrs O £71.20 to cover missed interest and her losses. 
TSB also paid Mrs O £50 for her costs and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs O referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed TSB had made mistakes but thought it had made a fair offer to resolve 
her complaint. Mrs O asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that TSB made several errors with Mrs Os ISA funds. I have been brief 
above, but its clear the wrong amount was sent to N and nothing was sent to V when the 
TSB ISA matured. Mrs O has told us she had to spend a substantial amount of time dealing 
with the businesses involved to try and find out what had happened and how to resolve it. I 
also understand the sums involved were significant and that these were Mrs Os life savings, 
so particularly important. 
I know its not Mrs Os main focus, but Im satisfied TSB has compensated her for the lost 
interest and ensure she hasnt lost out financially as a result of the errors and delays. TSB 
also paid Mrs O £50 to cover her call costs and I think thats fair given what shes told us 
about how long the calls took. 
TSB paid Mrs O £250 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors 
and the issues with its IT system. I know Mrs O had to wait much longer than normal for a 
final response from TSB. But I think its reasonable to note the ISA issues were resolved 
within around two months of the date of maturity. So whilst I dont doubt how distressing it 
was to find TSB hadnt correctly processed the ISA transfer instructions, she wasnt waiting 
for TSBs final response to hear that her savings were safe. 
Ive considered the compensation paid by TSB and I think it fairly reflects the impact of the 
errors and delays on Mrs O. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O but I havent been persuaded to 
tell TSB to increase its offer or do anything further to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman