DRN-2679304
The complaint
This is a complaint that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms D. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. Capital One sold Ms D the 
policy when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms D and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
I think Capital One made Ms D aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. We have 
good evidence that the internet process at the time set out the PPI as a choice, which 
the customer had to actively make. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Ds 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was up to Ms D to decide whether she thought the PPI worthwhile. 
Its possible the information Capital One  gave Ms D  about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. The PPI 
would have paid out on top of any work sick pay or redundancy pay, and could have 
made Ms D more financially secure if she lost earnings due to long-term sickness or 
redundancy. So it would have put off the time when shed need to fall back on other 
means to pay her living costs, including her credit card payments. She has 
mentioned that she would sell jewellery and ask friends and family for help  the PPI 
could have put that time off. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any 
of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Ms D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman