DRN-2075955
The complaint
Ms A complains about the way TSB Bank plc dealt with her request to increase her 
overdraft.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its for TSB as a business to decide who it lends to and on what basis. But Id expect 
it to carry out checks before it lends to a customer, even if that customer has banked 
with TSB for a long time. As part of those checks, I think it was reasonable for TSB to 
ask Ms A why she needed to increase her overdraft.
Ms A said she needed to pay a bill. But the amount of that bill was only around £11 
and she was asking for further credit of £1,000. I think it was reasonable for TSB to 
decline Ms As request at that stage, as the amount of credit she was seeking was 
disproportionate to the expense she needed to cover.
When Ms A explained she had other expenses she needed the money for, the agent 
was initially reluctant to discuss her request further. Having listened to the call, I can 
understand why this was upsetting to Ms A. But the agent then consulted with a 
colleague and came back to ask Ms A about the other expenses. So Im satisfied that 
TSB was still willing to consider Ms As request for the overdraft increase.
The agent asked what Ms A needed the £1,000 for. She mentioned a holiday, clothes 
and medication as well as bills. The agent asked how much each of these would cost 
and Ms A gave an approximate figure for each. In relation to the medication, the 
agent asked what it was. Im satisfied that this question was related to establishing 
the cost of the medication. I realise Ms A found it inappropriate, but I dont think it 
was unfair. The questioning wasnt excessive and its reasonable for TSB to ask 
questions so that it can understand what the money it might lend would be used for.
After discussion of the amount Ms A needed to borrow, the agent said she would 
need to go through a full lending application. If TSB was going to increase Ms As 
overdraft facility by the amount shed requested, Id expect it to carry out enough 
checks to ensure she could afford the extra borrowing. So its requirement for Ms A to 
complete a lending application was reasonable and its what Id expect them to do.
The agent said they could go through it over the phone there and then and it would 
take around 20 minutes. As an alternative, he offered to book an appointment for Ms 
A at her local branch. I think that was a reasonable approach, but Ms A decided not 
to pursue either of these options, so the application process ended there. 
Im satisfied that TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its consideration of Ms As 
request. But I think the agent could have handled the call better. I can understand 
why Ms A found the conversation upsetting and unsatisfactory. TSB has apologised 
for that. And its already paid Ms A £27 to settle the complaint (£25 as compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience caused and £2 to cover her call costs). I think this is 
fair in all the circumstances here, so Im not going to ask TSB to do any more. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman