DRN-4496783
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC released her safe deposit box and the contents to 
her ex-husband without her consent.
What happened
In November 2022 Miss S started asking Lloyds about the return of her safe deposit box. 
She was initially told over the phone that the staff in the branch were looking for the box. 
After a while, she went into the branch herself in December 2022 and asked for a manager. 
A complaint was logged in January 2023. She was allocated a complaint manager in 
February 2023 when she was finally told that the box had been released to her ex-husband. 
The box belonged to her and she hadn't given any consent for it to be released to anyone 
else. She feels that she was not kept updated and was only given information when she 
emailed to find out what was happening. She said that the adviser dealing with her complaint 
had been understanding and delicate when dealing with her.
Lloyds said that it had been in contact with Miss S regarding the matter since the complaint 
was raised on 11 January 2023. The reason for the delay was due to the third party 
(ex-husband) being contacted in respect of the box. It said it had been in regular contact with 
Miss S in respect of this. It said it is still an ongoing investigation, as only recently some of 
the items were returned by the family of the ex-husband to the local branch. And Miss S had 
previously refused to provide a list of what was missing. It said it was again contacting the 
ex-husband and family in respect of any possible remaining missing items in their 
possession.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator contacted Lloyds who said
that its investigation was still ongoing. Our Investigator said that Lloyds investigation and
recovery process had to continue but he issued a view concerning Lloyds release of the box
and its poor customer service. He said that Lloyds should play £750 compensation.
Lloyds said it was minded because of the service issues highlighted to accept the detailed
view, and to pay £750. That it would do that without considering the surrendering the safe
custody item without due diligence aspect of the complaint.
Miss S didnt accept the view and said that the compensation didnt reflect the very great 
impact the issue had had on her.
I issued a provisional decision. Although I agreed that the compensation awarded was 
appropriate, I said that at this stage only the customer service issue could be considered. 
This left the issues of the surrender of the safe deposit box and the recovery and 
compensation process to be decided at a later date when that process has concluded.
Lloyds accepted my findings and said that as it has already agreed to the compensation it 
had no further comments to make regarding customer service.
Miss S didn't accept my findings and didn't agree with the outcome. She didn't put forward 
any additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics.
To my mind, some confusion has arisen here. Lloyds proposed to accept the view although 
omitting the surrendering of the box from consideration. However we have told Miss S that 
this issue will be considered, just leaving the ongoing investigation and recovery process to 
be dealt with once it has been determined what can be recovered. So I am issuing a 
provisional decision to provide clarity to both parties.
I don't think that I am in a position to decide Miss Ss complaints about the surrendering of 
the box, as I think Lloyds has identified. This is because, although there is no dispute that 
the box was released to an unauthorised party, any compensation for this failure will need to 
take account of the impact on Miss S. And while she has provided full details of the impact 
on her personally to date, I don't think that I can assess the full impact on her, or determine 
full redress, until the recovery process has concluded. For example if all the items are not 
recovered then, depending on what they are, the impact on Miss S would be far greater than 
if the items were recovered.
I can understand Miss Ss anxiety to resolve matters, but I don't think it would be in her 
interests to award compensation in respect of the surrender of the box at this stage, because 
if the impact is much greater on her than anticipated at the moment, she would not be able 
to come back to the Financial Ombudsman Service for further compensation about that 
issue.
So I propose in this decision to address just the customer service issues. I've not seen 
Lloyds file as that is needed for the ongoing recovery process. But Lloyds has accepted the 
Investigators view about the customer service issues and Miss S has provided us with full 
details. Those issues were:
Lloyds did not admit the box was missing until February 2023, and that it had been 
released to her ex-husband, when it was aware Miss S had been asking for its return 
since November 2022.
Miss S was told in phone calls that the staff were looking for the box but it wasnt until 
she went into the branch and insisted on seeing a manager, that she was told she could
log a complaint.
She was not provided with any indicative timelines of how long its investigations would 
go on and was often left in limbo unless she emailed asking for an update.
Nevertheless Miss S was fobbed off especially in the early stages of this matter and it was 
only through her insistence that Lloyds logged a complaint and she was told that the box had 
been released to her ex-husband. I think in light of the seriousness of the matter Lloyds did 
provide a poor customer service to Miss S.
For the customer service issues alone, I propose to award £750 compensation. This leaves 
the issues of the surrender of the safe deposit box and the recovery and compensation 
process to be decided at a later date when that process has concluded.
As neither party has made any substantive comments concerning my provisional findings, 
I remain persuaded by those findings. Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision concerning the consumer service issues in this case.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss S £750.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint concerning the customer service issues in this matter and require 
Lloyds Bank PLC to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman