The complaint
Mr J says Connells Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr J took out a mortgage through Connells in 2008. Connells also sold him PPI, the cost of 
which was paid by monthly premium. The PPI covered Mr Js monthly repayments if he 
couldnt work due to disability and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr J disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J says he wasnt aware PPI had been added. He says he has learning difficulties and 
was just told to sign the paperwork. Unfortunately, I cant know for sure what was discussed 
at the time. And I dont know if Connells was made aware, or ought to have been aware, of 
his learning difficulties. 
That said, the mortgage application form Mr J signed shows a tick to indicate he wanted PPI. 
The box to tick to decline PPI was left blank. Mr J also signed separately to take PPI.   
I recognise its possible Mr Js recollections of the sale are accurate. But, Im mindful that its 
at least equally possible he was told at the time, and understood, that the PPI was optional, 
and he agreed to have it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe I have enough evidence with which to uphold 
the complaint on these grounds. 
I believe Connells recommended the PPI to Mr J. So, among other things, it had to take 
steps to make sure it was right for him. I dont know if it did that, but I believe it was right for 
him in any case. For example, Mr J was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt appear that he 
was significantly affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
DRN-2021205Mr J says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer for a time, although he 
cant recall for how long. But we know the PPI would have paid out on top of that and for up 
to 12 months per claim. It covered him for unemployment too. So, I think Mr J still had a 
need for the PPI, not least because the mortgage was a major financial commitment and the 
potential consequences of not keeping up with the monthly payments were significant.
Ive no reason to think the monthly premium was unaffordable for Mr J. Whats more, the PPI 
was flexible in that he could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided 
they no longer wanted it.
Connells also had to give Mr J clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the PPI. This 
was so he could make an informed decision about buying it. As I say, I believe its likely he 
wanted to take out the cover. And I cant, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for 
him, see what other information about the PPI would have put him off taking it out  it 
provided him with useful benefits at an affordable cost. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Js lost out because of how Connells sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman