DRN-2537267
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs M took out a store card in November 1996  PPI was applied to her account at the same 
time.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he didnt think Mrs M would have been able to 
benefit from the policy. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Both Mrs M and AXA agree this was a non-advised sale, so AXA didnt have to check the 
policy was suitable for her. But AXA still had to give Mrs M enough information about the 
policy, so she could decide whether it was right for her. This includes information about the 
eligibility criteria of the policy. 
To be eligible for the policy, Mrs M had to be in paid employment and working more than 16 
hours per week. And I think this would have matter to Mrs M because she says she wasnt 
working at the time her policy was sold  she says she was a full-time student.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms application form. At the top of the form it says, Only complete 
this application form if you or your partner are in permanent paid employment, As the 
wording refers to either the customer or their partner, I dont think this would have made it 
clear to Mrs M that she had to be working in order to apply for PPI. 
Further down, there is a section for customers to provide their employment details and on 
Mrs Ms application form, this has been crossed through and left unanswered. Then, looking 
at the section that specifically talks about PPI  I cant see that the eligibility criteria was set 
out or referenced in any way. So, I cant see that AXA confirmed Mrs M was working at the 
time of sale, or that AXA made it clear to Mrs M that she needed to be working in order to 
have the policy. 
AXA says the information Mrs M has provided to us does not directly match the information 
previously given during its initial investigation. I can see that in its review of the complaint, 
AXA noted that Mrs M answered other in relation to her employment status. I havent seen 
a copy of this information, but AXAs notes also say that when asked to confirm her 
employer, job role and tenure, Mrs M said that this was not applicable. Mrs M says she 
doesnt know why the information provided would have said other rather than student, but 
she has always said she wasnt employed.
Ive thought about everything AXA has said, but I dont think Mrs M has been inconsistent. 
Mrs M has confirmed a number of times that she was not in paid employment at the time of 
sale and I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. Mrs M has confirmed that she was a 
full-time student, studying a three course over the period within which her policy was sold. I 
think this is a reasonable explanation as to how and why she knows she wasnt working at 
the time. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M was not eligible for the policy and this 
means it wasnt of any use to her.
I dont think Mrs M would have bought the policy if shed have realised she wasnt eligible for 
it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M 
would have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman