DRN-3102604
The complaint
Mrs H who is represented by her son Mr H, complains that Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc mishandled her chargeback and s 75 Consumer Act 1974 claim in respect of a 
holiday which was abandoned due to the collapse of the company providing the flights.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background in some detail in his view letter so I will give a 
brief synopsis. However, I would reassure both parties that I have considered all the material 
supplied to me.
On 12 September 2019 Mrs H booked a package holiday with a company I will call S and 
this included flights with a company I will call T. On 23 September T went out of business. 
That day Mrs H and her son spoke to the bank. They were told to contact S and if that did 
not produce a resolution then a chargeback would be raised. A disclaimer form was sent by 
M&S which was returned on 17 October. Mrs H was advised she needed to contact the Civil 
Aviation Authority.
The CAA did not resolve the issue and Mrs H and her son spoke to the bank on 2 January 
2020 to let it know and to explain that S had not provided a refund or suitable alternative 
flights.
On 20 January during a call with Mrs H M&S said it had no evidence of S refusing suitable 
alternative flights or a refund. It told Mr H later that day that it needed evidence that S had 
not dealt with the matter. He didnt accept this. Two days later during a call Mr H said his 
mother had received an email from S on 30 September which had offered unsuitable 
replacement flights. The bank asked for evidence so it could make a chargeback, but Mr H 
said that wasnt necessary and he also said his mother wished to make a s 75 claim. He was 
told the bank wanted to explore the chargeback first, but Mr H didnt accept this was right 
and he felt the bank was being obstructive. 
Two days later the bank called Mrs H to explain that it needed confirmation that S would not 
make a refund once the CAA had issued its negative response. On 30 January S sent an 
email confirming it would make a refund within 30 days and the bank called Mrs H to say a 
chargeback would be raised if the refund wasnt paid within 30 days. Despite that the bank 
applied a refund on 17 February and made a successful chargeback request.
Mr H complained on his mothers behalf and M&S accepted that it had made an error in a 
letter dated 17 October in which it had advised her to contact the CAA. It noted that S had 
already advised her to do the same so its advice was unlikely to have caused unnecessary 
delay. It offered her £25 compensation for this error but rejected the rest of the complaint.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr H had suggested that his mother be 
paid £150. Our investigator didnt think M&S had done anything wrong apart from the 
incorrect information in the 17 October letter and she thought £25 compensation was fair.
Mr H didnt agree and said the bank had accepted it was responsible for delay and it should 
pay more compensation. It had inserted an unnecessary step in asking his mother to contact 
the CAA. He said it was obvious that as T had gone out business the flights would not be 
provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the frustration experienced by Mrs H and by her son, but I do not consider I can 
uphold this complaint for the same reasons set out by our investigator. I will deal with the 
chargeback and the potential claim under s 75. However. it is worth noting that the essence 
of this complaint is the delay in obtaining a refund. 
It is also worth noting that several partied were involved in this transaction and it was not 
simply a matter of T going out of business meaning that Mrs H was entitled to a refund. Her 
contract was with S which was still trading and it was seeking to provide alternative flights. 
Only once it had been established that it wasnt able to do this and it had failed to make a 
timely refund was it reasonable to pursue a chargeback. It may be worth explaining what a 
charge back is. 
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
The bank has said that it one shot at a chargeback and it wanted to be sure it put forward 
the best case. That is a reasonable approach to take. The chargeback would be against S 
and it was right that the bank established in writing that S had failed to provide the service. 
Simply saying that T had gone out of business wasnt sufficient to justify a chargeback.
The bank was wrong to refer Mrs H to the CAA, but S had also done this and I dont think 
this contributed significant delay to the claim. So, I dont believe the bank did anything wrong 
in dealing with the chargeback apart from the error in its letter of 17 October.
Turning to the matter of the s 75 claim I agree that one could have been made before the 
chargeback was processed. M&S has explained that it seeks to use the chargeback 
mechanism where appropriate before s 75. 
I have to consider whether the actions of the bank in its approach to a s 75 claim caused a 
delay. Mrs H was asking for it to pay out over £2,000 and it is right that the bank asked for 
clear evidence that there was valid claim. In short it required the same evidence that it 
sought for the chargeback claim. In that regard I dont think that its failure to pursue a s 75 
claim had any meaningful effect on the delay.
I agree that it took over four months for the refund to be made, but one must bear in mind 
there was a failure by a major holiday company and obtaining the evidence to show there 
was valid claim took time. I appreciate it was stressful period but I believe the bank acted 
fairly in its handling of the claim.
My final decisionMarks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay £25 if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman