DRN-2747591
The complaint
 Mr J complains about TSB Bank plcs actions when restricting his account and the customer 
service he received. Mr J would like compensation. 
What happened
 In December 2019, Mr J attempted to make a payment to a new payee using his online 
banking. TSB blocked this payment for security purposes and asked Mr J to phone their 
fraud prevention team.
During the phone call, Mr J was asked a number of security questions to verify his identity. 
One particular question Mr J refused to answer  he said hed already answered one similar 
and thought it was unnecessary. As the question wasnt answered, TSB asked Mr J to 
attend his local branch with identification. Mr J wasnt happy and asked to speak to a 
manager  but the advisor he spoke to refused to escalate his call.
Mr J complained and TSB offered him £25 compensation for the poor service hed received. 
Mr J remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator thought TSB should pay more to put things right. She explained that TSB 
were right to restrict Mr Js account  and agreed that the security questions were pre-
populated and there to protect Mr J. But she recognised the service he received and thought 
it could have been better. So she asked TSB to pay an additional £25 compensation.
Both Mr J and TSB didnt agree. Mr J thought more compensation was warranted and TSB 
didnt agree they had acted inappropriately. Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think TSB should pay Mr J additional compensation to put things right. 
Ive explained the reasons for my decision below.
In December 2019, Mr J tried to make a payment o a new payee using his online banking. 
The payment flagged for review and TSB restricted Mr Js account and asked him to phone 
their fraud prevention team.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr J to realise he couldnt process his 
payment through. But Im satisfied, this was a protective measure to ensure it was Mr J who 
requested and set up the payment. TSB, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must 
take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations and Im satisfied 
their actions were necessary in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for all financial institutions to ask customers to verify their identity 
through a range of security questions when discussing personal and financial information 
over the phone. Im aware Mr J was asked a number of questions from TSB  and one of the 
questions asked Mr J to confirm his date of birth. A question that followed asked Mr J to 
confirm how old he would be on his next birthday. Mr J didnt think this question was 
necessary as hed already confirmed his date of birth  and therefore his age. I appreciate 
why Mr J feels this way, but I cant fairly agree. TSB have explained how their security 
questions are generated  and Im satisfied that the advisor wouldnt have chosen the 
specific questions Mr J was asked and wouldnt have been able to amend the questions 
once she realised Mr J was unhappy with it.
Banks have a duty to protect their customers and their money. And therefore, its important 
TSB verified Mr J before removing the limitations on his account. I cant fairly say TSB did 
anything wrong by asking Mr J these questions to ensure the transaction was genuine. And 
therefore, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint on this point. 
Ive thought carefully about the service Mr J received. Its evident from the call that it wasnt 
productive, and I think both TSB and Mr J could have handled things better at times. That 
being said, its clear Mr J was upset by the process and he asked to speak to a manager to 
raise his concerns, but the TSB advisor refused. TSB has explained that its not their usual 
process to pass a customer through to a manager and they dont think a manager would 
have been able to resolve the issue. I cant fairly agree with them. Id expect TSB to have a 
clear escalation process available for when their customers are unhappy. And I consider if 
the call was passed to a manager and TSBs security processes were explained correctly, 
the overall outcome could have been different. Which could have resulted in Mr J not 
needing to make further phone calls or visits to branch due to this situation. Ive also taken 
into account TSB have already admitted they could have handled the call better and offered 
Mr J £25 compensation.
Its clear this situation has caused Mr J considerable distress  and while I recognise some 
of that was due to him refusing to answer the relevant security questions, I think TSB could 
have done more to explain things to Mr J and escalate his concerns when he asked. 
Therefore, I agree with the investigator that further compensation is warranted.
Putting things right
 Overall, Im satisfied TSB acted fairly when restricting Mr Js account to ensure the 
transaction was genuine. And Im satisfied that to verify Mr Js identity, they had to ask him a 
number of security questions. However, I do think their customer service fell short with the 
refusal of passing Mr J to a manager when he asked due to his distress with the situation.  I 
think, in the circumstances of this complaint and whats happened, a total of £50 
compensation is a fair amount to put things right.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr J a total of £50 
compensation. Im aware TSB previously offered Mr J £25 compensation and therefore if 
they have already paid this amount to Mr J  then they should pay him an additional £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman