DRN-2868392
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1987. At the start of the policy it 
cost £3.75 per month. The policy covered only Mr M and wouldve paid £250.00 per month 
for up to 12 months per successful claim if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because:
I think it is likely that Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs M aware that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. Mr and Mrs M say they were told 
the PPI was a condition of being granted the mortgage. Yet the policy was only set up to 
cover Mr M. That suggests that they were able to choose not to take the policy  at least 
for Mrs M. So, Im not persuaded by what theyve said. Especially given that the policy 
was sold over thirty years ago, which can lead to memories becoming less reliable. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M, and it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While they had 
some savings (equivalent to about six months of their combined salaries), Mr M wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay. So, it seems likely their finances wouldve been stretched if Mr M 
was unable to work for an extended period. While Mrs M may have been able to pay the 
mortgage entirely from her own salary, that doesnt mean the PPI was unsuitable for 
them. It wouldve paid their mortgage for up to 12 months per claim, protecting their 
standard of living and their savings from being depleted, and reducing the risk of them 
falling behind with their repayments.
I think Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have bought it. The cost appears to have 
been affordable. And if the cost was significantly different to Mr and Mrs Ms 
expectations, I think they raised this with Bank of Scotland upon receiving the policy 
schedule (a copy of which they provided to us). The policy schedule clearly set out the 
monthly cost and the monthly benefit.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. For example, 
Mr M didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman