DRN-1700578
 
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
In 2007 Mr H took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, he took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). That type of plan sometimes included other types of 
cover, such as life cover or critical illness cover. But in this case, the plan consisted purely of 
PPI. It would have covered Mr Hs monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for accident, sickness, disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Halifax on 25 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
Our adjudicator had explained that Halifax hadn't got copies of all the paperwork from 
the sale, and that shed based her recommendation on examples of documents 
Halifax used when selling PPI at the time. She thought it was likely from those that it 
had made it clear that Mr H had a choice about taking out the PPI. But Id seen 
copies of several of the documents that Halifax actually provided to Mr H at the time, 
which were specific to his mortgage. So Id taken them into account in reaching my 
decision.
 
Mr H has told us that the PPI wasn't discussed as optional, and that Halifaxs adviser 
told him it was a package, and that the cost was the overall cost.
 
Id been provided with a copy of the Demands and Needs Statement that Halifax 
prepared, following discussions with Mr H. It says that a need had been identified to 
help Mr H maintain his mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to 
unemployment, accident, sickness or disability. And it said Halifax recommended that 
he take out the optional TMPP policy to help him with his mortgage repayments in 
those circumstances. Halifaxs computer records of the discussions say that the 
adviser also discussed including critical illness cover in the TMPP, but that Mr H 
declined it due to the cost. However, he accepted the recommendation to take PPI. This supported my view that Mr H realised at the time that the various different types 
of cover were optional.
 
Id also seen the mortgage illustration and the mortgage offer that Halifax gave Mr H. 
Both include sections about insurance. They explain, reasonably clearly and 
prominently, that Mr H didn't need to take out any insurance through Halifax. They 
explain that he did have to take out buildings insurance, but it didn't need to be with 
Halifax. TMPP Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI) is listed under a heading 
Optional insurance, and the mortgage offer says Mr H had chosen to take it out. 
 
Id also borne in mind that when Halifax wrote to Mr H to confirm that his application 
for the TMPP had been accepted, it said, under a heading Important Information 
that This product is optional; it is not a condition of your mortgage. And the cost of 
the PPI is set out clearly and separately in the mortgage offer.
 
Taking everything into account, I was satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr H 
that the PPI was an optional, separate product. And I thought he decided to take it, 
knowing that he had a choice  although I could understand why he may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H. This meant it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for him. Based on what Id seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
thought it provided useful cover for him.
 
I acknowledged that Mr H has told us hed have been entitled to 12 months full pay 
from his employer if hed been off sick. Based on what weve seen in other cases,12 
months full sick pay would have been unusually generous given the type of work that 
Mr H did. But the PPI would, in any event, have paid out in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy payments Mr H was entitled to from his employer. So he could have 
used those to meet other expenses.
 
I acknowledged that Mr H has told us he had savings at the time, worth at least 12 
months of his pay. He hasn't been able to provide any evidence of this. But Id borne 
in mind that Mr H chose to protect his savings, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant that he could have continued to 
keep his savings, or used them for other things if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his 
job.
 
Taking everything into account, I thought the PPI cover could have been useful to Mr 
H. And I thought the peace of mind that it provided would have been important to 
him, given that the mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on his 
home, and the consequences of falling behind with his mortgage payments could 
have been serious.
 
The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the mortgage illustration and offer. So I 
thought Mr H would have understood how much hed need to pay for it. And since he 
was paying for the policy monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time without further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the 
cover. I noted that Halifaxs records show that Mr H did, in fact, cancel the policy in 
2008, around four months after it started.
 
I accepted that it was possible that Halifax didn't point out the main things the policy 
didn't cover (for example, unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions). But from what Id seen of his circumstances at the time, it was unlikely 
Mr H would have been affected by any of these. So I didnt think better information 
would have put him off taking the PPI.
 
Id taken into account all Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about having agreed to 
take the mortgage and PPI because he was young, and a nave and uneducated buyer, 
buying his first home. But I was satisfied from the evidence provided that Mr Hs individual 
needs were discussed with him before he agreed to take the PPI. I thought it was clear what 
the purpose of the cover was, how much it would cost, and that Mr H had a choice about 
taking it out. And I thought he decided take the policy because he wanted the protection it 
offered. So while Id thought carefully about what Mr H has said, these points didnt change 
my conclusion.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Mr H has provided extensive further comments. But as he acknowledges, much of what he 
says reiterates what hed already told us before I issued my provisional decision. I've taken 
all Mr H's further submissions into account, but I'll comment specifically on the following.
Mr H has commented that I used uncertain language in my provisional decision. Hes 
commented that In a court of law you have to be absolutely certain before making a 
decision. He believes that I cant make a decision in Halifaxs favour using words such as 
likely. But my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks 
most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr H has mentioned that hed always been in continuous employment when he took out 
the mortgage and PPI. He says hed never been made redundant or taken a days sick 
leave. And he adds that 13 years later, that remains the case. 
But PPI, like other types of insurance, is designed to cover the policyholder if something 
unexpected happens. And Mr H couldnt have been sure that he would always 
remain employed in the future, or that he wouldnt have to take time off due to accident or 
sickness. So I dont think Mr Hs past employment record meant that the PPI was unsuitable 
for him.
Mr H has reiterated that the PPI was sold to him as part of a package. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, Halifaxs records show that the only type of cover included in Mr Hs 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) was PPI. And they show that adviser did also 
discuss including critical illness cover in the TMPP, but that Mr H declined it due to the cost.Mr H believes that its unacceptable that his memory of events should be questioned. He 
says his memory is 100%. But while I dont doubt that Mr H has given us his honest 
recollection, I wouldnt expect anyone to have a detailed memory of exactly what was 
discussed at a meeting that took place more than a decade ago. And Ive taken all the 
evidence thats been provided by both Mr H and by Halifax into account in reaching my 
decision.
Mr H has commented that the PPI was of no use to him, and he says that when he became 
aware that he could cancel it without it having any effect on his mortgage, he did so. As I 
acknowledged in my provisional decision, Mr H cancelled the policy around four months after 
it started. But that doesnt change my view that hed agreed to take it out in the first place, or 
that he would have known at the time that the PPI was optional.
Mr H has commented again that he had access to significant savings, and was able to save 
substantial amounts, which he says is evidenced by the fact that he paid his mortgage off in 
2014. But as I commented in my provisional decision, Mr H had chosen to keep hold of the 
savings he had when he applied for the mortgage, rather putting them towards his purchase 
and taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant that he wouldnt 
need to use them to make his monthly mortgage payments if he was off sick or lost his job. 
So I dont think that the fact that Mr H may have had significant savings made the PPI 
unsuitable for him.
Finally, Mr H has suggested that Halifax pressured him into buying an unnecessary and 
unsuitable product for his needs. But while I accept that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr 
H, pressure is another matter. And I cant fairly decide its likely that Halifax pressured him 
into taking the PPI, based purely on his recollection of a meeting that took place so many 
years ago. 
Mr H has asked to be provided with any recording of the meeting that Halifax may have. 
No such recording is available. But I remain satisfied, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, 
that there was some discussion about the types of insurance available under the TMPP, and 
that Mr H decided to take the PPI, knowing that he had a choice.
I have carefully reviewed and considered everything that both Mr H and Halifax have 
provided. And having done so, Im not satisfied that theres any good reason to depart from 
the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman