DRN-3713442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Skipton Building Society mis-calculated their monthly mortgage 
payments. They ask that Skipton corrects their account and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R chose a new mortgage product in January 2021. This was to take effect in 
May 2021. As Mr and Mrs R hadnt paid the arrangement fee by early April 2021 Skipton 
applied the fee to their mortgage account. It wrote to Mr and Mrs R with their new monthly 
payments.
Mrs R called Skipton later in April 2021 and paid the arrangement fee. Mrs R became 
concerned that their monthly payments were higher than shed expected and that shed paid 
the arrangement fee twice. 
Our investigator said that Skipton had removed the arrangement fee from Mr and Mrs Rs 
account, and their monthly payments were now right. However, Skipton hadnt followed its 
own processes. It applied the arrangement fee to Mr and Mrs Rs account without trying to 
contact them first. And it didnt tell Mrs R that the monthly payments could be re-calculated 
after she paid the arrangement fee. Our investigator said Skipton should pay £150 
compensation for this.
Skipton agreed that some compensation was due, but said £150 was too much and wasnt 
justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R had an interest only buy to let mortgage. They wanted to live in the property 
and switch to a residential mortgage. In January 2021 Skipton recommended switching to a 
repayment mortgage. It recommended a mortgage product and issued a mortgage 
illustration. This said Mr and Mrs Rs monthly payments would be about £1,185, on a capital 
repayment basis. Skipton said Mr and Mrs M were told during the advised call that this was 
an estimate and the actual amount would be confirmed when the product rate was applied. 
Mrs R said she wanted to pay the arrangement fee (£995) rather than add it to the mortgage 
balance to avoid paying additional interest. Mrs R says she was told she had to pay the fee 
before the product took effect (on 1 May 2022).
Skipton hadnt received the arrangement fee by 5 April 2021. It added it to the mortgage 
balance and wrote to Mr and Mrs R saying it had done this. It confirmed the new monthly 
payment would be just over £1,207. This was about £22 higher than suggested in the 
mortgage illustration it issued in January 2021. 
Mrs R called and paid the arrangement fee. Skipton removed it from the mortgage balance. 
Mr and Mrs R havent paid the fee twice. They did pay interest on the fee for about 14 days. 
The total additional interest was about one pound, which Skipton refunded. Mrs R says in 
effect theyre paying the arrangement fee twice due to their monthly payments being higher 
than agreed. Ive explained why this isnt the case below.
Skipton says its usual process is to try to contact the customer about paying the 
arrangement fee before adding it to the mortgage balance. It didnt do that here. I think Mr 
and Mrs R would have paid the fee if it had done so. This would have avoided the fee being 
added temporarily to their mortgage balance, and the upset this caused. 
Skipton also says it should have told Mrs R in April 2021 that she could ask for the monthly 
payments to be re-calculated after she paid the arrangement fee. It says it doesnt do this 
automatically when the difference in the payments is small, as was the case here. But it will 
do so when requested by customers. Skipton has since refunded the overpayments, which 
totalled about £2. 
Mrs R wants their monthly payments to be £1,185, as set out in the mortgage illustration. But 
this isnt something I cant fairly require Skipton to do. Skipton agreed to apply the product 
interest rate to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. Skipton calculates the monthly payments based on 
the mortgage balance, the remaining term and the interest rate. It told Mrs R that the 
balance and the remaining term changed between January and May 2021. This isnt 
because Skipton changed the term  in fact the recommendation says the term wouldnt be 
changed. This is because over three months passed between the mortgage illustration being 
issued in January 2021 and the new rate being applied on 1 May 2021. As the mortgage is 
being repaid over a shorter period, each monthly payment needs to be higher. Skipton says 
it cant provide calculations to Mr and Mrs R to show how their monthly payments are 
calculated, so this isnt something I can fairly require it to do.
I dont think Mr and Mrs R are out of pocket. Skipton removed the arrangement fee from their 
mortgage balance, recalculated their monthly payments and refunded the overpayments. Its 
letters to Mr and Mrs R confirmed that its applying the interest rate they chose. 
But Skipton did make errors and this caused upset and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs R. 
When considering what compensation is fair and reasonable I need to take into account the 
effect this had on Mr and Mrs R. Mrs R says she been worried about their payments being 
wrong for some time. She contacted Skipton in late 2021 and again in April 2022, which 
supports this. Skipton didnt re-calculate Mr and Mrs Rs monthly payments to reflect the 
arrangement fee being removed, or tell Mrs R this was an option, until April 2022. Skipton 
says the amounts involved are small, and I dont dispute that. But this was something Mrs R 
was worried about, and she says shes lost faith in her payments being correct. Some of this 
upset could have been avoided if Skipton had followed its process in April 2021. Overall, I 
think compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Skipton Building Society to pay £150 to Mr 
and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman