DRN-3045177
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she was financing through an agreement with
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA), trading as Citroen Financial Services.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Miss C has been represented during this complaint but for ease, and as Miss C is named on
the finance agreement, I will refer only to her in this decision.
Miss C took receipt of a new car in September 2015. She financed the deal through a
conditional sale agreement.
Miss C only completed about 2,000 miles a year and she was surprised in late 2020 to find
that the engine failed on the car and would need replacing.
Although she had by that time completed paying for her finance agreement and had taken
ownership of the car she still thought PSA should be held accountable for its quality. She
didnt think it was reasonable for a car to fail after it had only completed about 9,000 miles
and she asked to return the car to PSA.
PSA didnt agree. They said they were no longer responsible for the car and explained that
even if they were Miss C would need to demonstrate the engine had failed because of a fault
developing at the point of supply; when they were responsible for it.
Miss C referred her complaint to this service. She has provided a report from a garage she
has used to complete her servicing and also a short report from another independent
garage. Both of these reports suggest that the small end bearings have failed prematurely,
and that the car was surely not of an acceptable quality when supplied.
Our investigator explained that legislation still held PSA responsible for the quality of the
vehicle when supplied even if the finance agreement had been settled. But she didnt think
Miss C had provided sufficient evidence the car had a fault from the beginning, and she
didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Miss C didnt accept the investigators view and she therefore asked for a final decision by
an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PSA, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion and
Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. That legislation
says that when we think about whether a car has been of acceptable quality we should
consider if it has been durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was
brand-new so I think a reasonable person would expect many miles of trouble-free driving
and for the car not to have any faults when supplied.
PSAs responsibility for the quality of the car at the point of supply is not extinguished by the
expiration of the agreement.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when PSA were responsible for its quality. But
if a fault occurs after the first six months, as is the case here, the onus is on the consumer to
demonstrate the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
I think Miss C has been able to do that. I say so because:
I think the bar is pretty low. I dont think any reasonable person would consider an
engine to have been durable if it only lasted about 10,000 miles;
Miss C has provided evidence from a couple of garages who concur with that view.
Its true that Miss C was a customer of one garage and that garages independence
could be questioned and that the other garage only provided a brief statement. But I
dont think they needed to provide a detailed analysis of the cause of the problem.
Miss C had provided evidence that the car was serviced each year in line with the
manufacturers guidelines and I think its reasonable to suggest an engine failure at
10,000 miles would therefore be considered premature; 
Miss C has provided an email from the dealership who have explained that the
manufacturer had previously contributed to similar repairs on cars that were less than
five years old. I think that suggests there was at least an awareness this was a
known issue with this type of vehicle.
So, Im persuaded this car hasnt been suitably durable and Ive therefore thought about how
PSA should put things right for Miss C.
Putting things right
Miss C has now sold the car for scrap without repairing it and says she has lost out as aresult as she only obtained £1,981 for it and shes provided evidence to substantiate that.
As I think PSA should have repaired the vehicle I think they should refund the difference
between what the vehicle sold for and what it would have been likely to sell for if it had been
in working order.
Ive checked the price guide and can see that the CAP clean figure at the point it was sold
was £4,207.
Im therefore asking PSA to refund the difference of £2,226.
Miss C has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to escalate her complaint to
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and shes had to arrange for
inspection reports and to take the car to the garage. In those circumstances I think PSA
should pay her £200 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell PSA
Finance UK Limited to:
pay Miss C the difference in sales value between what the car would have sold for
had the engine been replaced and the value it realised. I calculate that figure as
£2,226.
pay Miss C £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA didnt provide any further information and Miss C agreed with my provisional decision 
and provided a little further information to explain why it had been necessary, and sensible, 
for her to sell the car.  
Putting things right
Ive not seen any additional information that would lead me to change my provisional 
decision so that decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell PSA Finance UK Limited 
to:
pay Miss C the difference in sales value between what the car would have sold for
had the engine been replaced and the value it realised. I calculate that figure as
£2,226.
pay Miss C £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman