DRN-4059093
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the information Rothesay Life Plc provided regarding the value of his 
personal pension benefits. 
What happened
Mr O was originally a member of a defined benefit pension scheme, and it seems Mr Os 
benefits were used to set up a deferred annuity for him. This annuity was later transferred to 
Rothesay from the previous provider. In June 2022, six months before Mr Os intended 
retirement date (IRD) of December 2022, Rothesay began estimating the value of Mr Os 
pensions benefits. It sent Mr O his six-month estimate in August 2022, explaining that the 
value wasnt guaranteed and that it would issue an updated quote with guaranteed values 
three months before Mr Os IRD.
In September 2022, three months before Mr Os IRD, Rothesay sent him an updated quote. 
It explained Mr O could access his benefits directly from Rothesay but would need to do so 
within the next three months, or it would need to recalculate the quote. 
Mr O accessed his pension benefits with Rothesay. But he complained that the tax free cash 
(TFC) values it provided had fallen between August and September 2022, and he wanted 
an explanation.
Rothesay said it started calculating the six-month estimate in June 2022 but didnt issue it 
until August 2022, so it updated the factors it used in those calculations to reflect market 
conditions in August 2022. Similarly, its September 2022 quote was calculated using 
September 2022s factors to reflect current market conditions. Rothesay explained TFC 
values werent simply calculated as 25% of the transfer value as Mr O thought, but were 
broadly 25% of the expected pay-out across Mr Os lifetime. It further explained that it had 
been required to restrict Mr Os TFC to ensure that the Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) that Mr Os pension included could be paid, and the GMP calculation was based on 
factors that changed in line with market conditions. And recent market conditions meant
Mr Os TFC had decreased.
Mr O brought his complaint to our Service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
Rothesays August 2022 estimate made clear the figures werent guaranteed and would be 
recalculated, whereas its September 2022 quote was guaranteed for three months. She said 
Rothesay had explained to Mr O how it had calculated the figures and shed not seen 
evidence its calculations were incorrect. And while Rothesay shouldve sent the six-month 
estimate earlier, this hadnt caused Mr O any detriment as it was never guaranteed. 
Mr O disagreed. He asked why Rothesay hadnt sent the six-month estimate earlier, and 
said it firstly told him it used June 2022 factors, but then said it used August 2022 factors 
Mr O said this estimate should be accurate even if it wasnt guaranteed. He thought 
Rothesay must already have estimates for June, July and August 2022 and wanted it to 
provide these to show the market movements. He also wanted Rothesay to explain how it 
calculated the TFC and what number it based this on, even if this was complicated.
Our Investigator passed Mr Os request to Rothesay. But Rothesay explained it would need 
to do further work to provide these estimates and, in any case, it wouldnt normally have sent 
a series of estimates to Mr O, and he wouldnt have been able to accept them as they would 
have been for illustrative purposes and not guaranteed. And its TFC calculations were based 
on commercially sensitive information.  
But Mr O still wanted Rothsay to explain the TFC calculations in more detail, as he wanted to 
understand how it calculated this figure and what amount it was based on. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Rothesay to do anything further here. I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr O, but Ill explain my reasons.
Six months before Mr Os IRD, Rothesay began calculating the estimated value of his 
pension benefits. It didnt send this to Mr O at that time but instead sent it to him about two 
months later, in August 2022. Mr O is unhappy with this delay and with the lack of clarity 
about when this estimate was calculated, though I note Rothesay has now clarified that it 
calculated the six-month estimate using June 2022 factors. 
But I dont think Rothesay has made a significant error here such that it has caused Mr O to 
lose something he otherwise would have had. Rothesay wasnt obliged to send Mr O any 
estimate of his retirement benefits at that particular time, but nonetheless it did. And Im 
satisfied that its six-month estimate made clear to Mr O that it wasnt guaranteed and hed 
be sent a new quote three months before his IRD. So it was never the case that Mr O could 
have accepted the six-month estimate, whether it was based on June 2022 factors or August 
2022 factors. The only quote Rothesay guaranteed for Mr O was the one it sent him in 
September 2022, which I understand Mr O used to access his pension benefits with 
Rothesay. I note Rothesay told Mr O this quote used September 2022 factors, and that Mr O 
isnt pointing to any error in terms of how Rothesay calculated this quote.
Mr O wants Rothesay to provide him with estimates for June, July and August 2022 so he 
can see the market movements for himself, and he thinks Rothesay must already have these 
available. But Rothesay has confirmed it would need to carry out further work to calculate 
and provide these estimates. And as Ive explained, I dont think Rothesay has made any 
significant errors that caused Mr O to lose something he otherwise would have had. Given 
this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to tell Rothesay that it must provide 
Mr O with all these estimates, especially since they would make no difference to either 
Mr Os pension benefits or to me reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Os 
complaint. 
Mr O is also unhappy that the TFC value fell between August and September 2022, and 
wants Rothesay to explain its TFC calculations in more detail. For reasons similar to those 
Ive already given, Im not going to ask Rothesay to do that. Im satisfied Rothesay has 
already given Mr O a reasonably detailed explanation about its approach to calculating TFC 
values and why they decreased in his case, although I realise this explanation isnt to Mr Os 
satisfaction. But Im satisfied that Rothesay has explained to Mr O that TFC isnt simply 
calculated as 25% of the transfer value as hes suggested, but rather is broadly calculated 
as 25% of the expected pay-out across Mr Os lifetime. It explained that it had been required 
to restrict Mr Os TFC in order to ensure his GMP could be paid. And that the GMP calculation was based on factors that changed in line with market conditions, and recent 
market conditions meant Mr Os TFC quote had decreased. 
Rothesay has argued its TFC calculations are based on commercially sensitive information. 
That aside, its important to note that TFC calculations are complex. So even if I thought it 
was the case that Rothesay hadnt given Mr O a reasonably detailed explanation about its 
TFC calculations, which I dont, I cant see that Rothesay providing a more specific 
breakdown about this would necessarily further Mr Os understanding of its TFC values. 
For these reasons, Im not asking Rothesay to do anything further here. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman