DRN-3116858
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under his HomeCare policy when he contacted it about a problem with his hot water.
References in this decision to BG include references to its agents and contractors.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr H noticed a fault with his hot water system. Hot water was being sent to 
his cylinder all the time the central heating was on, and, due to the cold weather, the central 
heating was on a lot. His hot water was therefore extremely hot. He contacted BG and was 
given an appointment on 10 February 2021, some six weeks later. On the evening of 9 
February, BG contacted Mr H to say his appointment had been cancelled and had been re-
booked for 16 February.
Mr H was very unhappy with BGs delay in coming to address his problem as he was 
concerned about the effect the constant high temperature might have on his copper cylinder 
and the potential damage and injury that might occur if the cylinder failed. He says he was 
told hed receive a call back from a manager within 24 hours, but he didnt receive a call.
On the evening of 11 February Mr H noticed that the cylinder was leaking from its base. He 
switched off the heating and ran off all the hot water and phoned BG. An electrical engineer 
and then a heating engineer attended the same evening and managed to drain off the 
cylinder. This left Mr H with no heating. Another engineer came the following morning to 
measure the cylinder and to collect a new one. A new cylinder was delivered and fitted, and 
a new 3-way valve, which was the cause of the problem, was also fitted.
Mr H was unhappy that once hed reported that his cylinder was leaking, hed had six 
different engineers in his home in less than 24 hours. This was at a time when he and his 
wife, who are both vulnerable due to their age, were supposed to be maintaining social 
distancing because of Covid 19 concerns. Mr H says they felt very unsafe. BG did not offer 
any follow up or apology other than an apology in a letter of 22 March for having missed the 
appointment scheduled for 10 February and offering Mr H £20 compensation. Mr H 
responded to explain that hed had to have the ceiling below the water cylinder redecorated 
due to water staining, but this wasnt acknowledged.
Mr H says he hasnt suffered financially apart from the cost of paint for his ceiling. But he 
says he and his wife experienced considerable upset due to their concern about the 
dangerous situation posed by their cylinder, the cold they experienced, and the number of 
people entering their home when the COVID - 19 pandemic was increasing their 
vulnerability. He says he wants a proper response from BG and for it to listen to him, and 
more realistic compensation than the £20 BG has offered him.
In its response letter of 22 March, BG agreed with Mr Hs complaint about the level of 
service hed received. It offered him £20 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
missed appointment and for the delay in responding to his complaint.
In addressing the level of compensation, BG has said that whilst the problem with the hot 
water temperature did need to be addressed, it wasnt considered to be an emergency given 
that Mr H had heat and hot water, and priority was being given at that time to vulnerable 
people who didnt. Its view was that Mr H could easily adapt to using his hot water in a safe 
way. When a leak from the cylinder was reported on 11 February, it had attended almost 
immediately. It explained that given the nature of the fault, it wasnt possible to establish the 
exact cause of the leak over the phone and it is sometimes necessary for engineers with 
different specialisations to attend. An installations team was needed to replace the cylinder, 
and an engineer had to fix the faulty valve. 
BGs view is that the 3-way valve sticking and the cylinder leak were unrelated and that the 
valve sticking wouldnt cause a cylinder to leak. Mr H, who has some experience in this area, 
doesnt agree and attributes the leak to the effect of constant high temperature on his 20-
year-old copper cylinder. 
BG says that the missed appointment on 10 February was due to the pressure on work 
schedules due to engineer industrial action and the COVID  19 pandemic and government-
imposed restrictions, namely the enforced isolation of engineers with COVID - 19 symptoms. 
This affected the scheduling of non-essential work.
As Mr H wasnt satisfied with the £20 compensation offered by BG, or that BG had 
satisfactorily addressed his complaint, he brought it to this service. Our investigators view 
was that BG hadnt acter unfairly. Mr H doesnt agree with our investigators view and has 
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final response from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
BG didnt treat Mr Hs hot water problem as an emergency. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. He continued to have hot water and heating. I think its reasonable for BG to 
prioritise its vulnerable customers who dont have heating and hot water, particularly at a 
very cold time of year. I therefore dont consider that BG has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in not scheduling an appointment sooner than it did.
With regard to the cancelled appointment on 10 February, I do accept that this was poor 
service, but so does BG, and it has offered £20 compensation for this. This figure is in line 
with the size of award that this service might require a business to pay in such 
circumstances, so I dont consider it to be unreasonable.
Turning to the events following Mr Hs report of a leak, I consider that BG acted very 
promptly here. Two engineers with different skills attended the same evening to address the 
problem, and further engineers attended the following day to fulfil the various tasks that 
needed to be done to replace the old cylinder, repair the faulty valve, and restore Mr and Mrs 
Hs heating and hot water. So the whole problem was resolved within 24 hours.
I can appreciate that the many engineers coming and going from their home at a time when 
Mr and Mrs H were trying to maintain social distancing for their own protection wouldve 
been very upsetting for them. On the other hand, BG was doing all that was necessary to 
restore Mr and Mrs Hs heating and hot water as quickly as possible. I dont consider that in 
these circumstances BG has done anything wrong or acted unfairly of unreasonably. The alternative might have been a repair spread over a number of days which I expect would 
have caused greater upset and inconvenience.
Finally, I should also address that part of Mr Hs complaint that relates to BGs response to 
his complaint. As our investigator has said, this service doesnt have the jurisdiction to 
consider complaints about complaint handling because any such complaint isnt about a 
financial service. So unfortunately Im therefore unable to address Mr Hs complaint about 
how his complaint has been dealt with.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Im not going 
to ask British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything other than to pay Mr H the £20 it offered 
him if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman