DRN-3447590
The complaint
Mr O complains that the loans he had from Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans)
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr O had three loans from Dot Dot Loans between January 2020 and September 2020 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 10 Jan 2020 £500 6m £156.10 17 Jul 2020 5 Mar 2020
2 12 Mar 2020 £650 9m £136.68 18 Dec 2020 20 Jun 2020
3 19 Sep 2020 £650 9m £132.55 18 Jun 2021 21 Sep 2020
Mr O says Dot Dot Loans should not have approved the lending as he was in financial 
difficulty and very vulnerable at the time. He says he applied for the loans in desperation 
but ended up in a cycle of debt. Mr O says he doesnt feel Dot Dot Loans carried out 
sufficient checks before lending to him and its left him struggling to pay bills and in a 
worse financial situation.
Dot Dot Loans says it asked Mr O about his income and expenditure and checked his 
credit record. Dot Dot Loans says it verified his income and reviewed the expenditure 
using statistical averages as guidance. It found Mr O had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the payments.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that 
proportionate checks for loans 2 and 3 would have shown Dot Dot Loans that Mr O was 
spending significant amounts on gambling and was unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay the loans. Our adjudicator recommended that interest and charges should be 
refunded on loans 2 and 3 (plus 8% statutory interest), and that adverse information 
about the loans should be removed from Mr Os credit file.
Dot Dot Loans responded to say, in summary, that it was not required to obtain bank 
statements and so would not have been aware of the gambling. It says Mr O said the 
loan was for a holiday, which was a non-essential expenditure, and was repaid early with 
a bonus from work. It adds that loan 3 was returned after three days as the funds were no 
longer required.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr O and to Dot Dot Loans on 28 March 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
For loan 1 I was satisfied that Dot Dot Loans had carried our proportionate checks 
and that there was nothing in the available information to indicate further checks 
were required or that the repayments were unsustainable.
I was also satisfied that the checks for loan 2 were proportionate to the 
circumstances because:
oMr O had repaid his first loan early with no missed payments;
oThe credit check showed no defaults, no repayment or debt management 
plans and no active short-term loans;
oDot Dot Loans calculated Mr O had disposable income of £900 with which to 
make the £136 repayments;
I found the results of the checks did not show Dot Dot Loans needed to carry out 
further checks, nor that Mr O was already struggling financially, and so I was satisfied 
it made a fair lending decision;
When Mr O applied for his third loan in eight months, with the application amount 
increasing each time, I considered this may be an indication he was becoming reliant 
on the lending and that Dot Dot Loans should have ensured it fully understood his 
financial circumstances;
I found proportionate checks were likely to have shown:
oA significant expenditure on gambling transactions  over £5,000 in a month;
oTwo loans, totalling £15,000, were taken out earlier in September 2020;
I was satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown clear signs that Mr O 
was already struggling to manage his money and that further lending was 
irresponsible.
My provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Os complaint about loan 3.
Dot Dot Loans did not respond to the provisional decision and Mr O responded to say he 
had no further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot 
Loans) should:
Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr O towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 3;Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr O which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr O originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
Pay Mr O the total of A plus B;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Dot Dot Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Dot Dot 
Loans should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman