DRN-2328637
The complaint
Mr W complains that St James's Place Wealth Management Plc (St Jamess Place) provided 
incorrect information about his pension transfer.
What happened
In 2010, Mr W instructed St Jamess Place to review his various pensions. As part of the
review process, they requested information from the pension providers. Scottish Life (now
part of Royal London), told St Jamess Place that Mr Ws pension had a protected pension
commencement lump sum (PCLS  more commonly known as a tax free cash (TFC) sum).
They confirmed the maximum TFC calculated on A-Day was £19,453.13. St Jamess Place
then advised that with reference to this pension specifically, Mr W shouldnt transfer it to
St Jamess Place, as hed lose the enhanced TFC.
St Jamess Place carried out another review of Mr Ws pensions in 2017. This didnt include
the Royal London pension.
In 2018, St Jamess Place carried out another review on Mr Ws pensions, including the
Royal London pension. In early 2019, Royal London told St Jamess Place that the
information theyd provided in 2010 was incorrect. They explained the £19,453.13 was
referring to the uncrystallised fund pension lump sum (UFPLS). The TFC was actually
around £9,000.
St Jamess Place initially challenged Royal London and stated this had nothing to do with
UFPLS. But then updated Mr W with the new TFC figure and recommended that Mr W
transfer this pension to St Jamess Place.
Mr W became concerned as he had previously been told hed get an enhanced TFC sum.
He was also concerned that he could have transferred in 2010 and consequently, by not
doing so he had lost out financially.
Raising his complaint with St Jamess Place, Mr W explained that he sought compensation
for:
The incorrect advice he received (whether that be regarding the advice received in 
2010 or 2018/19); and
St Jamess Places failure to review the Royal London pension when carrying out the 
2017 review.
He also asked St Jamess Place to provide a clear explanation of how he went from having
enhanced TFC to no longer having it  through no fault of his own.
Explaining that hed planned to use the TFC to pay off some of his mortgage. Mr W was
unhappy that he would incur additional interest on his mortgage, as he wasnt able to meet
the deadline for making the additional payment, at the time of raising his complaint.
In May 2019, St Jamess Place sent their final response letter. They explained that the
advice they gave to Mr W in 2010, not to transfer the Royal London pension was appropriate
based on the information Royal London had provided. They also explained that they stopped
the transfer process regarding Mr Ws remaining pension(s) due to the conflicting information
received. And recommended Royal London investigate the matter and provide Mr W with
accurate details of the PCLS in writing, before any further consideration was given to the
replacement of the Royal London pension plan.
With reference to this not being reviewed in 2017, they explained there was no mention of
wanting that pension to be reviewed at the time. And after having received the suitability
letter from St Jamess Place, they would have expected Mr W to inform them if he wanted
his Royal London pension to be considered when reviewing his other pension transfers.
Unhappy with their response, Mr W brought his complaint to us in June 2019. He explained
that he thought St Jamess Place should pay for any financial loss he has suffered as a
result of the contradictory advice he received from them. Our investigator reviewed the
complaint and explained that St Jamess Place shouldnt be held responsible for the
incorrect information provided by Royal London.
Our investigator concluded that they couldnt be sure if Mr W had specifically asked for this
particular pension to be reviewed in 2017. They explained there wasnt enough evidence to
confirm Mr W was expecting his Royal London pension to have been reviewed.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and so this has been passed to me for a final
decision.
Engaging further with Royal London, they have confirmed that the information provided to
St Jamess Place in 2019 was incorrect. Mr W is in fact entitled to 78.65% TFC.
Having informed Mr W of this, he has expressed his disappointment in St Jamess Place and
how they handled this matter with Royal London. And explained that since he brought his
complaint to us, they terminated their advisory relationship (in September 2019). And when
he transferred his pensions, he was charged a transfer fee.
St Jamess Place have told us that they did all that they could to clarify the pension position
with Royal London and state that Mr W has not suffered any loss if the position confirmed by
Royal London in 2010 is correct. They also state that any inconvenience caused to Mr W is 
as a result of Royal Londons actions  as they misinformed St Jamess Place in 2019.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Royal London has confirmed that the information they provided St Jamess Place in 2010
was correct. They have said the information provided in 2019 should consequently be
disregarded. In light of this, St Jamess Place has confirmed they wouldnt have changed the
advice given in 2010. Therefore, this neednt be considered any further.
Incorrect information provided by Royal London in 2019
I would agree with St Jamess Place that Royal London should have investigated what
happened. But I dont agree that it was Mr Ws responsibility to ask Royal London to do this.
St Jamess Place had been instructed to review Mr Ws pensions and then provide suitable
advice.
Having looked at the suitability reports St Jamess Place had previously sent to Mr W, I can
see theyre very detailed (some 15 pages). And they cover all relevant pension plans.
Getting to the bottom of this matter with Royal London should have formed part of the reviewprocess. St Jamess Place clearly doubted the information Royal London provided. They
wouldnt have challenged them otherwise. By not looking into this further and telling Mr W to
do this himself, St Jamess Place fell short of the service they had been asked to provide.
Financial loss
Mr W is concerned he may have suffered financial loss because he received different advice
in 2019 compared to 2010. Ive already explained why the advice given in 2010 neednt be
considered any further. Mr W wanted to access his funds before his April 2019 mortgage
anniversary. St Jamess Place stopped engaging with Royal London on 22 March. Ive 
therefore chosen this date as the fund value baseline.
Royal London have confirmed that the TFC value on 22 March 2019 was £26,927.55. It is 
therefore broadly in line with the current value. Mr W hasnt decided to access this fund,
despite having been informed by us of the correct value earlier this year. As such, I cannot
say that he has lost out financially in this regard, as the fund remains invested through
Mr Ws choice.
However, Mr W has told us that he had planned in 2019, to use the TFC to pay off a
significant portion of his mortgage. He has showed us evidence that this was his plan. With
Mr Ws consent we have contacted his mortgage provider. They have confirmed that Mr W
did utilise his 10% penalty free overpayment in April 2019 and did so again this April.
They explained to us that if Mr W had made an additional overpayment during that period, it
would have resulted in him incurring a penalty. They have confirmed that the penalty
wouldnt have made it worthwhile and so they would have advised against it. In this regard, I
cannot conclude that St Jamess Place actions have resulted in Mr W losing out.
Mr W has also queried the fees he incurred when he transferred his policy out. In their letter
to Mr W, St Jamess Place informed him that his ongoing advice fees had been terminated
with immediate effect. The letter explained why they felt they could no longer act for him.
They didnt advise him to transfer his funds held with them.
St Jamess Place have an early withdrawal charge, which is explained in their Key Facts
Transfer Value Illustration. When Mr W transferred his pension, this was triggered as the two
more recent funds transferred into St Jamess Place were within six years of the transfer out.
Im therefore of the view that the fee Mr W incurred (£2,822.55) was reasonable and in line
with the policy. He hasnt therefore suffered any loss.
Distress and Inconvenience
The overall stress and inconvenience Mr W experienced was avoidable. Whilst 
Royal London are responsible for the incorrect information, St Jamess Place ought 
reasonably to have done more to resolve the situation for Mr W. For this reason, Im minded 
to direct St Jamess Place to give Mr W £250, by way of an apology
The response to my provisional decision 
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision. But has also asked that further consideration be 
given to whether St Jamess Place should cover his early repayment fees with reference to 
him paying of part of his mortgage. He has said he is looking into redeeming monies from 
Royal London and paying off part of his mortgage, but there would be a penalty for this early 
repayment.
I have explained to Mr W that this isnt something St Jamess Place can be held responsible 
for. Mr W had previously expressed a desire to pay off a portion of his mortgage. And 
according to his mortgage provider, this was done at the time. He therefore hasnt lost out in this regard. Further, St Jamess Place cannot be held responsible for the terms of Mr Ws 
agreement with his mortgage provider. As such, they are not responsible for any early 
repayment penalty he may now incur if he chooses to pay off part of his mortgage.  
Mr W was given time to respond to this, but we havent heard from him.
St Jamess Place have also accepted my provisional decision. That said, theyve asked that 
it be made clear that:
it was clarified with Royal London by the Partner in a series of e-mail exchanges between 
11 March 2019 and 22 March 2019. These e-mails were included in our file submission to 
the FOS sent on 6 August 2019 and demonstrate that on more than one occasion Royal 
London had reinvestigated and repeated their position that Mr W was only entitled to 25% 
TFC.
I can see that some emails were exchanged between this time. But, having read the content 
of these email exchanges and the emails sent to Mr W advising him to pick the matter up 
with Royal London himself, Im still of the view that St Jamess Place could have done more. 
Therefore, this hasnt changed my view. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with new evidence to consider, I still think 
St Jamess Place should have done more to resolve the situation for Mr W. As such, £250 
should be paid to Mr W, by way of an apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint and direct St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to pay Mr W £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman