DRN-2909626
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays by MBNA Limited when updating his credit file. Mr J also 
complains about the service provided after he complained. 
What happened
In mid December 2020 Mr J made a payment to of around £8,000 to clear his credit card 
balance. Once the payment was received, Mr J owed around £10. 
Mr J has told us a few months later he applied for a loan but was given a higher interest rate 
than initially discussed with the lender. Mr J says he went on to check his credit file and 
found his MBNA credit entry hadnt been updated to show his balance as being repaid. Mr J 
says this is the reason he wasnt given a lower interest rate. 
Mr J complained to MBNA and forwarded screen shots from three different credit reference 
businesses. Only one of the entries was showing the correct outstanding balance. MBNA 
didnt uphold Mr Js complaint and said it had updated the credit reference agencies in good 
time. Mr J went back to MBNA and said its response didnt answer his complaint. Mr J 
complained about the way his case was handled and the service he received. MBNA didnt 
uphold this complaint and Mr J referred his concerns to this service. 
An investigator looked at Mr Js complaint but said they thought MBNA had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr J asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has told us he believes MBNA took too long to update his credit file after he cleared the 
balance in December 2020. MBNA has explained that it updates the credit reference 
agencies monthly and that it did record Mr Js payment after he made it. MBNA has provided 
systems information that shows the details it reports to the credit reference agencies. I can 
see the balance was updated to £10 after Mr Js payment in December 2020 was received. I 
havent found any evidence that shows MBNA delayed reporting the updated balance. 
Not all credit reference agencies update at the same time. I think the screenshots Mr J has 
provided demonstrate that. They show that two out of the three businesses he used to check 
his credit file showed the original balance, but one showed £10. MBNA isnt reporting 
separate information to each credit reference agency, it reports the same details to all. The 
fact that one of Mr Js screenshots shows his balance as being £10 shows MBNA did update 
the balance it was reporting. 
As I havent found any delays by MBNA in reporting Mr Js credit card balance Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
Mr J says MBNA failed to answer his complaint fully and went on to provide poor service. 
But I think MBNA has responded to Mr Js complaint and covered off the points he has 
raised. Whilst I understand Mr J didnt accept what MBNA said about how it reported his 
balance, I havent found it failed to respond to the points raised or deal with his complaint 
fairly. 
I can see one of MBNAs complaint handlers ceased corresponding with Mr J about his 
complaint and told him the next step was to refer it to this service. But once a business 
issues a final response and provides rights to this service it can refer its customer to us 
instead of continuing to discuss the matter. I havent been persuaded MBNA treated Mr J 
unfairly in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman