DRN-4036675
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt do enough when he 
had disputed transactions on his credit card.
What happened
Mr A had a credit card issued by Barclaycard.
Mr A says Barclaycard contacted him in August 2020 to question payments on his credit 
card that looked unusual. He says he told Barclaycard that he didnt recognise them as hed 
not used his card since the beginning of lockdown. He says that Barclaycard told him it 
would send him a new card and an indemnity form which he had to complete and return so 
that it could investigated the transactions. Barclaycard says it has no record of this call. 
Barclaycard does, however, say that it applied a Covid payment holiday to Mr As card in 
August 2020 meaning he didnt have to make any payments towards his card for three 
months  in other words until November 2020  in any event.
Mr A says that he didnt receive the new card or indemnity form hed been told hed be sent 
and that in November 2020 he received a text message to say that his case had been 
closed. Barclaycard, on the other hand, says it sent Mr A several claim forms which he never 
sent back or filled in online. Barclaycard says it closed Mr As case and held him liable for 
the disputed transactions because it needed the form in order to investigate his claim.
Mr A phoned Barclaycard on 1 December 2020 to find out what was going on with his claim. 
He says the agent he spoke to told him Barclaycard had made a mistake, that his account 
would be put on hold and that he didnt need to make payments in the meantime. Mr A says 
he cancelled his direct debit following the call and once again waited to hear back from 
Barclaycard. He says Barclaycard didnt get back to him.
Barclaycard applied a late marker to Mr As account because he didnt pay anything towards 
his outstanding balance in December 2020. Ms A was unhappy about this and complained to 
us. Barclaycard also started writing to Mr A to say his account was overdue. Mr A 
complained about this too saying that Barclaycard had said his complaint had been 
escalated to the highest level and he shouldnt have been the one who had to do all the 
chasing  he should have been entitled to pay nothing until he heard back.
Two investigators have looked into Mr As complaint.
The first investigator asked Barclaycard to put collection activity on hold whilst we 
investigated Mr As complaint. Barclaycard agreed to do so. Despite this, Barclaycard wrote 
to Mr A several times during 2021 chasing him for payment and sent him a default notice. 
Barclaycard says it re-applied the holds to Mr As account each time it sent a letter in error 
as it accepted it had agreed not to chase him for payment. In addition, the first investigator 
asked Mr A to complete and return Barclaycards indemnity form so that Barclaycard could 
investigate the payments he was disputing. Mr A returned Barclaycards indemnity form in 
November 2021  more than a year after the event. He disputed two transactions totalling 
£156.84  an online transaction and a cardholder present transaction  when he did so.
Barclaycard agreed to refund the online transaction  which was for £80  but not the 
cardholder present transaction  which was for £76.84. Barclaycard also offered £50 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the call in December 2020 had caused.
Barclaycard says that Mr As outstanding balance was approximately £7,100 once the refund 
had been processed and that as that balance was made up of genuine undisputed 
transactions it was going to re-start collection activity. That was in December 2021. We told 
Mr A what Barclaycard was going to do. Barclaycard says Mr A still didnt pay, and that it 
ultimately defaulted his account. Barclaycard did so in March 2022. Mr A said that hed 
complained to Barclaycard about adverse information it had applied to his credit file, had 
been told that his complaint had been escalated to the highest level and had been told not to 
make payments in the meantime. So, he wasnt happy with what Barclaycard had done.
A second investigator looked into Mr As complaint in 2022.They thought that it was unfair of 
Barclaycard to record a missed payment on his credit card for December 2020 given that the 
agent Mr A had spoken to had told him that he didnt need to make his usual payment. But 
they also thought that the compensation Barclaycard had offered  £50 for the distress and 
inconvenienced Mr A had been caused  was fair in the circumstances. They didnt think that 
Barclaycard had handled Mr As disputed transaction claim unfairly as he didnt return 
Barclaycards indemnity form when he was originally asked to do so. In any event, our 
second investigator didnt think it would have made a difference if Barclaycard had refunded 
Mr A in August 2020 as hed ultimately only disputed £150s worth of transactions meaning 
he had an outstanding undisputed balance of around £7,000 which he should have been 
making payments towards. Mr A disagreed with our investigators recommendations saying 
that he was the only one who was suffering and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
Earlier on this month I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold this 
complaint and require Barclaycard to refund an additional £603s worth of disputed 
transactions  something Barclaycard had agreed to do following my involvement. In 
addition, I said that I was minded to require Barclaycard to pay Mr A £500 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. I asked Barclaycard if it was willing to 
refund the additional £603s worth of disputed transactions after I became involved because 
I was satisfied that Mr A hadnt authorised them and that they would have been refunded 
had Barclaycard dealt with his disputed transactions claim properly when it was first raised. 
And I said Barclaycard should pay Mr A £500 in compensation having taken into account the 
distress and inconvenience Barclaycard had caused Mr A when it had chased him for 
payment despite agreeing that it would place his account on hold whilst we investigated.
I gave both parties an opportunity to comment on what I said. Barclaycard was happy with 
my provisional decision and so accepted it. Mr A didnt reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has agreed to refund an additional £603s worth of disputed transactions on top 
of the £80 it has already refunded. In my provisional decision, I said I thought that was a fair 
outcome as far as Mr As disputed transactions claim was concerned. In my provisional 
decision, I then identified the issues that I thought were left for me to decide. I identified five 
questions that I still had to decide which were:
whether it was unfair of Barclaycard to record the fact that Mr A missed a payment in 
December 2020;
whether it was unfair of Barclaycard to chase Mr A for payment whilst we were originally 
investigating his complaint;
whether it was unfair of Barclaycard to chase Mr A for payment after it had refunded him 
for one of the two transactions he ultimately disputed;
whether it would have made a difference if Barclaycard had got the refund right in August 
2020; and
whether the compensation Barclaycard has offered  £50  is fair in the circumstances.
missed payment in December 2020
In my provisional decision, I said that I agreed with our investigators that it was unfair of 
Barclaycard to record the fact that Mr A missed a payment in December 2020. I remain of 
that view  the agent Mr A spoke to in December 2020 repeatedly said that he didnt have to 
worry and that everything would be taken care of when he asked whether hed had to make 
his usual payment. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr A not to pay that month. I also 
remain of the view that Mr A couldnt reasonably have taken what the agent said to mean 
that he could stop payments completely, particularly given that he had a substantial genuine 
balance before the disputed payments had taken place  of almost £6,500. But as I said in 
my provisional decision there was another reason why I think Barclaycard shouldnt have 
been chasing Mr A for payment between January and November 2021, namely the fact that 
Barclaycard had agreed to put Mr As account on hold whilst we investigated.
chasing Mr A for payment whilst we were originally investigating his complaint
In my provisional decision I said that Barclaycard agreed to put collection activity on hold 
when our first investigator asked them to do so. I also said for that reason, rather than 
anything the agent Mr A had spoken to had said, that I agreed Barclaycard shouldnt have 
been chasing Mr A for payments between January 2021 and November 2021. I said that 
Barclaycard did so several times and that each time Mr A complained to us, and we spoke to 
Barclaycard we were told hed been chased in error, that the hold had been re-applied, and 
that Mr A could ignore the letters hed received. For those reasons, I said that I was satisfied 
that Mr A had been caused significant distress and inconvenience for which he hasnt yet 
been compensated. I said I could also see that Barclaycard had recorded the fact that Mr A 
had missed payments during that period  and defaulted him in August 2021 too  during 
this time, which I considered to be unfair. I remain of that view.
In my provisional decision, I noted that Mr As credit file says that his Barclaycard account 
defaulted in March 2022 rather than August 2021. So, I considered whether or not Barclaycard defaulting Mr A in March 2022 was unfair or not.
chasing Mr A for payment after it had refunded him for one of the two transactions he 
ultimately disputed
In my provisional decision, I said that I was satisfied that Barclaycard took Mr As account off 
hold in December 2021 having refunded one of the two transactions he disputed in 
November 2021. I said I didnt think that was unreasonable of Barclaycard given that Mr A 
had only disputed £156.84s worth of transactions meaning he had an outstanding balance 
of approximately £7,000 that he didnt dispute  particularly given that Barclaycard had 
agreed to refund one of those transactions meaning that £76.84 at most was still in dispute. I 
also said that I could see that wed spoken to Mr A and told him that Barclaycard was going 
to start chasing him for payments again, so he needed to set up a new direct debit or include 
the balance he wasnt disputing in a debt management plan or make other arrangements. I 
said that I appreciated that he, like many others, had a lot going on at the time, and that 
Barclaycard had chased him for payments throughout 2021 only to say that it had done so in 
error as it had agreed to put collection activity on hold whilst we investigated. But I also said 
that by December 2021 the only transaction Mr A appeared to still be disputing was a 
cardholder present transaction for £76.84  in other words, a payment he more than likely 
made  which wouldnt justify withholding the rest of the balance that he appeared to accept 
he owed  a balance of around £7,000. So, I said I didnt think that was unreasonable of 
Barclaycard. I remain of that view.
In my provisional decision I said that its now clear that the balance that Barclaycard asked 
Mr A to start making payments towards in December 2021 included £603s worth of 
unauthorised transactions. In other words, his genuine balance was around £6,500 instead 
of around £7,000. I said that it didnt feel fair to say that it was Mr As fault for not disputing 
those three transactions when he completed the indemnity form in November 2021  more 
than a year after the event  but equally it didnt feel fair to say to Barclaycard that it wasnt 
entitled to chase an outstanding balance that as far as it was concerned was at that point 
genuine and undisputed (except for possibly £76.84s worth which given the other amounts 
involved doesnt feel particularly relevant). I remain of that view. It follows that I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable of Barclaycard to record the adverse information it did on Mr As 
credit file from December 2021 and onwards.
would it have made a difference if Barclaycard had got the refund right in August 
2020?
In my provisional decision I considered what difference, if any, it would have made if 
Barclaycard had got the refund right in August 2020. I noted that Mr As finances, given his 
circumstances and Covid, were under considerable strain  and that hed told us he just 
about kept his head above water until the January 2021 lockdown. Having done so, I said 
that even if Barclaycard had refunded £603 in August 2020, I thought it was likely that he 
would still have got into the difficulties he did, but later on than he otherwise did. I remain of 
that view.
In my provisional decision I noted that Mr A had said that had it not been for the missed 
payment Barclaycard recorded in December 2020 he would have been able to refinance 
borrowing hed taken out at a cheaper rate and that had he avoided any adverse information 
for a little while longer he would have been able to include the balance he owed Barclaycard 
in a Covid scheme that he was accepted on. In other words, hed said that had it not been 
for Barclaycards actions he would have kept his head above water.
In my provisional decision I said that Id thought very carefully about everything Mr A had 
said on this point  and that wed spoken at length and in detail  but on balance I didnt think the refund would have been the difference between Mr A keeping his head above 
water and not. I added that Mr A had agreed to send me evidence showing he would have 
been able to refinance had it not been for the December 2020 late marker, but ultimately 
hadnt done so. Mr A still hasnt sent me that additional evidence. In the circumstances, and 
having thought about this point very carefully again, I remain of the view that a refund 
wouldnt have made the difference between Mr A keeping his head above water and not.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said that I thought Barclaycard had caused Mr A significant 
distress and inconvenience throughout 2021 when it repeatedly sent him letters chasing him 
for payments despite having agreed to keep his account on hold whilst we investigated. I 
also said that wed only awarded Mr A compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
the call on 1 December 2020 caused  and that wed said that the £50 offer is fair. 
Having taken everything into account, and all the mistakes Barclaycard made and more 
importantly the distress and inconvenience these caused, I said in my provisional decision 
that I considered an award of £500 would be more appropriate. I remain of that view. So 
thats what Im going to require Barclaycard to pay Mr A in addition to refunding the £603s 
worth of disputed transactions its agreed to reimburse following my involvement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Barclays Bank UK PLC:
to refund an additional £603s worth of disputed transactions as agreed following my 
involvement; and
to pay Mr A £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
in full and final settlement of this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the £500 
compensation directly to Mr A but can refund the additional £603s worth of disputed 
transactions by reworking Mr As account, including recalculating any interest he might have 
paid if it wishes to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman