DRN-4252308
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost through spread 
betting.
What happened
Mr S opened a HSBC credit account and used it to transfer money to a financial spread 
betting account. Mr S later complained to HSBC because he felt that they shouldnt have 
allowed him to make transfers to a financial spread betting account and should therefore 
reimburse the transferred money to him.
HSBC responded to Mr S and explained that while they do block transfers from credit 
accounts to gambling accounts, spread betting isnt classified as gambling and the merchant 
code for the companies to which Mr S transferred the money werent gambling merchant 
codes. Because of this, HSBC didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by allowing Mr S to 
make the transfers from his credit account that he had, and so declined to reimburse those 
transfer amounts to him. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, especially as a HSBC press release stated that 
HSBC would prevent transfers from credit accounts to spread betting accounts. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, HSBC reiterated 
that they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by allowing Mr S to make the transfers from 
his account. But they did acknowledge that their press release had been incorrectly worded 
and that theyd taken longer than they would have liked to assess Mr Ss concerns, and they 
offered to make a payment of £150 to Mr S as compensation for this.
After completing their review of this complaint, our investigator didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and felt that the £150 offer of compensation 
offer by HSBC for the length of their complaint assessment was fair. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr S feels that because HSBCs press release included that HSBC would block all transfers 
from credit accounts to spread betting accounts, that HSBC should reimburse him all the 
money he was able to transfer from his HSBC credit account to his spread betting account.
Its now acknowledged by HSBC that the press release Mr S refers to here was incorrectly 
worded. HSBC have now corrected this to reflect the true position of what types of transfer 
they wont allow to be made from a credit account.
HSBC have confirmed that they wont allow transfers to gambling accounts from credit 
accounts. And HSBC have further explained that the mechanism by which this is enforced is 
based on the merchant code of the company to which the transfer is being instructed  with 
transfers to companies with a gambling merchant code not being allowed.
But financial spread betting isnt categorised as gambling, and this means that the merchant 
codes for spread betting firms isnt a gambling merchant code  and in turn this means that 
HSBC will allow transfers to such companies from credit accounts to complete.
I can appreciate that Mr S is unhappy that HSBCs press release was worded incorrectly. 
But I dont feel that the incorrect wording of that press release means that HSBC should 
fairly be instructed to reimburse the transfers that Mr S made to spread betting firms as he 
would like.
There are several reasons for this. These include that Mr S opened his HSBC credit account 
in August 2022, and in that month made four transfers to his spread betting account. As 
such, I feel it reasonably should have been evident to Mr S from that month that HSBC 
werent blocking the transfers he was making to his spread betting account. And I feel that if 
Mr S wasnt happy about this, he could have contacted HSBC about the matter at that time.
Notably, the account statements appear to show that Mr S didnt make further transfers to a 
spread betting account until the turn of the new year, several months after he opened his 
HSBC credit account and made the initial transfers. And I feel that this large gap between 
transfers to spread betting accounts gave Mr S ample time to raise any concerns he might 
have had at that time with HSBC before he made further transfers.
Additionally, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that HSBC would allow the transfers to 
complete, given that spread betting isnt categorised as gambling, as discussed above. And 
while it could be argued that transfers to spread betting companies should be considered as 
high-risk transactions, the terms of the HSBC credit account  to which Mr S agreed when 
he opened the account  include that HSBC wont be responsible if an account holder 
suffers any loss because HSBC havent refused a gambling or other high-risk transaction.
I feel that this last point illustrates that by blocking transfers from credit accounts to gambling 
firms, HSBC are attempting to provide assistance to their account holders. And it isnt the 
case that HSBC are accepting full responsibility for the losses their customers may incur. 
This seems both fair and reasonable to me, not least because it was Mr S who made 
numerous transfers to his spread betting accounts from his HSBC credit account over the 
space of several months. And, ultimately, in consideration of the circumstances of this 
complaint, I feel that its Mr S and not HSBC who should be responsible for any losses that 
he incurred as a result. 
Mr S has raised concerns of a regulatory nature surrounding the incorrectly worded press 
release. But this service isnt a regulatory body, and our investigator has already referred   
Mr S to the relevant regulatory body  the Financial Conduct Authority  should Mr S want to 
notify them of his concerns.
Finally, I note that HSBC have offered to pay £150 Mr S as compensation for the upset and worry he may have incurred because of their taking longer than they would have liked to 
investigate his complaint. This seems fair to me, given that the compensation is only being 
offered regarding the length of HSBCs investigation and not in regard to any other aspect of 
Mr Ss complaint. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour, Ill only be 
doing so on a limited basis to instruct HSBC to pay the £150 compensation to Mr S that 
theyve already offered to pay. And I wont be upholding any further aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint or instructing HSBC to take any action beyond this £150 payment.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £150 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman