DRN-3060417
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled a claim on his car 
insurance.
What happened
Mr H had a Haven car insurance policy. In March 2021, he was involved in an accident and 
made a claim on his insurance to Haven.
Haven initially valued Mr Hs car at £675 and told him it wasnt worth making a claim 
because his excess plus outstanding premiums were greater than this. Mr H disputed this, 
and Haven increased its valuation to £980. 
Mr H still wasnt happy and complained. On review, Haven accepted that during a call in 
April 2021 it told Mr H his car was worth £1,250. It also accepted that Mr H didnt have any 
outstanding premiums. So Haven offered Mr H £1,250, less his £500 policy excess, as 
settlement. It told him it would arrange for its collection agent to recover the car.
Mr H was prepared to accept settlement of £750 but only if he could keep his car. He wants 
to use the settlement amount to try to have it repaired. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Havens valuation of Mr Hs car was too low and thought it should allow Mr H to keep the 
car. He recommended Haven increase its settlement offer and pay Mr H £75 to reflect its 
poor handling of the claim. 
Despite repeated requests, Haven didnt respond to our investigators findings, so the case 
was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy booklet sets out what Haven will pay out if his car is considered a total loss 
(described in the policy as Beyond Economic Repair). Section B, paragraph 7 says: If We 
consider Your Car is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident We will provide 
the owner of Your Car with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage after 
deducting the Excess. Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing Your Car with one of similar make, model and specification, 
taking into account the age, mileage and condition of Your Car. To determine the 
Market Value, we will typically request the advice of an engineer and refer to guides 
and any other relevant sources.
It isnt clear to me why Haven initially valued the car at £675 or where it got this valuation 
from. Nor is it clear to me why it increased this to £1,250 less than two weeks later. 
However, its records show it used a well-known trade guide to value the car at £980.
Ive looked at three trade guides to get a valuation based on the make, model, mileage, and 
condition of Mr Hs car. These valuations range from £2,025 to £975. Given the difference 
between the highest and lowest valuations  and the fact I cant see where Haven got its 
£675 and £1,250 valuations from  I dont think Haven valued Mr Hs car fairly. Our 
investigator suggested a fair valuation would be the average of the three trade guide 
valuations and, in the circumstances of this case, I think this is reasonable. This would be 
£1,487.
Ive thought about Mr Hs request to keep the car. Section B, paragraph 10 says: If We 
make Settlement of the Market Value of Your Car or the Limit of Coverage in settlement of a 
claim b) Your Car will become Our property. So Im satisfied Mr Hs policy says Haven 
can take Mr Hs car. 
However, the car can be repaired. Haven has simply decided it isnt economically viable to 
do so. Haven can do that, but it means Mr Hs car is likely to be a Cat S or Cat N loss under 
the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice for the Categorisation of Motor 
Vehicle Salvage. So I think Mr Hs request to keep the car was reasonable. 
I dont see any reason why Haven shouldnt allow this, and it hasnt explained why it wont. 
Typically, when an insurer allows a customer to retain the car it will usually deduct what it 
would have received when disposing of the salvage (under a commercial arrangement with a 
salvage dealer). That means Haven can make an appropriate deduction from £1,487 when it 
finalises its settlement offer. I leave it to Mr H to decide whether he still wants to do this.
Finally, I dont think Haven handled Mr Hs claim well. For example, its initial valuation of the 
car was unfair, as was its advice that it wouldnt be worth Mr H making a claim. Our 
investigator recommended Haven pay Mr H £75 to reflect this. I think this is fair.
For the reasons above, I think Havens valuation of Mr Hs car and its refusal to allow Mr H 
to keep it was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to:
Increase its settlement offer to £1,487, less Mr Hs policy excess. 
If Mr H wants to keep the car, Haven can make a reasonable deduction for what it 
would have received when disposing of the salvage.
Pay Mr H £75 for the inconvenience it caused him by its handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman