DRN-3125727
The complaint
Ms T has complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms T contacted her home emergency provider to carry out repairs when she found damage 
to her home following a storm. A few days later, Ms T contacted Fairmead to report storm 
damage to her roof. A couple of days later, Ms T told Fairmead there was also damage to 
the chimney.
Fairmead inspected the roof and settled the claim for it, but declined the damage for the 
chimney and didnt settle the claim for internal damage. So, Ms T complained to Fairmead 
about the internal damage part of the claim.
When Fairmead replied, it said it had asked Ms T to provide quotes and evidence of the 
internal damage. It then told Ms T that it wanted to send a surveyor or she could send 
another quote. Ms T sent another quote. Fairmead again said a surveyor needed to visit, as 
the costs were excessive and it wasnt clear that everything in the quote was as a result of 
the ingress of water. Ms T said she didnt want a surveyor to visit. Fairmead offered the 
option of a video call, which Ms T agreed to but then declined because it required her to 
download a third party app. Ms T said the video call could take place using an app she 
already had on her phone. Fairmead said it couldnt use this because it didnt use mobile 
phones to conduct video site visits. Fairmead said Ms T didnt report internal damage at the 
start of the claim and that it couldnt provide a true cost of works without carrying out some 
sort of site visit.
When Ms T complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Ms T 
had tried to co-operate with Fairmead in order to get the internal damage assessed. Ms T 
had since had the damage repaired and had taken steps to limit further damage and, in the 
circumstances, he said Fairmead should cover these costs.
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ms T had a branded insurance policy that included buildings and contents cover 
underwritten by Fairmead and home emergency cover underwritten by a different company. 
The complaint Im looking at is only about Fairmead.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were storm conditions around the time of the 
damage and Fairmead has paid some of the claim on that basis. For the internal damage, 
which is the main issue in this complaint, from what Ive seen Fairmead doesnt dispute that 
at least some of the damage was the result of a storm. The issue is whether all of the 
internal damage was storm related and the cost of any repairs.
Fairmead visited a few days after Ms T first made a claim for external damage. At this point, 
no claim for internal damage had been made to Fairmead. I read a note in Fairmeads 
records that said:
The [insured] spoke to HE [home emergency] who have advised they can look to arrange 
for someone to contact her. The HE contractors called yesterday and have advised they 
can't attend for a few days. The insured has checked yesterday and found the wall by the 
chimney was wet, the insured has since had someone attend who has advised looks like 
damage to the [chimney].
When the surveyor visited, only an external inspection of the property was carried out. Ms T 
told Fairmead:
I informed the Surveyor during his original visit that the chimney area in the down stairs 
room showed signs of water but the damage was not excessive and the room was un-
painted, therefore I would not need to claim.
So, I think it was reasonable that Fairmead didnt consider any internal damage at that time. 
Ms T hadnt made a claim for the internal damage and also said she didnt intend to do so.
The internal damage then seemed to get worse. Ms T has said there were two reasons for 
this. The first was that the home emergency provider didnt visit to carry out repairs. As Ive 
already said, the home emergency provider was a different company to Fairmead and it 
wasnt acting on Fairmeads behalf. So, Fairmead wasnt responsible for whether or not the 
home emergency company visited or any damage that was a result of any failure to do so. 
Ms T also said Fairmead told her not to carry out any external repairs and that, as a result, 
this made the internal damage worse. During the first few weeks of the claim, Ms T made a 
complaint. Fairmead looked at the complaint and passed it to the home emergency company 
because it referred to when Ms T first contacted the home emergency company and didnt 
send someone, which was before a claim had been registered with Fairmead. Fairmead 
asked the home emergency company to refer any issues back that were for Fairmead to 
respond to. I havent seen anything to suggest any parts of that complaint were referred 
back to Fairmead. I also cant see that Fairmead had any reason to think it needed to 
provide any advice to Ms T, as she appeared to be pursuing temporary repairs via the home 
emergency provider. However, about six weeks into the claim, Ms T did seem to ask 
Fairmead about dealing with further damage. Fairmead told Ms T that it was her 
responsibility to mitigate any further damage. I understand that by this point Ms T had told 
the emergency provider that she didnt want it to visit.
From what Ive seen, Ms T asked Fairmead on a few occasions whether she could get one 
of the companies she had quotes from to carry out the full external repairs. Fairmead said no 
because it wasnt satisfied the quotes were reasonable. When Ms T provided a quote that 
Fairmead assessed was suitable, it said the roof repairs could proceed. Im aware that this 
process took a while. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that Fairmead said 
temporary repairs couldnt be carried out and I dont think Fairmeads response on the full 
repair to the roof was unusual.
Ive also looked at how Fairmead dealt with the claim for internal damage. When Ms T said 
she wanted to claim for this damage as well. Fairmead asked Ms T to provide quotes. 
However, Fairmead said these were excessive and covered damage that it didnt think was 
the result of the storm. It told Ms T that it wanted to send a surveyor. She said no to this 
because she didnt want anyone in her home. So, Fairmead offered a video call. Ms T 
initially accepted this but then said no when she realised she would need to download a third party app on to her phone. She said she was unhappy about this because she used her 
phone for work and personal use. 
I can understand that Ms T may have had concerns about how Fairmead wanted to assess 
the damage. But looking at the policy wording, this required policyholders to Give us any 
information and assistance that we might reasonably require as part of dealing with a claim. 
I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to want to inspect the damage because it had 
concerns about whether all the damage was covered and also that the quotes were 
excessive. I think offering an in-person visit and a video call were reasonable suggestions. 
Ms T wasnt obliged to accept either of these requests, but that didnt mean that Fairmead 
then had to settle the claim based on Ms Ts quotes. Im aware that Ms T did suggest 
another way to carry out a video call, but this wasnt compatible with the systems Fairmead 
used to conduct video site visits, so it couldnt use that video facility. This meant it wasnt 
possible to carry out an inspection. 
Looking at the information Fairmead had about the internal damage, I dont think it was clear 
whether the main cause of all of the internal damage was storm related. I think it was 
reasonable that Fairmead wanted to investigate this. I understand that Ms T has now had 
the internal repairs carried out, so I also dont think there is now a way for Fairmead to 
assess the damage. Im also aware that, after the date of the complaint Im dealing with, 
Fairmead did scope the costs based on the information available to it and reached an 
amount for a cash settlement based on the information it had available. So, Ms T may wish 
to discuss this with Fairmead if she hasnt done so already. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 October 2021.
Fairmead said it had nothing further to add.
Ms T provided a number of comments, which I have summarised:
Ms T contacted Fairmead, which told her she should contact the home emergency 
provider. She told the home emergency provider about the internal damage and that if 
the roof damage wasnt resolved, this could lead to further damage.
Ms T chased the home emergency provider daily, but it didnt send anyone. The home 
emergency provider apologised and offered compensation.
Fairmead accepted the roofing claim and external damage. Ms T arranged for two 
quotes, which she provided to Fairmead.
Fairmead/ the home emergency provider told Ms T that if she proceeded with the 
repairs, her claim would be void. She repeatedly tried to resolve the issues with 
Fairmead. Fairmead were clearly fire-fighting with the volume of claims and it appeared it 
couldnt cope.
Fairmead sent a surveyor. Ms T told the surveyor about the internal damage but that the 
damage was minimal at that time and that she wouldnt need to claim. The damage 
intensified with time because of the delays by Fairmead.
Fairmead asked Ms T to get a written quote for the work, which she did. Fairmead then 
requested a second quote. The second quote was slightly higher. Both quotes were 
independent and in writing.
Fairmead then changed the goalposts again, saying the quotes were too high. Fairmead 
asked to send a surveyor, but Ms T wasnt comfortable with this. She also wasnt 
comfortable with downloading an app to her phone. Ms T offered a different video facility, 
but Fairmead declined this. It therefore became clear that Fairmead had no intention of 
honouring Ms Ts insurance policy.The home emergency provider was acting for Fairmead and Ms T wasnt aware that the 
cover would be sub-contracted to another provider when she took out the policy.
The home emergency provider didnt send roofers despite promising to do so.
Ms T believed she provided any assistance and information reasonably required, in line 
with the policy wording.
Ms T said she had sent clear photos of the damage, which she still had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that I have carefully considered all of the comments provided 
by Ms T in response to my provisional decision, even if I dont comment on them here.
Fairmead and the home emergency provider were different companies. Fairmead wasnt the 
underwriter of the home emergency part of the policy. The home emergency policy had a 
different underwriter and I cant consider the actions of that company as part of this 
complaint. I have already commented on this in my provisional decision and I dont think 
there is anything that I can helpfully add to what Ive already said.
I was already aware of what Fairmead did in relation to the claim, including requesting 
quotes, sending a surveyor, offering to send another surveyor and offering a video call. I was 
also aware of why Ms T didnt want a surveyor to visit or to download an app, as well as 
what she suggested as an alternative. I remain of the view that it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to want to investigate the internal damage further and that, in the circumstances, it 
didnt have to settle the claim based on Ms Ts quotes.
It might be helpful if I highlight again that, after the date of this complaint, Fairmead did 
scope the costs based on the information available to it and calculated an amount for a cash 
settlement. So, Ms T might wish to discuss this with Fairmead if she hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman