DRN-1312520
The complaint
Mr W's unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited contacted him to review his agreed repayment 
arrangement and that it didnt take account of his health condition when corresponding 
with him about a transfer of his account.
What happened
In 2017, following some personal financial difficulties, Mr W entered into a repayment 
arrangement with Vanquis. Mr W has a mental health condition of which Vanquis is aware.
In June and July 2019, Vanquis contacted Mr W by both text message and letter asking him 
to get in touch with it to provide some up to date details of his income and expenditure. Mr 
W had thought this was because Vanquis wanted to increase his monthly repayment 
amount.
Given he understood that hed reached an agreement with Vanquis back in 2017 already, 
he felt this was intrusive. This caused him significant concern, which was exacerbated by 
his mental health condition.
In July 2019, Vanquis sold Mr Ws account to a third party. But Mr W wasnt given 
prior notice of that by either Vanquis or the third party.
In response to this complaint, Vanquis provided Mr W with contradictory information 
regarding his account. It said his access to Vanquis mobile app had been suspended 
because of missed payments. Vanquis has since accepted that no payments have been 
missed and that the app was suspended because the account had been sold to a third 
party. Vanquis also told Mr W to contact the third party to set up a new payment 
arrangement.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint. But she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
accepted that Vanquis had made some mistakes but it was entitled to sell the account and 
to review the arrangement periodically to check that it was still affordable. Mr W didnt agree 
and requested an ombudsmans decision.
In advance of this final decision, I sent a provisional decision to the parties. I told them that 
I intended to uphold Mr W's complaint in part and would require Vanquis to pay him £100 
compensation for the way that it had made him feel. Both Vanquis and Mr W accepted my 
decision, Mr W adding that he still thought that Vanquis had been looking to increase his 
monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change 
my findings. So I'm upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. In particular, I dont 
consider that
Vanquis handling of its correspondence about the account transfer took into account Mr 
W's mental health condition and how this news would have affected him. My provisional 
findings were as follows and I confirm that these are now my final findings.
'Our investigator is right that Vanquis is entitled by the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
account to transfer his debt to a third party. Mr W had been led to believe by Vanquis that 
this was because of a payment default by him. But that wasnt the case. Although 
Vanquis has apologised for the mistake in its final response, its important to consider the 
effect that its actions have had on Mr W.
I can understand how Mr W will have felt to think that he hadnt made payments that he 
knew he had. And this was made worse because he was led to believe that this had 
resulted in a transfer of his account to a third party. Vanquis has since told us that Mr Ws 
account was transferred, together with those of a number of other customers, to the third 
party, because it specialises in lengthy repayment arrangements. If Vanquis had clearly 
explained this to Mr W in advance and hadn't made the mistake in its final response, then 
clearly the stress and anxiety that he experienced could have been significantly reduced.
Vanquis has said that it was for the third party to contact Mr W to tell him about the 
transfer. Its true that when a debt is assigned, it's normally the transferee that will give 
notice to the customer. But that doesnt mean that Vanquis didnt have an obligation to be 
clear with its customers about what was happening with their accounts. Given the nature 
of Mr Ws account; his having been in financial difficulty; as well as his ongoing mental 
health condition, it was all the more important in treating him fairly and reasonably, that 
Vanquis was upfront with him about what was happening. Just terminating his access to 
the App, without any prior notice why, wasnt appropriate, particularly as he says he used 
the App to make payments to Vanquis.
Turning to the other correspondence, I know that Mr W is upset that Vanquis contacted him 
to review his account and payment arrangements. But I dont think there was anything 
wrong with it doing that. One of the terms of his payment arrangement was that Vanquis 
would conduct periodic reviews to assess its continued affordability.
Where a customer is in financial difficulties, a lender is required by the rules under which it 
operates to ensure that the lending remains affordable. So I dont think Vanquis did 
anything wrong in contacting Mr W by text message and letter in that regard. I know that Mr 
W thought that this was because Vanquis wanted to increase the payment. And I 
understand why he might have reached that conclusion. But Im satisfied that wasnt the 
case.
Mr W was concerned that he may have had a repayment option plan charge (ROP) added 
to his account. Vanquis has told us that Mr W never had this on his account. So I'm 
satisfied that this isn't something that it needs to consider a refund for.
I also understand that Mr W would like to know the price that was paid by the third party 
for his account. That isnt something that I think Vanquis needs to tell him. It's 
commercially sensitive information. So Vanquis is entitled to keep it confidential.
Vanquis has also told us that all Mr W's payments have been credited to his account. If Mr 
W remains concerned that his account is not showing all the payments he's made, he 
should please let me know in any response to this provisional decision. We can then ask 
Vanquis to follow that up.'Putting things right
Overall, I think that Vanquis could have treated Mr W much better here in the way that its 
gone about transferring his account and telling him about that. Mr W wasnt in default of 
the agreed repayments. But Vanquis is entitled, and indeed obliged, to check that the 
payments remain affordable. Given Mr Ws mental health condition and his financial 
difficulties, of which Vanquis was aware, I've found that it should have given Mr W much 
clearer information about the transfer arrangements than it did. Freezing his access to the 
App without prior notice just made this worse. This has clearly caused Mr W some trouble 
and upset for which I require Vanquis to pay him £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require that Vanquis Bank 
Limited pay Mr W £100 compensation for the way that it has made him feel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
James Kennard
 
Ombudsman