DRN-3417795
The complaint
Mr H complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) when he fell 
victim to an impersonation scam. He is unhappy that NatWest opened and allowed the 
beneficiary account to be used fraudulently.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In December 2019, Mr H sadly fell victim to an impersonation scam and was tricked into 
sending over £8,000 to an account held with NatWest. Mr H believed he was purchasing a 
camper van from a company, which Ill refer to as A. Unbeknown to Mr H at the time, was 
that he was in correspondence with someone posing as A  not A. 
When the camper van didnt arrive on its expected delivery date Mr H became suspicious 
and notified his bank. It contacted NatWest, who returned a small sum which remained in the 
beneficiary account. Mr H complained to NatWest asking that it refund his remaining loss as 
it had allowed a scammer to open and operate an account.   
NatWest didnt agree to refunding Mr Hs remaining loss as it had made no error. It said the 
beneficiary account had been opened correctly, there was no requirement for it to cross 
check the payee name against the name on the beneficiary account and it had taken swift 
action upon receipt of notification. It also explained why it couldnt share specific details 
about the checks it completed at account opening but provided assurances that the account 
opening process and identity checks it has in place are robust. 
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he couldnt fairly say 
that NatWest had done anything wrong. He concluded that NatWest couldnt reasonably 
have prevented Mr Hs loss nor could it have recovered more money. Mr H disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that NatWest should refund his remaining loss as it allowed 
a fraudster to open and operate an account. But an account later found to have been utilised 
to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund. In these 
circumstances I could only direct NatWest to reimburse Mr H his remaining loss if Im 
satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did something wrong where it would be 
fair to ask it to provide a refund. 
Firstly, I appreciate from Mr Hs perspective, having been the victim of a cruel scam through 
no fault of his own why he has so many questions about what happened and how someone 
was able to open and operate an account fraudulently. I can also understand why NatWests 
response that its unable to disclose any information felt unsatisfactory to him. But I do not 
consider that NatWest is obliged to provide detailed information about its security systems 
nor actions it took in relation to a third-party account. That type of information is not generally 
disclosed, because it includes personal data and, sensitive information about a banks fraud 
prevention systems and security processes. I can absolutely see how, to the victim of a 
scam, it would feel unfair that an individual who may have acted dishonestly and criminally is 
protected by privacy rights. But NatWest is required to comply with the Data Protection Act 
2018 (the DPA). And if it does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal 
data (which includes disclosing that information to a third party) it will be in breach of the 
DPA. So overall, in these circumstances, I cant say that NatWest has acted unreasonably 
when it informed Mr H that it was limited in the information it could share with him about the 
third-party account.
However, NatWest is able to and has shared relevant information (that which is available) 
with our service in confidence to allow us to investigate this complaint. But Im limited as to 
how much information I can share with Mr H because it relates to a third-party account. But 
Id like to assure him that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. 
I understand Mr Hs frustration as NatWest cannot provide a copy of the identification 
documents taken at account opening. But that doesnt mean that NatWest failed to prevent 
his loss. Where evidence isnt available or it has been inconclusive or contradictory, I must 
reach my decision about the merits of the complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
In support of his case, Mr H has provided a copy of a newspaper article about a fraudulent 
gang behind multiple international frauds  where promised goods or services were not 
provided following receipt of payment. He specifically highlighted the point that most of the 
accounts used to receive the misappropriated funds were opened using false documents. He 
argues that NatWest could not have done robust checks before opening the account that 
received his payment and is to blame for his loss. He says a fair outcome would be for it to 
refund the money he has lost. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, but I also need to think about (as the article also 
states) the fact that this isnt the only way in which fraudulently obtained money is cleared. 
Sometimes the accounts have been opened in the accountholders name using genuine 
identification documents; sometimes the accounts are established and have been taken over 
without the accountholders knowledge; and sometimes the accountholder is an unwitting or 
complicit money mule. And even in cases where falsified documents may have been used to 
open accounts, sometimes the forgery may be so good, that even with robust checks in 
place bank staff couldnt have reasonably identified this. And in such circumstances, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask a bank to refund the loss. 
In these circumstances, having reviewed everything carefully, Im satisfied that NatWest did 
have systems, processes, and checks in place to stop accounts being opened fraudulently  
and that these met its regulatory requirements. I appreciate NatWest cant provide copies of 
the identification it checked; however, it has confirmed the account wouldve been opened in 
accordance with the account opening processes in place. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that wasnt the case and taking into consideration all the above, on balance, Im not 
persuaded there was an error at account opening or that NatWest could have reasonably 
known at the time of opening the account that it would later go on to be used to 
misappropriate funds.  I also note Mr H has made submissions about where the company he believed he was 
dealing with were based and where the account in question was opened. He feels this ought 
to have raised concerns at account opening. I appreciate the point Mr H is making, but he 
does so on the assumption that the account which received his payment was opened in the 
name of the impersonated company. But, commonly in such scam cases the accounts into 
which victims are tricked into sending their money are not held in the name of the party they 
believe they are dealing with. And at the time the payment was made, there was no 
requirement on receipt of a payment for the receiving bank (here NatWest) to check whether 
the name on an account matched the named payee. So I cant fairly say it couldve 
prevented Mr Hs loss in this way.
Overall, on balance, taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded NatWest 
couldve prevented Mr Hs loss when opening the account or on receipt of his payment. I 
also dont think in this situation, prior to receipt of notification of fraud, there was enough 
evidence or grounds upon which NatWest couldve withheld the funds from its customer and 
reasonably concluded fraud.
And finally, Ive considered NatWests actions on receipt of notification from Mr Hs bank. Im 
satisfied it took appropriate action and returned to Mr H the sum remaining in the account. 
Ive reviewed the account statements, which show that by the time notification was received 
nearly all of Mr Hs money (except the small sum which was returned) had been spent. Im 
also satisfied NatWest couldnt reasonably have done more to recover these funds. And as 
the victim, it would be for Mr H  not NatWest  to report the matter to the Police. As such, I 
dont think I can fairly say that NatWest didnt respond appropriately to notification of fraud or 
that it could have done more to recover Mr Hs money.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman