DRN-3059280
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as V has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business interruption insurance policy after it 
was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr C, a director of V, has brought the complaint on Vs behalf. 
What happened
V held a business interruption insurance policy with AIG. V claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
AIG said Vs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said the core business interruption 
cover required there to have been damage to property and Covid-19 didnt cause damage. 
They said that, although the policy included an extension for notifiable disease, Covid-19 
wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, V brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Vs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Vs claim. 
V asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
V. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Vs claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed 
those sections most relevant to Vs circumstances below.
Damage
The core business interruption cover in the policy provides cover for:
Loss of Income occurring during the Indemnity Period
resulting from Damage to
 Trade Contents or glass insured under this policy, or,
 the Buildings of the Premises shown in the Schedule
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Loss of, Destruction of or Damage to
For this to provide cover, Vs loss of income would need to be as a result of loss of, 
destruction of or damage to trade contents, glass or buildings. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to trade contents, glass or buildings. Therefore, cover 
isnt provided for Vs claim under this section of the policy. 
Notifiable disease 
The cover provided by the policy is then extended by various extensions. The notifiable 
disease extension within the policy was changed in 2019 by an endorsement. This says:
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within 
twenty five miles of the Premises, which by the reason of the abnormal number of 
cases causes prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for 
accommodation, or gives legal grounds for guests to cancel bookings for 
accommodation already made.
The endorsement to the policy also says that the definition for notifiable disease has 
changed. The definition specified on the endorsement document sets out a list of diseases, 
which doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the 
endorsement was added, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar 
policies on the market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies 
which cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Vs 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases. So, unfortunately this extension doesnt provide cover for Vs claim 
either. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome V was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay Vs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman