DRN-3772291
The complaint
Ms R, who operated a business as a sole trader, is unhappy with the service she received 
from Lloyds Bank PLC surrounding her business ceasing trading and her being unable to 
repay a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL).
What happened
Ms R ran a business on a sole trader basis. In May 2020, she successfully applied to Lloyds 
for a BBL of £8,750 and the funds were drawn down by Ms R for her business that same 
month. Because the features of a BBL included that no repayments needed to be paid by the 
BBL account holder for the first twelve months of the loan, the first repayment that Ms R was 
scheduled to make on the BBL was in June 2021.
In May 2021, just before the BBL repayments were due to begin, Ms R contacted Lloyds and 
explained that her business had ceased trading and that she couldnt repay the BBL. Ms R 
contacted Lloyds on several further occasions over the next few months. But throughout her 
interaction with Lloyds, Ms R continued to feel that Lloyds werent understanding or 
considerate of her position and didnt provide her with any form of support.
Instead, Ms R felt that Lloyds had simply followed their own process, which resulted in Ms 
Rs BBL being defaulted and the outstanding BBL balance transferred to a debt recovery 
agency who then contacted Ms R to try to recover the outstanding balance that shed told 
Lloyds on numerous occasions she couldnt afford to repay. Ms R wasnt happy about what 
had happened, or the service shed received from Lloyds, so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Ms Rs complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Ms R 
by following the process that they had, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R wasnt 
satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel Lloyds had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Ms R feels that Lloyds, having been made aware of the 
difficult financial position she found herself in, should have done more to help and support 
her in regard to the BBL payments and balance than they did here.
Ms R hasnt specifically outlined exactly what support she feels Lloyds should have provided 
to her. But it seems to me, having read Ms Rs correspondence with this service as part of 
my review, that Ms R might be suggesting that Lloyds should have tried to help her avoid the 
outcome that ultimately happened here  which was that the BBL was defaulted and that the 
default was reported to Ms Rs credit file, and that she has continued to be pursued for 
repayment of the outstanding BBL balance.
If this was the type of outcome that Ms R was hoping for, then I feel it needs to be confirmed 
immediately that this would never have been possible. 
This is because Ms R took out the BBL for her sole trader business, and because there isnt 
any limited liability between a sole trader business owner and a sole trader business. What 
this means is that Ms R remains personally liable to repay the BBL, even though she no 
longer operates the sole trader business she took the BBL for. 
For this reason, when Ms R couldnt repay the BBL, it was always going to be the case that if 
Ms R continued to be unable to repay the BBL, then it would be defaulted and reported as 
such to her credit file. And its also for this reason that Ms R remains liable to pay the BBL 
balance to the debt recovery company which now administers that balance. And I dont think 
is any form of support that Lloyds could have given to Ms R which could prevented this 
outcome. 
One reason for this is because Lloyds, like all credit providers, have an obligation to default 
loan accounts when those accounts fall into a position of sustained arrears. Theres no 
single industry wide process as to when a loan in arrears should be defaulted. But there is 
guidance on this matter published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)  the 
relevant regulatory body in this instance  which details that a default should generally be 
applied when an account is over three months but no more than six months in arrears.
Lloyds appear to have followed a process thats in line with the ICOs guidance here, and I 
say this because they waited until the BBL was three months in arrears before issuing a 
formal demand notice for Ms R to repay the BBL balance in full, and then defaulted the BBL 
within a further three months when Ms R didnt meet that formal demand notice. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds made Ms R aware of the process that they would follow in 
regard to her BBL account, and I note telephone conversations between Ms R and Lloyds 
where Ms R was told that her BBL would need to fall into a position of sustained arrears 
before the process to default the account could begin. 
Ms R feels that Lloyds should have provided some form of support to her when she first 
made them aware that she wouldnt be able to repay the BBL, which she did in advance of 
the first payment becoming due. 
But as explained, its difficult to understand what support Lloyds could have reasonably 
offered here, given that the BBL was a loan with scheduled required repayment dates, and 
that Ms R couldnt make any payments on those scheduled dates. 
Ms R may contend that, given she was telling Lloyds in advance that she couldnt afford to 
repay the BBL balance, that Lloyds should have written the balance off at that time  before 
the BBL defaulted, so as to avoid that default being reported to her credit file.
But this scenario doesnt seem either fair or reasonable to me. I say this because Ms R drew 
down the BBL funds and benefited from them, and so ultimately it does feel fair to me that 
Ms R should be asked to repay the money that she borrowed and for which she remains 
liable under the terms of the agreement she entered into. And if Ms R couldnt repay that 
money, then it also feels fair to me that the BBL should have been defaulted and reported to 
Ms Rs credit file, as was the case, and which Im satisfied is an accurate report of what 
happened here.
Importantly, this is regardless of any personal or financial difficulty that Ms R may have 
found herself in. And while this may seem somewhat cold, it simply isnt the case that 
scheduled loan payments can be missed without consequence because the person liable for those payments cant afford to pay them, even if that person notifies the loan provider of 
their inability to make those payments in advance. As such, Im satisfied that because Ms R 
couldnt make the scheduled payments on the BBL, that it was always the case that the BBL 
would and should have been defaulted, and that default reported to Ms Rs credit file.
Similarly, I also dont feel that Lloyds werent listening to Ms R as she contends here. 
Instead, it seems to me that Ms R had unrealistic expectations of what Lloyds could and 
should have done, and that she herself may not have fully accepted what she was being told 
by Lloyds  which was that the BBL scheduled payments were fixed and that if she couldnt 
make those payments then the process to begin defaulting the BBL would begin after it fell 
into a position of sustained arrears. And I note that Lloyds explained this position to Ms R on 
multiple occasions. 
Finally, I also dont feel that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Ms R by continuing to send her the 
letters and correspondence that they did regarding the developing position of the BBL. And 
this is because I feel it was incumbent on Lloyds to have kept Ms R formally appraised of the 
evolving position of her BBL account and the potential consequences of non-payment.
All of which means that, while I sympathise personally with Ms R here in regard to the 
difficult position she found herself in, I dont feel that Lloyds did anything wrong or unfair in 
regard to how they managed that position. And this is because while I can understand that 
Ms R may have felt that she shouldnt fairly be held accountable or liable to repay the BBL 
balance and should have received some form of support to help her not repay the BBL 
balance, she ultimately was liable and accountable to repay the BBL  even in consideration 
of her difficult financial circumstances  the funds from which shed previously received.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Ms R was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope that Ms R will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman