DRN-3123524
The complaint
Mr W complains about two personal loans provided to him by Oakbrook Finance Limited, 
trading as Likely Loans, (LL). He said that LL had lent to him irresponsibly. The complaint 
is brought to this service on Mr Ws behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, 
I have referred below to all actions being taken by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W was given two loans by LL. Loan 1 was for £2,000 and was taken out in July 2016. 
Loan 2 was for £3,500 and was taken out in February 2018. Both loans have been repaid. 
Some of the information LL provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 8/7/2016 22/12/2017 £2,000 £151.92 24
2. 1/2/2018 17/5/2018 £3,500 £265.87 24
Mr W said that he took out several loans over a prolonged period from a variety of payday 
loan lenders. He was short every month and using payday loans got him by. But each loan  
made the debt last longer and his debt grew due to large interest rates. Mr W said that he 
literally had to beg and borrow from others. He lived from pay check to pay check with a zero 
bank balance using all his money to pay off debt and bills. But the situation got worse and 
worse with no way out. Mr W eventually borrowed money from a family member so that he 
had no interest to pay and was eventually able to get back on track
In its final response letter, LL said it didnt uphold the complaint. It said that a standard credit 
assessment was conducted, which included a review of Mr Ws credit report. It also 
considered a number of other factors, including the information provided by Mr W in regard 
to his income. It was reliant on customers providing accurate information on application. LL 
calculated Mr Ws net pay and taking into account the creditor commitments it had seen on 
its checks, the contractual monthly instalments were deemed to be affordable and left a 
significant disposable income for expenditure.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He queried whether 
LL had taken into consideration that the loans had been taken out in order to pay off pay day 
lenders. He was using one loan to pay another and so on. Mr W repaid Loan 2 early as he 
borrowed money from his parents so that he didnt need to pay interest. He also said that the 
provision of his expenditure should have been a requirement for LL to see if he could afford 
the loan.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to LL on 23 September 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when LL lent to Mr W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged LL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that LL 
needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement.
 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so LL had to think about whether Mr W could 
sustainably repay his loans. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for LL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr W. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did LL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did LL make fair lending decisions? 
Did LL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
Loan 1The loan was for £2,000. The interest rate (as set out in the loan agreement) was 89.9% 
(89.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£151.92. If Mr W made each payment when it was due, hed pay £3,646.08 in total. Mr W 
said that the loan was to be used for debt consolidation. But I couldnt see that LL had 
obtained any information about the debts to be consolidated. Nor could I see that it imposed 
any requirements about repaying the debts from the loan, which I was aware some lenders 
did.
LL had gathered some information from Mr W about his income. He said this was £25,000. 
LL noted that Mr Ws monthly net pay was around £1,680. LL didnt appear to have gathered 
information about Mr Ws normal expenditure. It had carried out a credit check before it 
agreed the loan. Id noted that LL couldnt supply its actual credit checks before the loan, but 
it had supplied a credit check from the time of Mr Ws complaint around four years later 
which contained data from the previous six years. It said that Mr W had six credit accounts 
and an estimated total balance of £3,430. But I was aware that a lenders credit checks 
might not reveal the full extent of a borrowers credit commitments. 
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with LL. He needed to make 24 monthly 
repayments of £151.92. So, I would have reasonably expected that LL would have wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ws financial situation 
before it provided him with Loan 1. I didnt think that LLs checks here were enough, 
especially as it didnt appear to have asked Mr W about his expenditure. So, I didnt think the 
checks LL made before the loan were proportionate. 
Although I didnt think the checks LL made before providing the loan were sufficient, that in 
itself didnt mean that Mr Ws complaint about Loan 1 should succeed. Id said that I also 
needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
shown LL that Mr W couldnt sustainably afford the loan repayments. 
Loan 2
Id noted that when Mr W applied for Loan 2, it would have been aware that Mr W had 
missed two payments in the previous year on Loan 1. That loan had only been repaid 
around six weeks earlier. But I thought LL ought to have been concerned that Mr W needed 
to borrow again so soon after the repayment of Loan 1, that the loan amount was almost 
double his previous loan amount and that he had missed payments on Loan 1, especially as 
the repayments on Loan 2 were substantially higher than Mr Ws previous loan.
Loan 2 was for £3,500. The interest rate (as set out in the loan agreement) was 89.9% 
(89.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£265.87. If Mr W made each payment when it was due, hed pay £6,380.88 in total. Mr W 
said that the loan was to be used for a holiday. 
LL gathered some information from Mr W about his income. He said this was £26,000. LL 
noted that Mr Ws monthly net pay was around £1,746. LL again didnt appear to have 
gathered information about Mr Ws normal expenditure. It had carried out a credit check 
before it agreed the loan. But again, Id noted that LL couldnt supply its actual credit checks 
before the loan. LL had supplied a credit check from the time of Mr Ws complaint around              
29 months later which contained data from the previous six years. It said that Mr W had 
seven active credit accounts and an estimated total balance of £23,613.
As Id said above, Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with LL. He needed to 
make 24 monthly repayments of £265.87. So, I would have reasonably expected that LL 
would have wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about   Mr Ws financial situation before it provided him with Loan 2. Again, I didnt think that LLs 
checks here were enough, especially as it didnt appear to have asked Mr W about his 
expenditure. So, I didnt think the checks LL made before the loan were proportionate. But 
again, I also needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks 
would have shown LL that Mr W couldnt sustainably afford the loan repayments. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did LL make a fair 
lending decision? 
Loan 1
Id looked at Mr Ws bank statements and credit report to see what better checks would have 
shown LL. Id also asked the investigator to ask for more information from Mr W. I wasnt 
suggesting that these were the checks that LL should have done. But I thought looking at the 
bank statements and credit report gave me the best picture of what the lender was likely to 
have seen had it made better checks. And had LL sought verification of Mr Ws actual 
spending before lending, I thought LL wouldve been in a better position to understand       
Mr Ws financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id seen from Mr Ws credit report that one of his credit cards showed arrears the month 
before the application for Loan 1. The report also showed that Mr W was in an arrangement 
to pay from February 2016 to May 2016 on a hire purchase agreement. Mr W had also taken 
out two short term loans in April 2016 totalling £1,050. Hed repaid a £550 loan but taken out 
another short term loan on the repayment date. At the time of the application for Loan 1,    
Mr W had two outstanding payday loans totalling £1,100. I thought Mr Ws credit report 
suggested that he was having difficulties managing his money.
Id reviewed Mr Ws bank statements from around the time of Loan 1. I could see that Mr Ws 
most recent monthly salary was around £1,550 (and slightly less than this the month before) 
and so was around £130 less than shown in LLs records. I could also see on the statements 
that Mr W was paying two debt collection companies. In addition to the car finance loan 
shown on LLs credit checks, Mr W was paying a bank loan and two payday loans. Mr W had 
repaid a short term loan around two weeks before his application to LL but had then taken 
out another payday loan for £600 on the same date. He was repaying monthly credit 
commitments totalling around £950 and I could see living costs of around £400. In addition,  
Mr W told us he was paying monthly rent of between £400 and £600. I could see that Mr W 
had taken out cash of £650 in the month before the loan which may have been used to cover 
his rent. I could see that Mr Ws commitments exceeded his income and he was relying on 
payday loans to supplement his income. Id also noted Mr W had no overdraft arrangement 
on his accounts. There was also an unpaid direct debit in this period. And I could see that  
Mr W had borrowed two payday loans totalling £740 within 16 days after taking out Loan 1. 
So, if LL had carried out the further checks that I thought were needed for this loan, I thought 
LL ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr W would have been able to 
sustainably repay Loan 1. So, I thought LL should reasonably have concluded that it wasnt 
appropriate to lend Loan 1 to Mr W and so I considered it was irresponsible to have done so. 
I thought LL treated Mr W unfairly when it agreed to lend Loan 1 to him, and I intended to 
say that I was satisfied that Mr Ws complaint about Loan 1 should be upheld.
  
Loan 2
Id looked at Mr Ws bank statements and credit report to see what better checks would have 
shown LL.
  Id seen from Mr Ws credit report that he had taken out four short term loans totalling        almost £2,000 in the three months prior to his loan application. Whilst three of these had 
been repaid, two of these were only repaid on or shortly after the day the next loan was 
taken out. Mr W had one outstanding short term loan of £650 when he took out Loan 2. I 
thought these short term loans suggested a reliance on short term credit by Mr W to 
supplement his income. Id also seen from the credit report that Mr W had taken out a 
hire purchase loan in December 2017. Id noted that the monthly repayment for this loan 
together with the repayment for Loan 2 would have taken up over a third of Mr Ws net 
monthly income. He was also using four credit cards, he was the additional card holder 
on his partners credit card which he was using for household expenditure and he had 
two communications loans. 
I could see on the bank statements that Mr Ws monthly income was around £1,617. So, it 
was less than shown on LLs records. Mr W was still paying two debt collection agencies. He 
was repaying £326 to a hire purchase loan, £256 to a payday loan and more than £2,000 to 
other credit commitments. I thought it was possible that Mr Ws significant total expenditure 
on his credit commitments would have likely led to the repayments on Loan 2 being 
unsustainable for Mr W over the two years loan term. Mr W had no overdraft facility on his 
accounts. I could also see an unpaid direct debit in the month before Mr Ws loan 
application.
In addition, I could see that there were some sizeable transfers to Mr Ws current account 
from another bank account. I asked the investigator to ask Mr W about these. He said that 
these were from a business partnership account. But the income from the business was 
sporadic and uncertain. So, I hadnt taken this into account in assessing whether the loan 
repayments would be sustainable for Mr W.
Again, if LL had carried out the independent view of Mr Ws circumstances that I thought was 
needed for Loan 2, I thought LL ought reasonably to have realised that Mr W was having 
difficulties managing his money and it was unlikely that Mr W would have been able to 
sustainably repay Loan 2. I thought LL treated Mr W unfairly when it agreed to lend Loan 2 
to him, and I intended to say that I was satisfied that Mr Ws complaint about Loan 2 should 
be upheld.  
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or LL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order LL to put things right as follows. 
Putting things right  what LL needs to do
I dont think LL should have agreed to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr W. So, LL should:
  refund all the interest and charges Mr W paid on Loans 1 and 2;
  pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they    
were paid to the date of settlement*; and
  remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to Loans 1       
and 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires LL to take off tax from this interest. LL must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
LL responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr W and LL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require LL to pay Mr W some compensation and take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what LL needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order LL to pay Mr W some compensation and take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what LL needs to do. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman