DRN-2550470
The complaint
Ms D says the mortgage sold to her by a mortgage broker in 2007 was unsuitable. The 
mortgage broker is no longer trading, but responsibility for the complaint falls to Scottish 
Friendly Assurance Society Limited as it acquired the mortgage brokers parent business in 
2015.
Ms D says the mortgage was unaffordable, and she was sold an interest-only mortgage with 
no repayment vehicle.
What happened
In 2007 Ms D took out a £118,000 mortgage to buy a new home. Ms D said she had been 
intimidated from her previous home which had left her with no option but to sell up as she 
feared for her and her daughters lives. She bought her new home without seeing it as she 
needed somewhere to live urgently.
The mortgage was taken out on an interest-only basis over 25 years. The interest rate was 
fixed at 5.74% until 1 January 2009. 
Since then Ms Ds health has sadly taken a turn for the worse, shes had a second child and 
lost her job, all of which had an impact on her ability to pay the mortgage. Despite this, and 
with help from the Department for Work and Pensions, Ms D has managed to maintain her 
payments and has started making extra payments to reduce the debt. Ms D says shes only 
been able to do so due to handouts from friends and family, going without heat and food for 
periods, and using any birthday and Christmas money.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms D didnt agree its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time and the fact the original broker is no longer 
trading, the sales paperwork is no longer held. Ms D has obtained some paperwork from her 
mortgage lender - such as the mortgage offer and some other documents - but we dont 
have anything from the broker.
This has been a difficult case to decide, and Id like to thank Ms D for being so frank about 
her circumstances both in 2007 and over the term of the mortgage. I havent mentioned 
specifics in this decision to protect her privacy, but I would like to reassure Ms D I have read 
and understood everything shes said. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Ms D 
found herself in and I realise things couldnt have been at all easy for her. I know shed like a 
lump sum written off her mortgage to ease her worries, but I can only order that if I were to 
uphold her complaint, and having considered everything thats not something Im able to do.
The regulatory requirements for mortgage lending have changed substantially over the 
years. But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations and normal industry 
practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight or the latest rules.
Ms D has said the mortgage was never affordable, but shes also said she shouldnt have 
been sold an interest-only mortgage without a repayment vehicle. Unfortunately, those 
points cant work together for a complaint like this. To explain, if either a repayment 
mortgage had been recommended or a repayment vehicle to run alongside the interest-only 
mortgage, then Ms Ds payments would have been even higher each and every month. So if 
Ms D is saying this interest-only mortgage was unaffordable, then either of the other options 
would only have made matters worse.
Interest-only mortgages were a lot more common in 2007 than they are now. By having an 
interest-only mortgage the contractual monthly payment is kept lower which helps a 
customer in leaner months, but the customer can overpay up to a certain amount (on most 
mortgages) to reduce the debt as and when they have the means. 
By having the interest-only mortgage Ms D can overpay when she can afford it, rather than 
being tied to making higher payments every month. From what Ms D has said it sounds like 
if shed been sold a repayment mortgage in 2007 then she would have gone into arrears, 
and litigation would have followed which may have led to her losing her house. To give an 
example, Ms Ds monthly payments were around £570 a month at the start of her mortgage. 
If shed been sold a repayment mortgage that would instead have been about £750 a month.
It seems the only option available to Ms D in 2007 was an interest-only mortgage if she 
wanted to buy this new home for her and her daughter. Based on Ms Ds submissions it 
seems that was her overriding priority such that even if things had been made completely 
clear (which Im not saying they werent, as I simply dont have the evidence either way) then 
I think it most likely she would have chosen to proceed anyway.
I understand Ms D is concerned that the copy the lender holds of the Borrower(s) interest 
only declaration is just a file copy, rather than having been completed and signed by her. 
Whilst I acknowledge that point thats not something I can consider here against the broker, 
as that form was something the lender sent out for its own purposes; it was nothing to do 
with the broker. The broker didnt have to get Ms D to sign a form like that and so I cant hold 
the broker liable for the fact the lender doesnt hold a completed and signed copy.
Having considered everything I cant say for sure whether this mortgage was fully explained 
to Ms D as the brokers paperwork from the time is no longer available, but irrespective of 
that Im persuaded, on balance, that Ms D would have taken this mortgage anyway due to 
her circumstances at the time. The mortgage met an urgent need Ms D had, which was to 
fund the purchase of a new property with as low a monthly payment as possible. 
Ms D said she wanted the business to reduce her mortgage by £25,000 to put things right, 
but Ms D could never have been in the position whereby she had a mortgage she could 
afford each month and that the balance would have reduced by £25,000. It seems Ms Ds 
options were this mortgage, or not buying the house. The broker cant give advice on 
whether or not a property should be bought as that doesnt fall within their remit, so all the broker could do was arrange the best mortgage they could for Ms D that would allow her to 
buy the house, whilst keeping her monthly payments as low as possible.
Ms D knew what her monthly income was, so if she felt the monthly payments for this 
mortgage werent going to be affordable for her, then she needed to decide that in 2007 and 
not buy this house. There were no other options. 
Having considered everything, and whilst having a great deal of sympathy for Ms Ds 
circumstances, I simply cant uphold this complaint, however much she may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman