DRN-4287257
The complaint
Mr L complains that Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) irresponsibly granted him a personal loan 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr L took out a personal loan with Oplo. Oplo says the stated purpose 
was home improvements. Under the terms of the loan agreement, Mr L was borrowing 
£12,000 and paying it back by way of 72 monthly payments of £286.67. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £20,640.24.
Mr L had taken an earlier loan with Oplo for a lower sum and repayable over a shorter period 
in July 2018. Our adjudicator has already made a finding about that loan.
Mr L says that Oplo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as he was already struggling with debt, including 
existing credit. 
Oplo didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included using the 
information Mr L gave in his application and information provided by a  credit reference 
agency. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Oplo ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr L.
Oplo didnt agree and said its checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
When Mr L applied for the loan, he told Oplo he was earning a monthly net income of around 
£2,300. Oplo said it checked with a credit reference agency which showed Mr L had around 
£8,500 in ongoing credit commitments plus a monthly mortgage to pay. He also had a 
history of taking out short term high interest loans. He already had three unsecured loans in 
place (including the earlier one hed taken with Oplo), plus a credit card. Oplo also relied on 
statistical data to calculate what Mr Ls monthly household costs and daily living expenses 
were likely to be. Oplo noted that Mr L had had a default with his credit in the past but this 
hadnt been within the past 12 months. Mr L has also sent us his credit report which shows 
that he didnt have any adverse markings on his credit file, such as arrears, and there was 
no recent history of other adverse events such as having a county court judgment registered 
against him. 
From the available information it doesnt look as if Oplo took steps to verify Mr Ls income or 
check on his actual financial situation, such as by asking for actual details about his monthly 
spending. I think it would be reasonable to do so, especially given that this was a second 
and much larger loan that was repayable over a longer period  and therefore a more 
substantial financial commitment. Although Oplo completed a credit check, this would only 
be an indication as to what his regular living expenses were. So I dont think in this case 
Oplos checks can be said to be reasonable and proportionate. 
Had it carried out more proportionate checks before making its lending decision, I think Oplo 
would have been in a much better position to understand more about Mr Ls committed 
expenditure, such as his daily living costs. I cant say for sure exactly what Oplo would have 
found out at the time if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ls bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive seen that Mr L provided our adjudicator with three months of bank statements leading up 
to the lending decision. I agree with our adjudicator that these show that Mr L was not 
managing his finances well. I note he was also reliant on his ex-partner for additional 
income. He has told us this was to help him pay for everyday household items and to buy 
groceries. Ive noted that these extra payments tended to be at times when Mr L had used 
much if not all of his available overdraft. I should say that I think occasional use of an 
overdraft facility is sometimes to be expected. But Mr Ls statements show regular and 
sustained reliance on his overdraft facility. In December 2018 he took out a short term loan 
for £800. Ive also noticed that at the time Mr L was also making regular use of gambling 
sites, which is something Mr L was aware of as being a particular problem given his poor 
financial situation. All of this strongly suggest that Mr Ls financial welfare was already 
deteriorating. And so I think that taking on further debt at this point would only serve to 
accelerate his problems and thereby worsen his financial position and ability to manage his 
existing debt and credit. 
Putting together all the information Ive seen  including the comments Oplo has made in 
response to our adjudicators findings - I think its very likely that Mr L was already financially 
stretched at the time he applied for the loan and that the situation was likely to become 
worse if he took on further credit. He was already reliant on credit and a previous loan from 
Oplo and had taken out further credit in the previous twelve months, including high cost 
credit. So I think all this demonstrates that Mr L didnt have enough of what could genuinely 
be called his own disposable income to afford the additional borrowing he was seeking from 
Oplo. I therefore think Oplo ought to have done more to look into Mr Ls financial situation 
before granting this loan. Oplo therefore didnt act fairly by approving the loan. 
Putting things right  what Oplo needs to do
As I dont think Oplo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or add charges under the loan agreement. Mr L should 
therefore only have to pay the original loan amount, being £12,000. Anything Mr L has paid 
in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ls complaint Oplo should therefore do the following:
Refund any payments Mr L has made in excess of £12,000. It should add 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman