DRN-2102365
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has dealt with his 
claim. 
What happened
Mr M bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. Mr M was on holiday in 
Morocco when he was involved in a car accident. He wanted to make a claim for his injuries 
but URV declined to pursue this.
Mr M complained to URV and unhappy with its response, he referred his complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought URV hadnt properly explained its 
position to Mr M at first but has since provided an explanation about why it wouldnt be 
reasonable to pursue the claim. However, it also offered to cover the costs of investigating a 
possible claim if Mr M was able to source a lawyer who could assess the case as being cost 
effective. She thought this was a reasonable offer. 
But Mr M says his policy documents confirm he is covered and he isnt satisfied with the way 
his claim was handled. He says he had a knee injury which has been made worse after the 
accident. And the stress is affecting his health. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I note that Mr M claimed for medical expenses, which were settled. My decision therefore 
relates to Mr Ms claim for injuries.
The policy provides 30 minutes of legal advice: for legal costs and expenses incurred in 
pursuing claims for compensation and damages due to your death or personal injury whilst 
on the trip.
But the terms say the claim must have an estimated recovery of more than £500 and URV 
has to believe Mr M is likely to obtain a reasonable settlement.
Mr M spoke to URVs legal representatives for advice and was told the claim wouldnt be 
pursued as a Moroccan lawyer would be needed and there were jurisdiction issues.
During our investigation, URV provided further information from its legal representatives 
where they had concluded that the claim was low in value and the costs would outweigh any 
benefit. But URV said that despite this advice from its legal representatives, it was willing to 
pay to have the claim investigated if Mr M could find a lawyer who was able to show that his 
claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
I note Mr Ms comments about the policy providing cover. But this is subject to the conditions 
set out above and based on the advice URV received from its legal representative, the 
conditions arent met. URV is entitled to rely on the legal opinion to decide whether or not to 
pursue a claim. 
Based on the above, I dont think URV has unfairly declined to pursue Mr Ms claim. And I 
think the offer made is a reasonable one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think URV needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman