DRN-1653937
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a mortgage. Aviva Insurance Limited ("Aviva") didnt actually sell the PPI. It 
was sold by a broker. But Avivas accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to 
Aviva as the seller to keep things simple.
Ms O says Aviva mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage in 2004. Ms O 
applied for the mortgage at a meeting with a broker.
Ms O paid a monthly premium for the PPI. It would have paid her monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Os case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms O says she wasnt told the PPI was optional. On the contrary, she says she was 
told that if she didnt take out the PPI, she wouldnt be given the mortgage, as the 
lender insisted on PPI.
 
Ive seen a copy of Ms Os signed application for the mortgage. It includes a section 
on PPI. It includes three options: to ask for details of PPI; to confirm that the 
applicant doesnt wish to take PPI, and understands that theyll be responsible for 
making their monthly payments if theyre unable to work; or to decline the PPI policy 
offered, because the applicant has, or is taking, protection with another provider. The box is ticked to indicate that Ms O was taking protection with another provider. And 
she signed specifically to confirm this, in addition to signing the form overall.
 
I think it would have been clear from the way PPI was referred to on the form that it 
wasnt compulsory. And I think its more likely than not that Ms O took the PPI 
knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so long after the event.
 
Its not clear whether Aviva recommended the PPI personally to Ms O. If it did, it had 
a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. But even if a 
recommendation was made, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive 
seen of Ms Os circumstances at the time. 
 
Ms Os told us shed have been entitled to some sick pay from her employer at the 
time. Shes also told us she had some savings when she took out the PPI. But the 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Thats significantly longer than Ms Os told us shed have 
been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if shed made a 
successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Ms O received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses at what its likely would have been a difficult 
time. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to meet her monthly mortgage 
payments. 
 
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Ms Os home. And the consequences of not keeping up 
with her mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into 
account, I think the policy would have provided Ms O with valuable peace of mind 
that her monthly mortgage payments would continue to be made if she was off sick, 
or if she lost her job.
 
Its possible the information Aviva gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms O chose 
to take out the policy. So I think she wanted this type cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten this now. Based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time, Ms O wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions). So I think it unlikely Ms O would have made a different decision even if 
better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still have taken out 
the policy. 
 
Ive borne in mind that Ms Os told us her finances were tight at the time, and she 
wouldnt have wanted anything that increased her outgoings. But for the reasons Ive 
set out, I think the PPI provided her with useful protection. The monthly premiums 
would have shown on Ms O's bank statements. And since she was paying for it 
monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if 
she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
 Ive taken account of all Ms Os comments, including what shes said about not having been 
told she could buy PPI from another provider. But Aviva wasnt obliged to tell Ms O about 
products that might have been available elsewhere.
Ms O has also told us the adviser was very persistent when selling the product, making it 
difficult for her to say no. While I accept that the adviser may have recommended the PPI to 
Ms O, pressure is another matter. I think Ms O would have realised that the PPI was 
optional. And without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude that she was put under unfair 
pressure to take it out.
Finally, Ive noted what Ms Os told us about the difficult personal circumstances she was in 
when she took out the mortgage, and I have sympathy for her. But Im afraid that this doesnt 
change my view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. So I can't uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman