DRN-1104184
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service theyve received from Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, in relation to their joint current account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C opened a current account with Tesco Bank. And they used it to pay for an 
online grocery shopping order on a day when they were expecting a deposit into their 
account. But the shop attempted to collect the payment before the deposit had reached the 
account, and so the payment was declined. And the same thing happened the following 
week. 
Mr and Mrs C said that the deposit should show on their account so that the funds were 
available from midnight, which wouldve meant these payments werent declined. 
And, when Mr C went to a Tesco branch to pay in some cash, he felt he was asked personal 
questions in a rude manner in a public area; and each of his bank notes were checked with a 
security pen. 
Mr and Mrs C complained. They also said that when they opened the account, they werent 
made aware they wouldnt be able to pay into it at the Post Office; and they werent told they 
wouldnt be able to use their cards on trains or at petrol pumps. And they then didnt feel that 
Tesco Bank responded to their complaint within the required timescales.
Tesco Bank apologised that Mr and Mrs C had been inconvenienced when their transactions 
had been declined, but said the funds had been made available in their account as soon as 
theyd been received. 
Tesco Bank said that it was standard practice for its cashiers to check bank notes with a 
security pen, and cashiers reserve the right to ask about the source of funds if they have 
concerns about a cash deposit being made. But it apologised that this had caused Mr C 
embarrassment. It acknowledged that there were times when information Mr and Mrs C had 
been given wasnt right or was unclear. So it credited their account with £30 as a gesture of 
goodwill, which included £5 to recognise the increased delivery charges they paid when their 
transactions were declined. 
One of our investigators looked into the different complaints points Mr and Mrs C had raised. 
She said she was satisfied that Tesco Bank had applied the deposits into their account as 
soon as it had received them. The investigator also said that, although the Post Office 
advertises that a customer can pay into many bank accounts through its branches; this isnt 
an agreement that Tesco Bank has with it. The investigator also said that certain account 
cards have restricted contactless functionality, and this includes Mr and Mrs C's cards. 
Although the investigator thought that it was right for Tesco Bank to check the source of any 
funds and to verify that bank notes were genuine; she thought this should be completed respectfully and with discretion. The investigator said that Mr C had been made to feel 
uncomfortable and embarrassed. She concluded that the service Mr and Mrs C had received 
was below what it should be, so she thought Tesco Bank should increase its compensation 
payment to £100.
Tesco Bank didnt accept the investigators findings as it said the recommended 
compensation payment was too much. So the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman 
to review and issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of different concerns about their current account with 
Tesco Bank. For completeness; I will address each point separately.
Timing of incoming payments
Mr and Mrs C looked to book their online shopping order on the days that they were due to 
receive a deposit into their account. So I can see why it will have been worrying and 
upsetting when the payment for their shopping was declined, particularly as theyd been told 
the incoming deposit was sent at midnight. 
I can see from the notes of Mrs Cs call to Tesco Bank about this that she said she was 
struggling and was extremely upset; and I can understand this if she was being given 
different information about when the money would be there to pay for her shopping. And I 
can also see that this happened on two separate occasions - each time the shop looked to 
claim the payment three times before the incoming deposit was applied to the account.
Tesco Bank has acknowledged that Mr and Mrs C were given conflicting information about 
incoming deposits. But I dont think its the case that it delayed in applying them to the 
account; when they were credited when Tesco Bank received them. Although it may be sent 
through at midnight, the transfer wouldnt necessary happen immediately as it has to be 
processed through the BACs system.
Paying in cash
Other I appreciate that the Post Office says customers can access many bank accounts 
through its branches; this isnt an arrangement that Tesco Bank has. The terms and 
conditions of Tesco Banks current account say that cash can be paid into selected Tesco 
stores at the Customer Service desk. 
And it was at a Customer Service desk that Mr C felt he was being asked personal questions 
about where his cash deposit had come from, and each bank note he had was checked with 
a security pen. 
I agree that Tesco Bank should be able to check the source of funds if it has any concerns; 
and I also dont think its unusual for bank notes to be checked in this way using a security 
pen. However, it seems that it was the lack of privacy, and the way that this was approached 
that led Mr C to feel embarrassed and uncomfortable.
Restrictions on using the contactless facility on their cardsThe terms and conditions of this account also set out that, depending on their financial 
circumstances, Tesco Bank may give a customer a card that has restricted contactless 
functionality. This means that the merchant may first check that the customer has enough 
money to meet the contactless payments they want to make, but the transaction could be 
declined if that check cant be made. This may be why Mr and Mrs C have found situations 
where they havent been able to use their account cards.
Tesco Banks response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint
I can see that Tesco Bank responded to the complaint reasonably quickly  its letter 
addressing the points Mrs C raised was sent eight days after she contacted it, so this 
wouldnt be outside of the required timescales. 
It apologised for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs C were caused through the declined 
payments and for Mr Cs embarrassment when he deposited cash into their account. It also 
said that there were several times when they'd been given information that was incorrect or 
unclear. So Tesco Bank credited £30 to their account, which included £5 for the increased 
delivery charges they had to pay after their shopping payments were declined. 
Overall, Tesco Bank has acknowledged that Mrs C was given conflicting information about 
payments into the account; and I think this was particularly important at the time considering 
she was looking to pay for grocery shopping to be delivered. This may have affected her 
account with the supermarket, and led to increased delivery charges. And, although I 
acknowledge that relevant, security checks are needed when it accepts a cash deposit; the 
service Mr C received when paying money into his account left him feeling uncomfortable. 
Its because of this that I consider an overall payment of £100 would represent a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
Putting things right
Having taken everything into account, I think that a total payment of £100 more fairly reflects 
the worry; upset; embarrassment and confusion Mr and Mrs C have been caused. For 
clarity, this would mean an additional payment of £70 where the £30 has already been paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as 
Tesco Bank, to pay Mr and Mrs C a further £70 for the distress and inconvenience they were 
caused through the service they received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman