DRN-4190481
The complaint
Mr P complained that Clarkson Wayman Ball (CWB) failed to advise him adequately when it 
came to a pension arrangement. Responsibility for this complaint lies with Radiant Financial 
Planning Limited.
What happened
Mr P held a number of pension arrangements, including the plan (Plan A) held with Provider 
B thats at the centre of this complaint. Plan A is a paid-up Executive Pension Plan (EPP). In 
early 2015 Provider B issued a retirement pack for Plan A to Mr P as he was approaching 
the retirement date selected for this plan.
On 6 February 2015 the provider wrote to Mr P as they hadnt heard back from him. They 
said they had written to him a while ago asking for more information, but because they 
hadnt heard back from him, they couldnt give him a personalised quote.
Provider Bs correspondence included a number of additional guides, illustrations, and 
further information. It noted that Plan A had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) attached to the 
plan. It also identified that Mr P was due to start taking benefits from Plan A within a few 
weeks. Specifically the provider noted that if Mr P wanted to delay taking benefits from his 
plan, he needed to call and let them know or complete the delaying your retirement form. 
They directed his attention to an enclosed booklet and information.
A form entitled Delaying your retirement was attached. This set out that if Mr P wanted to 
change the funds he was invested in, he would need to complete a fund switching form. It 
goes on to say that In some cases your fund may be automatically switched-out of the With 
Profits fund. Please see the What if I defer my retirement or take no action section of the 
retirement pack. 
I previously noted that I hadnt seen anything to explain what, if anything, Mr P did at this 
time. My understanding is that Mr P did not act at this time, save to go on to later make the 
appointment with CWB.
It was later in the year Mr P was put in touch with CWB by a friend. Mr P made an initial 
appointment for the start of April 2015. Mr P first met with an adviser from CWB on 
Wednesday 1 April 2015. Mr Ps normal retirement date (NRD) was later that week. The 
meeting was for a full financial review involving a number of areas for Mr P.
During the meeting the adviser called Provider B. Its said this was because Mr P had 
indicated he would prefer not to take benefits from Plan A at that time and had no need of 
doing so. This appears to be agreed, albeit Mr P says he would have acted differently had 
he known his funds would be moved out of their investments.
Provider B spoke to Mr P who agreed the adviser could be given 24-hour access on Plan A 
to allow the adviser to be provided with information. A telephone conversation between the 
adviser and a representative from the provider followed (with Mr P in the room with the 
adviser). CWB say the call was conducted on loudspeaker.
In summary the conversation involved Provider B being told Mr P might not take benefits for 
six months or a year and being asked if Mr P needed to take any action. The provider 
confirmed to the adviser that no contributions were being made and Mr P didnt need to take 
benefits at his NRD.
The adviser then asked Provider B, if he does nothing will that affect the plan at all and the 
representative of the provider said no. Provider B went on to say they would contact Mr P 
again at the age of 75 if he had not taken benefits by then.
The next day the adviser contacted the provider once more to check the effects on the GAR 
if benefits were not taken, and in particular that the GAR increased. Provider B confirmed 
this and sent through a copy of the GAR table.
Following their initial meeting CWB provided written advice to Mr P, and in respect of this 
plan, Plan A, it was recorded that Mr P had said he did not want advice.
Historic notes provided by CWB suggest that in 2015 Mr P and the adviser discussed the 
GAR and that it was approximately 10% and that this would improve on delay. They also 
discussed that Plan A came with an enhanced level of tax-free cash being available to Mr P 
(around 33%). Its noted that Mr P wanted to delay as he did not need the funds and its said 
the adviser agreed on basis of the information he had. As such its said the adviser agreed 
not to review Plan A. 
Further discussions followed in respect of other financial arrangements and Mr P is said to 
have indicated he was in a small self-administered [pension] scheme (SSAS) but said he 
wasnt informed or involved in it and wanted to start a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) with 
a particular provider as his friend was the Director of the provider. 
CWBs notes record that the adviser emailed Mr P on 30 April 2015 about Plan A and then 
called Mr P on 1 May 2015. This previously appeared to me to have been primarily to 
discuss what Mr P wanted to do about Plan A benefits and obtaining a figure for the 
enhanced tax-free cash.
 
Its recorded Mr P said he couldnt complete the information required by Provider B, as the 
plan was linked to historic employment, and he didnt want the hassle of finding the 
information. Theres a note that Mr P said that because the plan only represented a limited 
pot, he was happy to just have 25% as the tax-free cash sum. It appears there was further 
discussion and Mr P was asked to email confirming what hed said.
Recently Mr P has provided a copy of historic contact between himself and the adviser, and 
says he recalls this discussion was not about Plan A, but another smaller pension fund held 
with the same provider, which Mr P says also had the potential for enhanced tax-free cash, 
but which he was happy to forgo. 
There are further notes from a meeting between CWB and Mr P in September 2016 where it 
is confirmed Mr P was still willing to forgo the enhanced tax-free cash available from a plan, 
as he couldnt provide the information needed by the provider to do the calculation.
In the September 2016 fact find document the adviser recorded that Mr P was intending to 
transfer all of his pension arrangements that didnt have the GAR.
In December 2017 Provider B wrote to Mr P about Plan A, having been contacted by Mr P 
asking them to provide him with information. They attached a number of leaflets containing 
further information and told Mr P, he may be able to review the funds he was invested in. 
There is no suggestion this information was provided to CWB. In July 2018 CWB contacted Provider B enclosing their letter of authority for Mr Ps plan and 
setting out a list of information they required on the plan. It is clear this was a general first list 
of enquiries, as there are a number of queries not relevant to Mr Ps plan. 
It appears Mr P had expressed his disappointment with the level of growth achieved by Plan 
A during deferment. I have also seen reference that Mr P said the information on Plan A had 
only come to light as hed asked CWB for an update on his options as his circumstances had 
changed. Equally I have seen reference to Mr P saying hed been questioning the limited 
growth for years since 2015.
 
In the July 2018 fact find document it is recorded that Mr P had received a valuation for Plan 
A. As the value had hardly increased, he was thinking of starting to draw an income from it. 
So Mr P asked the adviser to review the rates available and his options. At this time it was 
said Mr P didnt need the income but the sooner he drew on Plan A, the quicker he would 
start benefitting.
As a result it was discovered by CWB that the funds from Mr Ps Plan A had been 
transferred on his NRD to a cash deposit to protect the value of the fund. In July 2018 there 
is also a note that the provider told the adviser there was no availability to switch funds. 
Provider B wrote to CWB in August and September 2018. In August they provided 
information on Plan A.
In September 2018 it appears the adviser spoke to the provider about options for Plan A on 
the basis that CWB and Mr P hadnt been receiving correspondence and said this meant 
they had known nothing about the fund switch at NRD to the deposit fund. 
Provider B replied and referred to information sent to Mr P in October 2014 (apparently not 
provided by Mr P to CWB) and sending out a full pack containing all the information including 
the investment strategy post NRD. The provider also forwarded annual communications they 
had sent to Mr P.
Provider B also sent additional information on Plan A and some original documents including 
some of the terms. These documents set out important information on Plan A which I 
previously indicated I didnt think had been completely appreciated by parties in this 
complaint. Including that:
A pension date is selected for a member when they join the scheme. The full value to 
provide a pension and tax-free lump sum benefit to be made available at that age.
The scheme rules allowed for benefits to be taken up to a maximum age of 75. 
Where the selected retirement of the policy was earlier than the age of 75 and the 
member wished to defer taking benefits the value of the fund grows in line with the 
Pension deposit fund over the period of deferment.
The plan is designed to offer optimum benefits at the selected pension date, whilst 
being flexible to allow early and late retirement. Where it is known sometime in 
advance that the selected pension date is no longer appropriate, a revised pension 
date may be established (subject to Inland Revenue agreement where applicable) 
and benefits will be amended accordingly.
In October 2018 Provider B wrote to Mr P about his enquiry in respect of wanting to take his 
benefits from Plan A as a lump sum and their requirements. This letter sets out that because 
Mr Ps plan has a value of more than £30,000 and because it has a GAR, he will need to 
have received regulated financial advice and to have this confirmed if he wants to take his benefits in this way. This repeated the information sent directly to Mr P a year before when 
he had contacted the provider directly.
Mr P complained to Provider B with the assistance of CWB about not knowing the funds 
would transfer into a cash deposit account. Mr P said he hadnt needed to draw on his plan 
benefits at his NRD and hadnt understood the implications of what he needed to do, which 
was why hed met with CWB. Mr P thought Provider B was wrong to have transferred his 
fund in the way they did. 
Provider B rejected the complaint as they didnt think they had done anything wrong. When it 
came to the transfer of Mr Ps fund into a cash deposit they pointed to the terms of the plan 
and documentation issued, and in particular the information they issued in early 2015 and 
page 21 of the retirement pack. Further communications followed.
In August 2019 having been contacted by Mr P, the provider wrote to Mr P, having been 
asked to provide him with his options.
 
There was a further letter to Mr P from the provider around this time. This is specifically 
about his GAR and says that they are writing to him as he had contacted them about taking 
his benefits as a lump sum. This letter sets out (similarly to before) that because his plan 
value is more than £30,000 and has a GAR, he will need to have received regulated financial 
advice and to have this confirmed. There is then an illustration of the type of annuity he 
could receive with and without the GAR. The option without the GAR was 50% less than the 
option with.
In November 2019 Provider B wrote to Mr P following a letter they had received from him in 
October 2019. The provider noted to Mr P they could see his February 2015 retirement pack 
had confirmed that if he wanted to change the funds he was invested in, he should contact 
them. They noted that in some cases there is an automatic switch out from the with-profit 
fund, and they directed his attention to the section what if I defer or take no action section of 
the retirement pack. Provider B said that because theyd never received a call, his funds had 
remained in the deposit fund. They said that the policy terms and annual statements had 
confirmed that when he reached NRD the funds would be switched into a deposit fund to 
protect the fund. 
Mr P went on to complain to CWB. He said hed been poorly advised as he ought to have 
been told in 2015 the funds would be moved into a deposit fund where there was no 
opportunity for growth in real terms. Mr P said the adviser hadnt fully investigated and 
understood the plan. Mr P suggested that he would have crystallised his benefits at NRD to 
take advantage of the GAR as well as his tax-free cash. Mr P said he wanted past and future 
loss paid to him, including losses in respect of tax-free cash, returns and annuity income 
from his age of 60 until 85.
CWB didnt accept the complaint. They said Plan A had not been under their agency for 
advice until 2018 when Mr P asked CWB to review it.
Investigators view
The investigator thought Mr Ps complaint ought to be upheld. She thought CWB had failed 
by not investigating Plan A fully and thus not making Mr P aware of the implications of taking 
no action at his NRD. She thought this ought to have been done in 2015. She thought it was 
likely Mr P would have taken his benefits at NRD, and she thought hed want to benefit from 
the GAR so he wouldnt have transferred away from Provider B when it came to taking 
benefits. She set out what she thought CWB ought to do to address compensation. The investigator went on to respond to further submissions made by both parties but didnt 
change her overall thinking. 
Mr P responses
Initially Mr P let us know he was intending to take benefits and hoped his annuity would start 
to be paid from April 2022. However he went on to let us know of a number of problems and 
delays he experienced when it came to obtaining quotes and answers from the provider.
 
Mr P didnt think the investigators redress took account of all of the loss he thought hed 
experienced. He thought the information he had received from Provider B had allowed him to 
calculate he had suffered a loss in respect of lost income payments, growth and interest on 
his tax-free cash and future income. Mr P has provided various spreadsheets and 
information on what he thinks is his loss. 
Mr P suggested at one point he wanted to delay taking benefits so that he could pay any 
lump sum of redress into Plan A to enhance his benefits. It appears Mr P now understands 
he would not be able to do this.
Mr P went on to let us know the provider had sent him a revised quote with an enhanced tax-
free cash of 34.18%; but said the provider failed to provide quotes on the basis he wanted.
Mr P thinks it is clear he was not in a position to make a decision in April 2015. He thinks full 
quotes on the options ought to have been obtained in April 2015 to allow him to make an 
informed choice. Mr P now says that he thinks he ought to have received full advice in 2015 
on Plan A, despite what it is recorded he said at the time. Mr P says he said this because he 
didnt understand what was going to happen to the funds held in Plan A.
Mr P has gone on to suggest the type of work and modelling he thinks an adviser ought to 
do when quotes are obtained. Mr P also referred to considering not taking the tax-free cash.
Mr P has let us know he decided not to take benefits (apparently in 2021) as he has been 
advised not to by a new firm.
CWB responses
CWB let us know they were contacting Provider B to understand the increase in the GAR 
during the period of deferment. They didnt think there was any loss occasioned to Mr P 
overall. Having obtained further information from the provider they confirmed their position 
was that Mr P had actually benefitted rather than lost out by deferring taking benefits, as his 
GAR had increased, and was continuing to do so. As such they think that even if their 
adviser had the relevant information at the time, he would have advised Mr P to defer, since 
he had no financial need, and it would not be to his disadvantage.
Provisional decision
On 27 March 2023 I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint. In it I explained that I 
intended to conclude the adviser did not do everything he ought to have done when it came 
to understanding Plan A and what would happen when Mr P didnt take benefits at his NRD. 
However I was not persuaded that even if the adviser had done what he ought to have done, 
Mr P would have gone on to take benefits as he says he would have done. I concluded that 
in the circumstances here, CWB ought to pay Mr P £450 to represent the failures and what 
ought to have happened causing Mr P real inconvenience and concern.
Responses to the provisional decisionMr P noted that my understanding and conclusions significantly differed from those of the 
investigator. He has let me know he would welcome the opportunity to discuss his complaint 
if I feel it would assist, as he had done with the investigator.
Mr P let us know about some of the events that had been impacting upon him at the time he 
received his retirement pack from Provider B. This includes personal and professional 
changes and stresses, some of which had started in 2012 and 2013 and continued for a 
number of years.
Mr P stressed that although he has some financial understanding when it comes to 
accounting, this does not translate to pensions and their related language and financial 
arrangements. It was for this reason he had sought expert financial advice.
Mr P continues to accept he did not need a cash sum or monthly income in April 2015, but 
he did want to understand what the best thing was when it came to deferring or taking 
benefits. Mr P also stresses that he says there was not a direct instruction for Plan A to be 
ignored when it came to advice in April 2015.
Mr P has let me know that he relied on CWB. Mr P thinks it is likely the adviser did not 
understand Plan A and the information properly. Mr P has gone on to set out what he thinks 
CWBs adviser ought to have done. Mr P continues to think he has been left in a poor 
position financially, as he says he would have taken his pension cash and invested it and he 
would have benefitted from investment growth. He doesnt agree that it can be said he would 
not have done anything differently had he been fully informed.
Mr P also sent in various historic communications with the adviser at CWB as he had seen I 
had referred to not knowing what Mr P had done at various times. I am grateful for this 
further information.
In his more recent submissions Mr P says he still thinks his actions in dealing with Plan A, 
albeit a few months after the communications from the provider, were before the date he 
could take his pension, and as such were timely.
Mr P has explained why he thinks that historic references to him not being able to complete 
information required by provider B on historic employment, dont refer to benefits attached to 
Plan A, and he has provided some further historic communications about this.
Mr P continues to think he was advised in 2015 about Plan A, this advice was wrong, and he 
thinks he has lost out. He sent through his analysis of what he thinks his loss is, and said he 
was waiting to find out the current position in respect of Plan A and the impact of the GAR on 
what he will entitled to.
CWB did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry for the delay in providing this final decision, due to personal circumstances.
I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. I continue to 
think the adviser did not do everything he ought to have done when it came to understanding 
Plan A and what would happen when Mr P didnt take benefits at his NRD. However I am not 
persuaded that even if the adviser had done what he ought to have done, Mr P would have 
gone on to take benefits as he says he would have done.I have considered everything that has been provided, including the submissions made after I 
issued my provisional decision, with real care.
 
I have seen that Mr P offered to speak with me if I thought that would be helpful. I have 
meant no discourtesy by not taking him up on his offer. I havent considered it necessary 
here to have any hearing or further discussions having considered everything provided. I am 
satisfied I have sufficient information and understanding to fairly reach my decision. It is 
unusual for us to need to have any oral hearing or conversation when reaching a decision, 
but it is something I always consider if it is needed, and I am grateful for Mr Ps offer.
Mr P was contacted in late 2014 by Provider B, before he was due to reach his NRD on Plan 
A. I previously noted that we hadnt been told if Mr P did anything at this stage, but he didnt 
contact Provider B as they requested. My understanding is that Mr P accepts he didnt act at 
this stage.
The provider went on to contact Mr P in February 2015. This communication had the 
information set out in the background above. This information ensured Mr P had some idea 
of the benefits attached to his plan and that some changes may happen, and that further 
instruction may be needed, before or at his NRD. Previously we hadnt been told if Mr P did 
anything when he received this correspondence, but there was nothing to suggest he 
contacted the provider. I understand Mr P says he didnt do anything, save for going on to 
make the appointment with CWB later in the year.
I have seen what Mr P has said about what was going on in his life in the years prior to 
2015, at the time and in the years that followed. I have no doubt these events would have 
had an impact upon him. However in deciding this matter Ive needed to consider whether 
CWB did something wrong and if so what, if anything, they ought to do. I have taken into 
account what Mr P says about events in his life and how they impacted upon him, and as 
such, I have only drawn conclusions about whether Mr P ought reasonably to have been 
expected to do something or not, if it is reasonable to do so.
Mr P had his first meeting with CWB in early April only several days before the NRD 
attached to Plan A. Theres nothing to suggest Mr P had provided information in advance of 
the meeting, or that the adviser had been in a position to obtain information on Plan A in 
advance. It isnt clear if Mr P provided the documentation from Provider B (from early 2015) 
to CWB at the April meeting.
Mr P had left it late to seek financial advice on Plan A. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
any adviser to have been able to advise Mr P on Plan A at this stage or to ensure anything 
was done before the NRD. Inevitably the Plan A funds were always going to move into the 
cash deposit holding. This was in-line with the original terms of the plan.
I dont accept what Mr P says about having acted in a timely way when it came to seeking 
advice prior to his NRD on his pension arrangements. 
Here Mr P was seeking a full financial review involving a wide range of assets and in respect 
of his own personal circumstances which were in the process of change and continued to 
remain somewhat fluid over the next couple of years (involving for example sales of 
property, the end of a relationship and changes in employment and living circumstances).
I dont consider CWB were or ought to have been in a position to advise Mr P in early April 
2015 on Plan A. They did not have sufficient information, and this was not their fault. I accept 
Mr P said he didnt want Plan A to fall within the scope of the advice they provided (and this 
was repeated in 2016) and to an extent this will have impacted CWBs approach.I understand Mr P says he would have wanted the plan advised upon if he had understood 
what the terms of the plan were when it came to how it was held after NRD. I have returned 
to this later.
I dont think it is right to conclude Mr P had no knowledge of the benefits attached to Plan A 
or that he ought not reasonably to be expected to have some understanding of what those 
benefits were. Mr P was someone with some degree of financial understanding and interest. 
Provider Bs communications were sufficiently clear and informative. In addition to what was 
provided in 2014 and early 2015, historic information would have been provided over the 
years. I dont think the language used demanded a level of technical expertise to understand 
that there might be changes to Plan A when Mr Ps NRD was reached.
In addition when considering the level of reliance Mr P suggests he placed on CWB when it 
came to Plan A I have taken into account that Mr P was aware CWB were only granted 
limited authority to receive information on Plan A and they did not have any authority after 
the 24-hour access hed granted in the telephone call. Theres nothing to suggest they were 
granted further access until 2018. 
Mr P didnt want to take benefits from Plan A and had no financial need in 2015 to do so. 
Whilst Ive seen Mr P now thinks he would have done, I have also taken into account the 
inherent danger of unfairness of using hindsight in considering what someone would have 
done.
In 2015 the adviser contacted Provider B at least twice about Plan A and went on to discuss 
the potential enhanced tax-free cash available from the plan with Mr P. The adviser recorded 
that he agreed with Mr Ps decision not to take benefits on the basis of the information he 
had [I think its reasonable to assume he means the information hed obtained on the plan 
and taking account of Mr Ps circumstances as he understood them].
I find it surprising that the adviser did not consider the likelihood or possibility of the 
investment of the funds in Plan A changing on NRD (and into a cash deposit), given they 
were invested in a with-profits arrangement. It isnt unusual for funds invested in this way to 
be unable to remain actively invested in the with-profits arrangement once NRD is reached. 
This is part of the way certain with-profits funds are managed. The original plan information 
(provided by Provider B in 2018) confirms Plan A was part of this type of arrangement, and 
not unusually, set out what happened at NRD or if there was a planned deferment. I accept 
this degree of appreciation might not reasonably be expected of Mr P.
I dont consider CWB would have ever been in a position having met with Mr P in early April 
2015 to have suggested Mr P request a later NRD as any such request needed to be 
submitted sometime in advance for consideration under the terms of Plan A. But given the 
adviser undertook steps to understand more about Plan A in April 2015, including the GAR 
and the enhanced level of tax-free cash if retirement was deferred, I think its reasonable to 
expect the adviser ought to have also taken steps to understand how the fund would be 
invested, including after Mr Ps NRD.
I agree with the investigator that the adviser didnt do enough to ensure the instruction from 
Mr P not to advise on Plan A was clear and unambiguous with sound reasoning; nor did he 
do enough when it came to asking questions of Provider B about Plan A. As part of this 
process I also dont accept he did enough to record what had happened.
When an adviser meets a new client the process of obtaining information and getting to 
know the client well enough to give appropriate advice is always going to take some time 
and is unlikely to be achieved sufficiently at a first meeting. There is no precision in the time required for this to be done, but I dont think it would be unreasonable to suggest that by the 
middle of May 2015 the adviser ought to have known enough to discuss with Mr P the 
benefits attached to Plan A and what had happened once Mr P had not taken benefits at his 
NRD. I say this as I think the provider would have provided confirmation of how the funds 
were being held and as such Mr P and the adviser could then have spoken having a better 
understanding of the investment status, and the terms of the plan. 
I dont conclude the adviser would necessarily have been in a position to advise on Plan A 
by mid-May 2015 and not within the wider context of the full review being completed. But he 
ought to have understood the relevant terms of Plan A. This doesnt mean that I think Mr P 
ought to have been advised to take benefits in 2015 had the CWB adviser obtained the full 
information on Plan A or that I think Mr P would have done so. 
Whilst I understand Mr P now feels he would have taken benefits in 2015 (and he thinks at 
his NRD) had he been properly informed about his plan, and in particular the funds being 
transferred to the cash deposit, I dont agree. It contradicts what he said at the time, and at 
the follow up meeting. I dont think it is supported by what happened or the impression I have 
of Mr Ps wider financial objectives. 
Mr P had no need of funds at the time, and he was not intending to retire or take benefits 
from Plan A for at least six to 12 months as recorded by the adviser in April 2015. Ive seen 
his circumstances were changing, but not in any way that was likely to mean he was facing 
any financial need.
 
I previously noted Mr P had indicated in 2015 that he was not inclined to find the information 
to allow Provider B to assess the level of enhanced tax-free cash he was entitled too, and 
that he repeated this in 2016 to the adviser. I have seen Mr P says this was not in respect of 
Plan A, but another smaller fund. Even if I accept this, and I can see there is 
contemporaneous material supporting this, this still supports as a minimum, my thinking that 
Mr P was not in any immediate financial need.
Mr P suggested he had been complaining for ages about the lack of growth in Plan A prior to 
July 2018. I dont think theres enough to support this. I have seen that Mr P was contacting 
Provider B individually and not involving CWB between 2015 until 2018 (but I havent seen 
records of all communications). In particular he asked Provider B a number of times about 
taking his benefits as a lump sum.
More recently Mr P let us know he was seeking to take benefits from the plan and was 
seeking various quotes from Provider B. He let us know these were delayed or being 
produced on an incorrect basis. These are not matters I am considering. Ultimately Mr P has 
not taken benefits. He has told us that he had a new adviser who advised him last year not 
to take benefits from this plan. I dont know the basis for this advice, but I accept from Mr P 
he has relied upon it.
Mr P has not taken benefits, and so whilst the level of growth of the funds derived from Plan 
A might have been limited, the capital has been protected and the GAR has increased in 
deferment. In addition the entitlement to enhanced tax-free cash remains. I dont know what 
that is going to look like for Mr P, but I accept that it might fairly be considered that Plan A 
continues to offer some valuable benefits here.
Whilst it is right to say I would have expected the adviser to have identified how Plan A 
would have been invested after NRD, that does not mean I think the adviser would or ought 
reasonably to have advised Mr P to take benefits around that time. And I dont conclude that 
is what Mr P would have done.I have needed to consider what I think is more likely than not to have happened. This 
involves a consideration of what I think Mr P was likely to have done and whether the 
adviser would have considered advice was or was not required and what ought to have 
happened. 
I acknowledge this is a finely balanced decision. When it comes to deciding what ought to 
have happened sometimes there are a range of reasonable outcomes when it comes to 
what advice ought to have been given. Whilst the adviser ought to have known how the Plan 
A was invested by mid-May 2015, that does not mean he ought to have included it in advice 
provided in 2015. Or that even if he had, that he would have or ought to have advised Mr P 
to take benefits (nor of course, does it mean Mr P would have followed the advice he was 
given, albeit I consider he would have been entitled to rely on it). 
The adviser ought to have known how Plan A was invested by the time he advised in 
November 2016, but that does not mean he ought to have included it in the advice, or that 
he would or ought to have advised Mr P to take benefits. I think this because at both of these 
times I accept Mr P said he didnt want Plan A considered, and I have seen he had no need 
of additional income. I accept that it might be concluded that it was not in respect of Plan A 
where he was not motivated to explore the possibility of obtaining enhanced tax-free cash, 
even though he knew it was available, as recorded in the notes. But equally there was 
enough for Mr P to know there was an enhanced tax-free cash element available to Plan A.
I dont consider the position changed in 2017; nor even in 2018 when the adviser discovered 
how Plan A was invested. In 2018 this did not lead to advice to take benefits, but to a 
complaint against Provider B. Ive seen Mr Ps circumstances changed, but not in any way 
that was likely to mean he was facing any financial needs. And in 2022 Mr P has been 
advised not to take benefits by a new adviser.
When it comes to concluding what Mr P was more likely than not to have done, I have been 
assisted by the evidence, including indications of what Mr P wanted and valued at the time 
and his objectives and what has happened. This was a pot of limited size in his overall asset 
portfolio. And as Ive identified Mr P knew of the various guaranteed benefits attached to 
Plan A. 
I have received limited assistance from the submissions made by the parties. Mr P now says 
he would have taken all benefits at NRD because he wouldnt have wanted his funds to be 
held on deposit. Albeit Ive also seen it was suggested by Mr P at one stage that he would 
have taken his whole benefits as an annuity using the GAR and dispensed with the tax-free 
cash. There is also consistent historic information that Mr P was approaching Provider B for 
information on taking the benefits as a lump sum, without CWB being involved in this 
correspondence. And as Ive identified, Mr P is yet to take benefits, despite knowing, based 
on submissions to this service, from mid-2018 how Plan A is held. I appreciate he says this 
is on advice, but I dont find this supports his submissions that he suffers increasing loss 
monthly. I also note that I would have expected Mr P to reasonably mitigate his loss, albeit I 
dont accept what Mr P says about loss.
I am not persuaded Mr P can reasonably persuade me that he would have taken benefits in 
2015 from Plan A, or that he can reasonably or reliably say how they would have grown 
since then.
CWB say Mr P has benefitted from what has happened due to the growth of his GAR in 
particular, and that he will now receive his enhanced tax-free cash which he was previously 
willing to lose out on.Whilst CWB did not do all the work they ought to have done when it came to understanding 
Plan A, I am not persuaded this has led Mr P to now be in a position he would not otherwise 
have been in if CWB had done what they ought to have done.
So I am upholding his complaint in part. I am not persuaded Mr P has suffered a loss as a 
consequence of what happened, nor that there ought to be any loss calculation completed 
for which CWB ought to be considered liable, if there were to be any loss identified. Advising 
on what to do with pension funds does not require the best possible advice to be given using 
the benefit of hindsight. Here I dont know if Mr P might be better off when he comes to take 
benefits derived from Plan A; but I accept it would not have been unreasonable, even if CWB 
ought to have advised Mr P, for them to have advised him not to take benefits. 
I do however think its right CWB make a significant payment to represent Mr Ps 
inconvenience, as it is clear that not only did CWB fail to do what they ought to have done, 
had CWB sufficiently understood Plan A earlier (or even when Provider B provided 
documents to CWB in 2018) then some distress and inconvenience would not have been 
occasioned to Mr P.
Putting things right
What CWB must do
Radiant Financial Planning Limited (who Mr P dealt with as CWB) must pay Mr P a sum of 
£450 within 14 days of being informed of his acceptance of my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Ps complaint about Radiant Financial 
Planning Limited (previously trading as Clarkson Wayman Ball Limited) in part. Radiant 
Financial Planning Limited must pay Mr P the sum of £450 within 14 days of being informed 
of his acceptance of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman