DRN-3269045
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her claim under her 
home emergency cover on her landlord insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs B had a landlord insurance policy that was underwritten by UKI, for a property she owns 
and rents out. In April 2021 one of her tenants contacted her to make her aware of a 
problem with the boiler. She made a claim under the home emergency section of the policy 
and UKI sent out a contractor the following day who confirmed it required two replacement 
parts. It took over a week for the parts to be ordered and the fix to be completed. 
Shortly after this, the boiler stopped working again. Another engineer was sent out who said 
the boiler was likely beyond economic repair. However when Mrs B called UKI, it told her 
that some further parts could be replaced in order to fix the problem, but that this would take 
a number of days to complete.
Mrs B was concerned about her tenants who had been intermittently without hot water 
throughout this time. Due to the delays shed already experienced, Mrs B decided to replace 
the boiler instead of waiting further.
She subsequently made a complaint to UKI. She said shed spent over £2,000 on a new 
boiler when it should have been repaired by its engineer in a reasonable time. She also said 
she thought the first engineer had caused the further problems when he carried out the first 
fix. And if he hadnt, she wouldnt have had to pay for a replacement. 
UKI upheld her complaint and offered £175 compensation to make up for the poor service 
she had received. However it said a replacement boiler isnt covered under the policy and it 
could have carried out a further repair if she had been prepared to wait. So it didnt agree it 
should cover this cost.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything and recommended UKI pay an additional £90 to 
cover the rent deduction Mrs B had given her tenants. However he didnt agree that UKI 
should pay for a replacement boiler as he said there wasnt any evidence to show that the 
first engineer caused the later problems. And a replacement wasnt covered under the 
policy. 
UKI accepted our investigators opinion and agreed to pay the additional £90. However Mrs 
B didnt and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome and recommendation for how UKI 
should put things right. Ive explained why below.
Its clear that there were delays in UKI rectifying both the first and second problem with the 
boiler. The first was reported on 13 April and fixed on 23 April. The second was reported on 
26 April and UKI said no repair was possible until the following week. During this time Mrs B 
had to repeatedly chase UKI for updates and answers. 
Considering the section of the policy the claim was made under was for home emergency, I 
think its reasonable to expect the problem to be fixed more quickly than it was. And the fact 
it wasnt, caused Mrs B the inconvenience of chasing UKI and the worry of knowing her 
tenants were without regular hot water. 
UKI has offered £175 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience these 
delays caused and I think this is fair and is in line with what this service would have 
recommended had it not.
However Mrs B has advised that due to the problems she offered her three tenants a £30 
rent reduction each for the time spent without hot water. As UKI delayed the repairs, I think 
its reasonable that it reimburses Mrs B the £90 she lost out on in rent payments.
Mrs B has said that UKIs first engineer caused the later problems. And due to this, it should 
reimburse her for the replacement boiler. However Ive not seen any evidence to show the 
first repair caused the second problem. The parts that needed replacing were different for 
both repairs, so this suggests the first repair was successful. And UKIs engineer has 
advised that due to the age of the boiler often replacing one part will impact other older parts 
just due to their age. Ive seen nothing to suggest this expert opinion is incorrect.
Further, UKI advised Mrs B that they could repair the boiler under the policy but it would 
mean another wait for the parts to arrive. And Mrs B decided to replace the boiler instead. 
As a replacement boiler isnt covered under the policy and UKI offered a fix, I think it did all 
its required to do under the policy. And it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay for a replacement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to 
pay her: 
£90 to reimburse the rent she missed out on due to the issues with the boiler.
The £175 compensation it offered, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman