DRN-1795050
 
The complaint
Mrs M's complaint concerns the administration by Interactive Investor Services Limited of an 
additional permitted subscription (APS) for her ISA and the application of a number of 
dividend payments. 
What happened
Mrs M's husband, Mr M, sadly passed away in January 2018. Mrs M was duly entitled to an 
APS for her ISA from Mr M's ISA, which Interactive Investor calculated and informed her of 
on 6 April 2018.
At the same time it explained that some additional dividends had been paid to Mr M's ISA in 
the period since his passing and it had added these to other cash already in Mr M's ISA and 
transferred the whole amount to Mrs M's ISA. It confirmed that after this transfer, Mrs M still 
had just over £24,000 of the APS allowance to use. 
Mrs M used this allowance up by making further payments to her ISA over the course of May 
and June 2018. 
The problems Mrs M has experienced relate to some further dividend payments received 
into Mr M's ISA in April and May 2018, after the calculation of the APS. These should've 
been transferred to Mrs M's ISA, but as a result of errors by Interactive Investor they were 
instead paid to her trading account; one in April 2018, the other three not until a year later in 
May 2019.
Interactive Investor has acknowledged that these dividend payments were not handled as 
they should've been. Following Mrs M's referral of her complaint to this service, it increased 
an initial offer of £50 compensation made in its final response to £150. And after intervention 
from our investigator it also agreed to pay Mrs M 8% simple interest in respect of the delay in 
transferring the final three dividend payments to her trading account. This amounted 
to £233.85 in total. Our investigator noted that Mrs M also had concerns that charges had 
been incorrectly applied to Mrs M's ISA, but she was satisfied that Interactive Investor has 
refunded these.
Mrs M didn't accept the investigator's view. She said she'd never received the final response 
from Interactive Investor and that it hadn't properly explained how it had calculated the APS. 
She felt that she'd been left in a position where she'd need to pay unnecessary additional tax 
because the dividends hadn't been paid to her ISA.
The Investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The last few years will clearly have been a very difficult time for Mrs M and she has my 
sympathies. But having looked closely at how Interactive Investor handled Mr M's ISA and 
the calculation of the APS, I'm satisfied that - with the exception of the specific errors 
detailed above - it calculated the amount of APS correctly and broadly speaking took correct, 
reasonable steps in handling the process following Mr M's passing.
I appreciate Mrs M feels that she has incurred unnecessary tax as a result of the additional 
dividend transfers not being made to her ISA, but to her trading account instead. But if the 
transfers had been made to the ISA this would simply have reduced the amount of the APS 
allowance left available to her to use with other money. So, I'm satisfied that Mrs M hasn't 
incurred a loss in respect of the ISA allowance.
I'm also satisfied that Interactive Investor has now made an offer that represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the matter. I understand that Mrs M feels that more should be done, 
but I don't think the errors made justify a higher level of compensation. It has been a 
confusing process, as if often the case with ISA administration, because of the strict HMRC 
rules and particularly in respect of the administration of APS allowances. And Interactive 
Investor's errors clearly haven't helped matters and I can see why they will have led Mrs M 
to question Interactive Investor's credibility. But I do think it has now done the right thing, 
including refunding the misapplied charges, and that there is nothing more that it needs to 
do.
Putting things right
Interactive Investors must pay Mrs M £233.85 compensation - £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused and £83.85 in interest for the period of delay in transferring the dividends to her 
trading account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Interactive 
Investor Services Limited to pay compensation to Mrs M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman