DRN-2770742
The complaint
Ms D complains about the loss assessor she appointed to assist with her insurance claim - 
Aspray Ltd.
Ms D has been represented by her father throughout the claim and complaint. For ease of 
reading all references to Ms D include the actions of her father.
 
What happened
In early 2017 Ms D made a claim on her home insurance, after experiencing water ingress at 
a flat she owned and rented out. Shortly after the claim was made Ms D appointed a loss 
assessor  Aspray  to manage the claim for her. 
Aspray appointed contractors and it was agreed that work to repair the damage caused by 
the water ingress would begin in June. 
Once the contractors began, Ms D raised concerns about the standard of work. She also 
said that she was concerned the leak hadnt been properly fixed. 
In October 2017 a second leak caused further damage and Ms D made a further claim on 
her home insurance. 
At the beginning of 2018 Ms D received a renewal quote for her insurance which was 
significantly higher than the previous year. When she queried this with her insurer she was 
told this was because of the value of the claim that had been managed by Aspray. She didnt 
think this was right and requested a copy of the invoice that Aspray had provided to the 
insurer. On receipt, she queried some of the amounts included. Following this, the invoice 
was reviewed by Aspray with its contractor and the amount was reduced by around £5,000. 
Ms D made a complaint to Aspray. She said that proper investigatory work hadnt been 
carried out to check that the first leak had been fixed, and this had caused the second 
incident. She said this meant she wasnt able to rent out the property again for much longer, 
meaning she lost a lot of money in rent. She said that because of the increase in premiums, 
she ended up selling the property which had caused her a number of associated costs due 
to the fact she was living overseas at the time. She also said that she thought Asprays loss 
assessor had intentionally inflated costs he had charged her insurer.
Aspray didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. It said that Aspray hadnt been involved in fixing the 
original leak, just in the reinstatement work. So it wasnt fair to say that it was its fault that the 
leak happened again. It also said that the invoice had been incorrectly calculated by the 
appointed contractor, but there was no evidence that the loss assessor had knowingly 
inflated costs. It therefore said that as there had been no error by Aspray, it didnt agree it 
should reimburse Ms D for any lost rent or associated costs with selling the property.
Ms D didnt agree this was fair and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he hadnt seen enough 
evidence to suggest Aspray acted unreasonably when dealing with the claim. Or that its loss 
assessor had inflated the invoice. So he didnt think Aspray were responsible for the costs 
associated with selling the property or the lost rent. 
Ms D didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She said that she had raised her concerns 
about the ongoing water ingress while the works were being carried out and these were 
ignored. So she felt Aspray were responsible for the second leak as it didnt take action 
when it was first raised. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the complaint came to me I have requested additional information from both sides. As 
this is an informal service I havent addressed every point that has been raised, Ive focused 
on those that I think are most relevant. However I want to reassure Ms D that I have 
considered everything thats been provided. 
I have addressed the main complaint points in turn below. 
Asprays work on the first claim 
Ms D has said that she thinks Asprays contractor was negligent when carrying out the work 
to repair her property after the first leak. She says she raised her concerns about ongoing 
water ingress with the loss assessor on a number of occasions, but these were ignored. 
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Aspray and Ms D and I can see that she did 
raise concerns about an ongoing water ingress problem. However I dont agree that Aspray 
acted unreasonably in response to these. 
When considering this element of the complaint it is important to consider the role Aspray 
played in the insurance claim. Aspray were instructed by Ms D to carry out reinstatement 
work after a leak. It had no involvement in finding or fixing the leak and was instructed after 
this work had been carried out.
Therefore in order for me to be satisfied that Aspray had acted irresponsibly, Id need to be 
persuaded that there was a clear problem in the area the reinstatement works were 
happening. And that it would have been reasonable for it to stop working in order for the 
problem to be addressed. And Ive not seen enough evidence to say that was the case. 
I can see Ms D raised her concerns about some additional staining on the ceiling in an email 
to the loss assessor. And Aspray took steps to try and initiate investigative work to find out if 
there was a problem. It attempted to seek consent from other flats in the building, in order to 
investigate the relevant shared area the leak originated from, to check whether there was an 
issue. Aspray also attended the flat and carried out moisture readings in the bathroom, but 
concluded this was due to condensation. So Im satisfied Aspray took steps to address the 
concerns raised. 
As there was another leak in October 2017, I understand why Ms D feels that Aspray 
ignored her legitimate concerns in June. However I have to consider the information Aspray 
had at the time and the action it took then. And at that time Ive not seen enough to persuade 
me that there was enough evidence of an ongoing leak that would mean Aspray should have 
stopped work on the reinstatement works or acted differently. So Im satisfied that it acted reasonably at the time, based on the information available. 
Second leak and additional costs incurred
Ms D says that if Aspray had taken her concerns about the ongoing problem seriously, then 
the second leak wouldnt have happened. She says this has lost her money in rent.
While I accept its likely the second leak was linked to the first, I dont agree Aspray were 
responsible for it. And for the reasons above, I think it took reasonable steps when issues 
were raised during the reinstatement work. 
I can see that Ms D has lost out on additional rent because of the second leak, as it meant 
she wasnt able to rent her property as quickly as she could have done. However I dont 
agree Aspray are responsible for this. If she has concerns about the quality of the fix of the 
first leak then this is something she could raise with the company that carried out this work. 
But as Im not persuaded Aspray are responsible for the second leak, it wouldnt be fair to 
ask it to reimburse Ms D for the associated costs and losses for this period. 
Loss assessor inflated the invoice
Ms D has said that she feels Asprays loss assessor purposefully inflated the invoice for 
works given to her insurer. She says this has caused her insurance premiums to increase 
which has led to her selling the property. 
I can see that Aspray has agreed that the invoice originally provided to the insurer was 
higher than it should have been. And it took action to lower the total amount once this was 
pointed out. So while its clear the invoice was originally higher than it should have been, Ive 
not seen any evidence that this was done purposefully by Asprays loss assessor. 
It isnt the role of this service to punish a business when it gets things wrong. Just to ensure 
they put things right. In this case the invoice has now been adjusted. So I dont think Aspray 
needs to do anything further. 
I appreciate Ms Ds premiums increased at her 2018 renewal. This isnt unusual following a 
claim. But Ive not seen anything to suggest the reason for this increase was due to Asprays 
actions. If Ms D is unhappy with the premium charged, then she should raise this with her 
insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman