DRN-1848635
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Coutts & Company gave him incorrect information resulting in a 
duplicate transaction being approved from his Coutts Silk Card.
What happened
Mr S placed an online order with a mobile phone retailer using his Coutts' silk card. 
He received a confirmation email for the purchase. But Mr S then received a message from 
Coutts asking him to contact their fraud team - which he did. Mr S told Coutts the transaction 
was genuine, but he was told the transaction had been cancelled as it had been identified as 
potentially fraudulent. And that he would need to reattempt his purchase, which he did later 
that day.
But, following this, Mr S received two identical items from the retailer and two separate 
transactions were debited from his account.
Mr S contacted Coutts to request a refund and ask it to arrange for the duplicate item to be 
collected and returned to the retailer. But Coutts told Mr S that it wouldn't refund the money 
for the duplicate item and suggested that he arrange a refund and collection through the 
retailer directly. 
Mr S did this. But he still felt Coutts had done something wrong. So he referred his complaint 
to this service. He said that Coutts should cover the costs he incurred and the time he spent 
in dealing with this matter. Mr S calculated this to be a total of £312.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt think Coutts had 
done anything wrong, and so she didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said the transaction 
history provided by Coutts showed that the first transaction hadnt been authorised by it, so 
the information it gave Mr S had been correct. She also noted that Coutts had said that the 
duplicate transaction was a result of the retailer attempting the failed transaction later the 
same day  in addition, to the further transaction Mr S said he made.  
Mr S replied explaining that he did not agree that Coutts had stopped the first transaction 
and that if three transactions had been attempted as the investigator said, the second 
transaction was fraudulent and should have been blocked by Coutts. So, he still felt Coutts 
was at fault. Our investigator didnt think Mr S comments altered the outcome she had 
reached. As Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusion it has come to me for a final 
decision.
 
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know Mr S 
will be disappointed as I can see he feels strongly about this matter. So, Ill explain why:
Coutts has provided this service with a record of the transactions made with Mr S card 
relating to the retailer in question.  And I can see three payment attempts were made as 
described below: 
DATE        TIME     SRC        AMOUNT    RESPONSE                     
29/12/19   13:19     E-EPY    £179.99       05-DO NOT HONOR
29/12/19   14:40     E-EPY    £179.99       00-APPROVED
29/12/19   16:58     E-EPY    £179.99       00-APPROVED
The first of these  attempted at 13:19, states do not honor. Coutts has also provided the 
notes it recorded when this transaction was received by it which indicate the transaction had 
been picked up as a potential fraud and that a text message had been sent to the account 
holder. And Mr S hasn't disputed receiving the text message. Given all of this, Im satisfied 
that Coutts didnt approve the first transaction as it was highlighted as a potential fraud. So, I 
think the information Coutts gave Mr S in relation to this transaction was correct. 
Mr S has suggested that Coutts should not have approved any further transactions. But as 
Mr S had told Coutts that the first failed transaction had been genuine and it had told him to 
attempt it again, I dont agree that Coutts should have prevented any further transactions 
from being approved. 
But the transaction history goes on to show that two further transactions were approved, 
explaining why Mr S received two items from the retailer. So Ive thought carefully about 
whether Coutts did anything wrong here. 
Coutts has said that two transactions went through because the retailer attempted the failed 
transaction again  which it approved. And the third transaction was the reattempted 
transaction which Mr S doesnt dispute making. 
As Mr S hasn't disputed making the third transaction, I don't need to consider this transaction 
further. But Mr S says he didn't authorise the second transaction. So I've thought about what 
Coutts has said. And I think this is the most likely explanation. This is because 
the transaction history shows that the all three transactions were made by the same retailer 
on the same day. So I don't think Coutts did anything wrong.
Given the above, while I understand Mr S incurred some expenses due to having to return 
the duplicated item and had to spend his own time doing that, I dont think these costs were 
incurred as a result of anything Coutts did wrong. And on that basis, I wont be asking Coutts 
to pay the costs Mr S has incurred.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman