DRN-4398789
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Advantage Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his policy 
which used a telematics device and an app to gather data about his driving.
What happened
Mr H had a car insurance policy with Advantage. The policy required the fitment and use of a 
telematics device (commonly known as a black box) and an associated app.
He took the policy out in late March 2023. Advantage told him it would send him the device 
for him to fit, and then he had to pair it with an app and check it was sending data. Mr H said 
the device arrived on 5 April.
On 5 April Advantage wrote to Mr H and told him that the device had to be sending data to it 
before 12 April or his policy would be cancelled.
Mr A fitted the device to his car and checked Advantages logo was on the app. But he didnt 
check any further. He was undergoing medical procedures at the time and didnt check 
again.
Advantage didnt get any data. It cancelled his policy and emailed him to tell him.
Mr H then had to get insurance elsewhere at short notice. This cost him an additional 
premium of about £130 and he complained to Advantage. It charged Mr H for his time on risk 
but refunded the rest of his premium in accordance with its terms. It also paid him £30 
compensation for poor service and gave feedback to a call handler.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks for the increase 
in premium he had to pay, plus compensation of £100. Our investigator looked into it and 
thought it wouldnt be upheld. She thought Advantage had reasonably exercised its right to 
cancel and Mr H hadnt told it about his issues.
Mr H didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the details of Mr Hs health issues around the time he took out the policy. Id like to 
extend my best wishes to him.
Ive said above that the policy he bought is one that requires the use of a black box device. 
In various parts of the policy terms and conditions it says:
You will need to ensure that you use the app and your device on every drive. If you 
share insufficient driving data with us during your period of cover, it may be 
cancelled, so its important to ensure your trips are recorded accurately.
Its a condition of your policy to share your driving data with us through the app and 
device
Advantage says it uses the black box and app to allow it to charge more competitive 
premiums. If a policyholder doesnt use them then it can cancel the policy:
We may give you seven days notice of cancellation
We and your insurer can cancel your policy at any time by sending you seven days 
written notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the policy 
has been cancelled.
We can only do this for one of the following reasons:
 You haven't attached your device and paired it with the app within 13 days of your 
policy's start date.
Mr H hadnt paired the app with his phone, or he hadnt completed the pairing, so data hadnt 
been sent to Advantage.
I think its clear from the policy information that Mr Hs policy was one that required him to 
use the black box device and the app. If he didnt do this, Advantage were allowed to cancel 
his policy under its terms and conditions. I think this is fair.
Mr H had told this service about his health issues and that, at the time he received the black 
box, he was in the process of going to hospital for a procedure. As I say above, Im sorry to 
hear about his problems, but I cant say Advantage has acted unfairly in what it did.
I cant reasonably see that Advantage knew about Mr Hs medical procedure. It seems to 
have handled him the same as any other customer buying this type of policy. Mr H 
presumably knew when his procedure was due and I think its fair I say he could have 
contacted Advantage and told it he was struggling with the device, or the app, or just needed 
more time to set it up. 
I do understand Mr Hs point of view that Advantage showed him zero customer service, but 
its terms and conditions are, I think, clear. Mr H was in possession of knowledge that could 
have meant Advantage was able to help him better, but I cant see that he shared that 
knowledge with it. So I cant fairly say Advantage was at fault for following its terms and 
conditions in cancelling his policy.
It follows that I dont think Advantage acted unfairly and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman