DRN-3338668
The complaint
Mr N complains that a vehicle he acquired through a hire agreement with Motility Operations 
Limited wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr N acquired a new car financed through a hire agreement with Motability and 
made an advance payment of £1,699. The car had an ergonomic seat. Some six months 
after he acquired the vehicle he experienced a problem with the seat. He said metal was 
protruding out from under the car seat fabric and was uncomfortable for him to sit on. He 
said that he is in severe pain in his leg whenever he drives the car.
Mr N complained to Motability who advised him to go to the manufacturers dealer. The 
dealer found no problem with the cars seat. Mr N was offered early termination of the 
contract and was eventually able to order a new car. But he remained unhappy with the 
amount of time it took to resolve the complaint given he needed to continue to drive the car 
until the new one was available. He was also unhappy with the response he received.
In its final response Motability said both the dealer and the independent inspection found no 
fault with the seat. It said the metal part protruding from the seat was a standard feature of 
the seat and that no manufacturing defect was present, so no repair needed to be made. It 
acknowledged the difficulties Mr N had been having with the seat and provided a full refund 
of the Advance Payment of £1,699. It said it was unable to provide Mr N with a refund of his 
disability allowance as there was not an identified fault with the seat. Mr N remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that there was no manufacturing fault with the seat and that 
Motability had been fair in its response to Mr N's complaint. Mr N didn't agree and asked for 
a final decision from an ombudsman. He said hed had the car inspected by another car 
manufacturer who agreed that the seat wasn't good. He said this other manufacturer would 
send a detailed report including that the seat had major design flaws, and there should have 
been more padding to cover the metalwork that sticks out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, but having done so I won't be asking 
Motability to do anything further. Im not disputing Mr N when he says the seat causes him 
severe discomfort. He has described the pain as like a bolt pressing into his muscle. He said 
driving is uncomfortable and he cant travel long distances, and when he does the pain is still 
severe at the exact spot for hours later. Im very sorry to hear this. Indeed, it's not disputed 
by any party that there is something in the seat causing this. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Motability is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. The relevant law at the time 
Mr N entered into his agreement said under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied 
term that goods would be of satisfactory quality.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory. As the vehicle here was new it would be expected that it would be 
supplied without defects.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. After this it would usually be 
for the consumer to show that any faults which resulted in the vehicle not conforming to 
contract were present at the point of supply. The complaint here was raised with Motability 
more than six months after supply.
In the context of this complaint, in order to say that Motability should allow rejection of the 
vehicle, or alternatively pay for repairs and provide compensation, Id have to find that 
whatever caused the defect was present at the point of supply and not as a result of wear 
and tear. And that it resulted in the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality.
Mr N believes the problem with the seat is a manufacturing fault. 
I first want to reassure Mr N that I have read all the reports in the file and Ive listened to all 
the calls between Mr N and our service relating to this complaint, as he has requested I do. 
Mr N first contacted Motability regarding the issue with the seat in October 2020, two years 
following the beginning of his lease. He said he started to experience the problem with the 
seat after about six months of using the car. He describes the problem as a piece of metal 
protruding through the seat, although not through the fabric, which he feels most when 
turning corners as his weight shifts in the seat. 
Motability liaised with the dealer concerning the fault, but the dealer was unable to identify 
anything wrong. Motability then arranged for an independent inspection of the vehicle. The 
inspector was unable to identify a significant fault. He said it was the design of the seat, 
causing discomfort rather than a manufacturing defect. Mr N requested to change the 
vehicle to something more suitable.
Mr N has complained that Motability hasnt taken the issue seriously. He has said that a 
further independent inspection is required as he strongly believes this to be a fault in the 
manufacture of the vehicle. He said hes been denied this opportunity. 
Motability provided all the contact notes between itself and Mr N as well as internal notes. 
On 2 November an independent inspection was carried out by a third party, I shall refer to as 
R. The report includes the following comments:
The drivers seat cushion / sponge was found to be a little softer than that of the 
passengers seat. This is common with any used vehicle and is resultant of general 
usage. No damage could be found to the surface of the seat base that may suggest 
something was sticking/ protruding. 
When pushing down hard at the midway point on each side of the drivers using the 
fingers, something raised could be felt as the foam compressed against the seat 
frame that may dig into the legs dependent on occupant position. Similar testing / compression of the sponge in the passengers seat found the foam to 
be firmer and nothing could be felt when pushed down that had the possibility of 
sticking in the occupants legs. 
A road test was conducted with Mr N. The engineer was advised to drive round 
roundabouts etc to allow the body to move within the seat thus changing the 
pressure points. This was completed; however, no discomfort was experienced 
during the road test. 
The report concluded by saying:
The drivers seat sponge was found to be a little softer than the passengers seat. 
When pushing down on this drivers seat, parts of the seat frame could be felt that 
may dig into Mr Ns legs when cornering (though this was not experienced during the 
road test by the Engineer) It is suggested the drivers seat base be stripped for a 
closer inspection by the dealer. 
Mr N responded to this report by saying that he is much taller and broader than the engineer 
which would explain why the engineer didnt experience the issue. 
Following this report Motability did arrange for the seat to be stripped for a closer inspection. 
In its internal notes it says:
10 Nov 2020
I have had the retailer strip the seat down and there dont seem a massive amount 
abnormal with it. There is a small amount of splitting on the foam but I dont think 
replacing will make much difference. The customer is suffering quite a bit of leg pain 
when driving and it seems that it may be the case that the vehicle is no longer 
suitable for him.
13 Nov 2020
Dealers have stripped seat back but there is nothing much wrong with it R does not 
feel there is anything wrong with the padding which can be rectified - R feel this 
solely relates to seat design and customers comfort  R advised customer mentioned 
having a short award of around 10 months (unable to apply for new car) - The 
extreme option would be to replace the seat with something adapted but this would 
be dependent on Motability funding and award length may be a factor.
16 Nov 2020
Advised R has confirmed no fault with seat - Do not feel there will be any benefitting 
re-building seat as it will be same (parts also on back order) - Customer has 10 
months award
I can see in its first final response letter that Motability gave Mr N the option of returning the 
car and waiting for the new car to be ready.  It said it could cancel the agreement early 
without a fee, but Mr N would need to have at least 12 months remaining on his award to 
apply for a new lease car. Unfortunately, at that time Mr N only had 10 months. Motability 
also said it could process an early cancellation and arrange to reinstate Mr N's enhanced 
rate mobility payments if he chose to return the car. Motability also included his referral 
rights to this service in that final response letter.
I can see that Mr N reapplied for his award and subsequently contacted Motability to order a 
new vehicle. Because of the lead time of the new vehicle Mr N continued to drive the car 
with the problem seat. In May 2021. Mr N raised the issue of the seat again with Motability. 
He said the seat was extremely uncomfortable and he wanted Motability to investigate the 
issues with the seat again. Motability asked another dealer to look at seat. In its notes it said "I have spoken with the service department who has advised that they can see what 
the issues is that the customer is experiencing. However, there is no manufacturing 
defect. The service department have tested the exact same seat in a different model 
of vehicle and have found that the seat is manufactured this way. The wear and tear 
on the seat wouldn't have helped the customers experience. There is no fix in place 
for this, as it's not faulty.
Mr N asked for a refund of the money he had paid for the vehicle to date. Motability said it 
was unlikely that it would refund the full allowance as there is no fault on the vehicle. It also 
told Mr N it couldnt arrange a hire car because there was no fault on the vehicle. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it chose to refund the advance payment of £1,699. It issued a second 
final response letter. 
Im satisfied that Motability appropriately investigated the problem Mr N reported with the 
seat. Mr N believes a further independent inspection is warranted as he believes there is a 
manufacturers fault. Im inclined to disagree with this. The first inspection by R was 
independent and found no fault. But R did say that although the problem wasnt experienced 
by the engineer he accepted parts of the seat frame could be digging into Mr Ns leg when 
cornering. Mr N himself noted that he was much taller and broader than the engineer. 
R recommended Motability strip the seat down to further investigate and Im satisfied it did 
so. Again, no fault was found. Motabilitys conclusion was that the vehicle was no longer 
suitable. When Mr N raised the issue of the seat again a few months later Motability 
arranged for another dealer to look at the seat and no fault was found. It said the seat is 
manufactured this way. And Im persuaded that this was the case. 
I notice from the contact notes that seat comfort had been particularly important to Mr N 
previously. An entry dated 4 April 2017 provides details regarding Mr Ns new choice of car 
(the car at the heart of this complaint), it says:
Asked if his current car still suitable - cust advised seating is not very comfortable 
and the ride is not good.
On 4 December 2017 and on 6 April 2018 it says:
Veh has sports/bucket seats and is causing cust pain and discomfort to the point 
where he is unable to drive it. RENEWAL CONDITIONS: (e.g. must be automatic, 
must test drive, etc): Must take for test drive Must not have sports/bucket seats.
The notes go on to say
cust adv he is ordering the new car (the subject of this complaint) in a manual as he 
cannot afford the AP on the automatic, and he advises the important thing is the 
height and the seats.
Where evidence is disputed, unclear or missing I must decide based on the balance of 
probability, that is, what I believe is likely to be the case. Because of his height and broad 
body and for his health issues Mr N requires a car with a very specific kind of seat. It 
appears likely that the seat was initially suitable or at least comfortable, but with time and 
usage the foam padding has worn down to the point that the frame or parts of the frame 
began to dig into his leg. Im satisfied that three inspections were carried out, including one 
which was independent and one which stripped down the seat. While I do appreciate Mr N 
was in significant discomfort when driving it doesnt necessarily follow that the cause is down 
to a manufacturers fault rendering the car of unsatisfactory quality. R noted an element of 
wear and tear in the seat and Im persuaded that the car was more likely no longer suitable in meeting Mr Ns needs. 
I can see that Motability offered Mr N a new car but he was unable to accept this at the time 
because he didnt have enough award remaining on his allowance at that time. Motability 
didnt need to offer to take the car back but Im pleased it did. And Motability isnt responsible 
for Mr N not being able to immediately take up that offer of a new vehicle. Motability also 
refunded the full amount of the advance payment Mr N made, £1,699, as a good will gesture 
to acknowledge the difficulties Mr N had been experiencing with the seat. I consider this to 
be more than fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman