DRN-3806627
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a Premier 
packaged bank account their account history is as follows.
Opened as a fee paying Platinum account in June 2005
Upgraded to a fee paying Premier account in September 2009
Mr and Mrs M have explained that they went into a branch of Lloyds as they were in financial 
difficulties. They discussed mortgages and loans and ended up with a credit card, an 
increased overdraft facility and a Premier account. They feel that this was not suitable given 
their circumstances at the time.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the sale of the Premier account and they didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold it to them. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this and therefore their complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. 
I should highlight that this complaint is only about the sale of the Premier account. 
We have not considered the sale of the overdraft or credit card - as this would need to be 
dealt with separately. I can see that this was mentioned as an issue in their original 
complaint to Lloyds. So if Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy with this aspect of their complaint, 
we can set this up as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr and 
Mrs M and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
From what I can see, Mr and Mrs M have not said that they thought they had to take out the 
Premier account or that they had no choice but to agree to it. Their main issue appears to be 
that it was recommended to them and was not a suitable recommendation given their 
circumstances.
At the time the Premier account was taken out it cost £25 a month and provided Worldwide 
travel insurance, comprehensive breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and home 
emergency cover. Importantly, it came with a £500 interest free overdraft buffer, with 
preferential rates for overdrafts used above this amount.
To reiterate, I am not able in this decision to look into the sale of the overdraft or credit card 
or whether they should have been recommended a loan instead of the overdraft. So I need 
to consider whether the Premier account was the most suitable account for them to hold 
given the £3,000 overdraft they were taking out at the time. 
In this instance, the main differences between the Premier account and the Platinum 
account (that they already held) was that for £7.50 a month more, they would not pay 
interest on the first £500 of their overdraft, rather than £250 on the Platinum account. And 
they received a reduced interest rate on the remainder of their overdraft  which was around 
2% less than the Platinum account charged. Given the size of the overdraft they were going 
to have, going forward, it seems that the additional savings they would receive in overdraft 
interest, could potentially outweigh the additional cost of having the Premier account. 
In addition to this, the Premier account offered Home Emergency cover, which the Platinum 
account did not, and slightly better breakdown cover than the Platinum account. It also came 
with travel insurance and mobile phone insurance - both of which I think Mr and Mrs M 
couldve used had they wished to do so. So I think that Lloyds recommending the Premier 
account was not unreasonable given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it was taken 
out. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs M may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of 
the benefits that the account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances, that makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
them, had they been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts came 
with.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr and Mrs M mayve 
read recently about financial products being mis-sold, they may now believe that the Premier 
account was mis-sold. But based on what Mr and Mrs M has said, alongside all of the 
available evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that their Premier 
account was mis-sold. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman