DRN-2722879
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ascent Performance Group Limited didnt act fairly when he repaid a 
shared equity loan. Ascent administers the loan on behalf of the lender. He asks that it 
assists in updating his property title.
What happened
Mr B repaid a shared equity loan in late 2019. Ascent were the administrators of the loan, 
appointed by and acting for the lender. Mr B is unhappy with the steps taken by Ascent to 
remove the lenders charge from his property title with the Land Registry. He says the Land 
Registry asked him for documents which Ascent didnt provide. 
Our investigator said Ascent had sent the necessary documents and information to Mr B. It 
wasnt acting for Mr B and couldnt complete or submit documents to the Land Registry on 
his behalf. While the Land Registry had destroyed documents Mr B sent to it, Ascent wasnt 
responsible for this. 
Mr B didnt agree, saying it still wasnt clear what he needed to do. He said Ascent had been 
unhelpful and delayed matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ascent sent a copy of the information pack and covering letter sent to Mr B setting out the 
steps needed to repay the shared equity loan. The last step says When your repayment is 
received we will send a Land Registry Form DS1 to your solicitors as evidence that your 
Equity Loan has been repaid in full. When Ascent wrote to Mr B confirming the amount to 
be repaid, this letter also said it would send a completed DS1 to his solicitor for registration 
at the Land Registry.
Mr B didnt appoint a solicitor. In February 2020 Ascent sent the form DS1, a letter 
confirming payment and its own authorisation to act on behalf of the lender to Mr B. The 
letter said these documents were for submission to the Land Registry. As Mr B hadnt 
appointed a solicitor, I think it was reasonable for Ascent to send the DS1 and other 
documents to him. 
Mr B says he wasnt told he needed a solicitor. I dont think Ascent had to tell Mr B to appoint 
a solicitor, although the information it sent to Mr B about the repayment process suggests it 
expected him to do this. I dont know whether Mr B would have appointed a solicitor if Ascent 
had specifically said he should. He could of course have sought help from a solicitor when 
he received the DS1 and other documents if he wasnt sure what to do. 
Mr B decided to make the submissions himself, which the Land Registry does allow. The 
Land Registry has an identity verification process, to reduce risk of fraud. The Land Registry 
asked Mr B to provide identity documents (using Land Registry forms ID1 and ID2). Ive 
looked at form ID1 and part of this has to be completed by a solicitor (or other legal 
professional). 
Mr B provided copies of the letters he received from the Land Registry. The first was dated 
in early May 2019. It asked for forms ID1 (for Mr B) and ID2 (for the lender). 
Mr B provided a second letter from the Land Registry dated later in May 2019. It asks for ID2 
(for the lender). It also asks that ID1 (for Mr B) is fully completed and verified by a solicitor. 
The letter says if it doesnt receive a full reply the application will be cancelled on 4 June 
2019. 
A third letter is dated late June 2019 and confirms the application is cancelled and 
documents destroyed. 
The Land Registry did ask for evidence of the lenders identity. Ascent says this might have 
been a misunderstanding. However, it seems the Land Registry wasnt satisfied with the ID1 
that Mr B provided, which it said wasnt fully completed. So its likely Mr Bs application 
would have failed regardless of whether an ID2 was needed or provided. I dont think Ascent 
made an error which was the main cause of the problems Mr B experienced in trying to have 
the charge removed from the property title.  
Ascent says it told Mr B what forms it thought he needed to complete and submit. It said it 
couldnt do this for him as it wasnt representing him. While some lenders complete the 
necessary formalities to remove a charge once a debt is repaid, not all lenders do this. Its 
clear from the information sent to Mr B that the lender (or Ascent on its behalf) wouldnt be 
undertaking this work. It assumed Mr Bs solicitor would submit the necessary forms to the 
Land Registry to remove the charge, and Mr B was made aware of this. 
Mr B says the lender made things difficult so it could remain on his property title to artificially 
inflate its own value. I havent seen evidence that this is the case. 
Ascents letter enclosing the DS1 said this was for submission to the Land Registry. While 
Mr Bs application to have his title updated was unsuccessful, based on what Ive seen I 
dont think this was due to an error by Ascent. Im sorry Mr B has found the Land Registry 
forms and process difficult. Mr B might want to consider seeking help from a conveyancer or 
solicitor. I dont think I can fairly require Ascent to undertake this work on his behalf.
The Land Registry destroyed the documents Mr B had sent to it. Ascent says it will send 
another DS1 to Mr B by recorded delivery. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman