DRN-3280309
The complaint
Mr O complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined his claim for 
fire damage to his property. He wants RSA to reconsider and settle his claim.
What happened
Mr O purchased a property in 2016 for around £650,000. The property was purchased in his 
sole name and supported by a mortgage (also in Mr Os sole name).
Mr O lived at the property with his wife and children and he insured the property with RSA.
Both Mr O and his wife were joint policy holders.
Mr O took out loans to extend and refurbish the property, and improvement works were 
carried out, increasing the value of the property.
In early 2019, Mr Os relationship with his wife broke down irreparably. He moved out of the 
property and petitioned for divorce. A non-molestation order was made in Mr Os favour, due 
to issues of violence against him.
Mr Os wife remained in the property and an occupation order was made permitting her to 
remain in the property, pending it being sold.
In September 2019, Mr O and his wife were granted their decree nisi. Mr O contacted RSA 
and advised them that he and his wife had separated. He gave RSA details of his new 
address for correspondence and removed his wife as a joint policy holder.
Details of that contact are not available, but RSA confirmed the changes to Mr O by letter 
shortly afterwards.
Also, in September 2019, the property was marketed at a sale price of £800,000.
In November 2019, a fire broke out at the property causing substantial damage.
Mr O informed RSA immediately and explained that it appeared that his wife had started 
fires at the property. She was later detained and charged with deliberately starting the fires.
RSA sent an assessor to the property. The assessor informed Mr O that the repair work 
would cost £44,359.76+VAT, but that it would not be covered by the policy as it appeared it 
was deliberately caused.
RSA then declined the claim. RSA argued that the policy placed an obligation on Mr O and 
his family members to take care of the property and to avoid loss or damage. RSA stated 
that it considered Mr Os wife to be part of his family, and so it applied the general exclusion.
Mr O challenged this decision and complained.
RSA sent its final response to Mr O in January 2021. It maintained the decision to decline 
the claim, again on the basis that it considered Mr Os wife to be his family.
Mr O contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was 
that Mr Os wife could not reasonably be considered as Mr Os family as she was no longer a 
partner, and was not living with Mr O. Our investigator therefore considered that the 
complaint ought to be upheld, and RSA should settle the claim.
RSA did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. RSA said that it had 
treated Mr Os wife as family as the fairest approach as, had it known that a separated 
partner was living alone at the property, it may have voided the policy from that time.
I set out my preliminary view on this complaint in a provisional decision issued in November 
2021. In that provisional decision I explained why I considered that the policy wording did not 
exclude Mr Os wife, and that Mr O had alerted RSA to his living arrangements some time 
before the fires. RSA did not then amend cover so cover continued unchanged. This 
included cover for malicious damage. I therefore thought that RSA should settle Mr Os claim 
and pay him £2000 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr O has responded, accepting the basis of the provisional decision, and advising that he 
has become aware of some items which were not costed in the claim valuation. These were 
the recently replaced kitchen and fitted wardrobes. The additional cost of these items is 
£13,828. 
RSA has responded, accepting the basis of the decision, and that the policy terms did not 
exclude Mr Os claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no objections have been made to my provisional decision that Mr Os claim should 
succeed, I adopt that provisional decision and reasoning as my final decision. 
Putting things right
As regards settlement, I had based my provisional decision on the valuation provided by 
RSAs surveyor at the time of the initial inspection. 
This does not appear to have included the valuations recently provided by Mr O. 
I therefore amend my decision settlement to remove the specific valuation of the claim as 
this appears to be insufficient to indemnify Mr O. 
Instead, I direct that Mr O can provide any additional evidence of costs which were not 
included in RSAs valuation to RSA, within the next 28 days. RSA should then settle the 
claim in line with its usual processes. 
It is then possible for RSA to scrutinise the claimed amounts, and if Mr O is unhappy with the way RSA has calculated settlement, he can raise a further complaint. 
I remain of the view that RSA ought to pay Mr O compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience, and in the absence of comments relating to my proposed compensation I 
consider that this is appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Os complaint and 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Reconsider Mr Os claim, including any previously unassessed losses. Mr O must 
provide details and evidence of such losses within 28 days of this decision;
Settle Mr Os claim, in line with the remaining policy terms; 
Add to the value of Mr Os claim, interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of 
claim up until the date of settlement; and
Pay to Mr O £2000 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman