DRN-4390763
The complaint
Mr F complains that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold him private medical insurance. 
What happened
Mr F took a private medical insurance policy with BUPA back in 2006. This was a non-
advised sale. Mr F believes the policy was mis-sold because following a recent claim he 
made in October 2022, he was unable to gain cover using the policy. He also said the 
nearest treatment facility for the condition hed suffered, was more than two hours away and 
so he said the policy was mis-sold. Mr F said had he known this, he wouldnt have opted for 
insurance with BUPA. 
BUPA said there was limited information available from the time the sale took place. 
However, it highlighted that renewal documents were sent to Mr F regularly, which included 
information pertaining to local treatment facilities, meaning he should have been aware of 
the local hospitals available through BUPAs network. 
Our investigator was initially unsure whether we could consider this complaint because of 
the length of time that elapsed since the policy was sold. However, BUPA gave consent for 
us to investigate this complaint. She concluded by saying she didnt believe the policy was 
mis-sold because it was a non-advised sale, meaning it was for Mr F to ensure the policy 
continued to meet his needs. She highlighted BUPA had sent renewal documents each year, 
which were clear and non-misleading, so Mr F was able to do that. 
Mr F disagreed. His reasons were the same as previously stated and borne from his 
declined medical claim. And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are broadly the 
same as those already explained by our investigator, and Ill explain why. 
This was a non-advised sale and so Im satisfied its Mr Fs responsibility to ensure the policy 
continued to meet his needs. I should say BUPA does have an obligation to ensure it shares 
information in a clear and non-misleading format, which Im satisfied it has. 
Theres limited information available from the time the policy was sold to Mr F. But that 
doesnt mean Im unable to come to a finding here. From the available evidence, Im 
satisfied this policy wasnt unsuitable, because it wouldve paid a successful claim. Ive dealt 
with Mr Fs complaint about his claims as part of a separate final decision and so I wont 
comment on those issues here. However, Im satisfied the policy was suitable because he 
benefited from the scope of cover. 
I accept Mr Fs arguments about there not being a closer hospital to his home, however, 
thats not reason enough to say the policy was mis-sold. Further, the hospital availability 
would most likely have looked very different back in 2006 when he took the policy. BUPA 
said there have been significant changes to its network over that time and I see no reason to 
dispute that point. 
Although theres no information from the time of sale, Im satisfied BUPA sent Mr F renewal 
documents at the start of each new policy year since 2010  which is the earliest record it 
has. Therefore, on balance, Im satisfied it wouldve most likely sent those documents for the 
period before that, since 2006. 
The policy terms sent each year, alongside the schedule and other policy information, 
signposts consumers to BUPAs hospital and consultant finder. This is a web-based tool 
consumers can use to check network availability in their local area. Ive highlighted this 
because I think it satisfactorily shows BUPA gave Mr F information in a clear, informative 
and non-misleading way, so he could check whether the policy continued to meet his needs. 
I also think it makes Mr Fs argument that the policy was unsuitable less persuasive, as he 
couldve checked this at any point, had it been a primary concern at the time the policy was 
sold, or even thereafter.
Im satisfied the policy provided Mr F with cover for a variety of symptoms and conditions, at 
hospitals within a reasonable distance from his home. So, although I appreciate for this 
specific condition, the nearest treatment facility was too far away, this doesnt persuade me 
the cover was unsuitable overall.   
My final decision
Its for these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman