DRN-2623983
The complaint
Mr H complains about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s handling of a claim on his 
building warranty. He believes NHBC have caused delays and havent handled his claim 
correctly.
All references to NHBC also include their agents.
This complaint relates to ongoing issues Mr H says he has experienced. My decision 
focusses on events following a previous final response issued by NHBC in September 2019 
to the date of their final response in May 2020. Any reference to events outside of these 
dates is purely for contextual purposes
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H remained unhappy with the amount NHBC offered in cash settlement. Mr H 
provided quotes and further information for NHBC to consider, and in November 
2019 they increased their offer.
Mr H still didnt agree the settlement offered was enough to complete the necessary 
work himself. He also highlighted there were previous failed or ineffective repairs that 
needed addressing. So NHBC agreed to attend Mr Hs property to assess these
NHBC attended Mr Hs property in January and February 2020. Following this the 
proposed scope of work was revised as NHBC said further work was required
NHBC increased their offer which I can see Mr H has accepted in February 2020
An appointment to attend the property was made in January 2020. I cant see the 
circumstances of the claim changed between the end of November 2019 and 
January 2020, so I do think NHBC couldve been more proactive in arranging an 
appointment to attend Mr Hs property. I have considered what NHBC said about 
challenges during the Christmas period  but this wouldnt account for the whole 
month of December. Even if an appointment wasnt available until January, it is 
possible with more notice it could have been arranged for an earlier date in the 
month, and considering the concerns Mr H has raised it would have at least provided 
reassurance to Mr H the matters were being progressed
Mr H instructed solicitors as he felt frustrated with the progress of the claim - and 
wants NHBC to cover the costs he incurred. I cant see anything that persuades me 
their involvement proactively resulted in movement or a different course of action in 
the claim, so I wont be asking NHBC to reimburse these costs
Taking into consideration everything Ive highlighted above, I think a total of £250 is a 
reasonable compensation amount as it fairly reflects the inconvenience, and obvious 
frustration, Mr H has been caused
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right National House-Building Council should pay Mr H £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman