DRN-2889793
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, didnt remove 
administration charges and interest from his account as theyd promised to do.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
On 22 June 2021 Mr S wrote to out investigator and explained that his complaint wasnt 
about not receiving a refund for faulty goods but the fact that shop direct never waived all 
the additional charges accrued.
Ive therefore only looked at that point. It was an issue that Very considered in their final 
response to Mr S in March 2021.
Very confirmed that they removed all administration charges regarding the graphics card 
transaction in October 2020. Those charges totalled £36.
There was also an adjustment error taken by mistake in that month which was returned the 
same day and for which Mr S hasnt been charged any interest.
As the account that Mr S used to purchase the graphics card had been closed, Very needed 
to credit his new account with the refund and then debit it before they could raise a cheque 
for £719.99, that Mr S subsequently cashed.
The refunds are shown on November 2020s statement.
Very provided £100 in compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience caused to him regarding 
the refund of his game card. I think that compensation was reasonable in the circumstances 
and I cant see that they have failed to refund any interest or charges made as a result of the 
issue. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Very to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman