DRN-3516662
The complaint
Mr L and Ms A complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr L and Ms A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr L and Ms A were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr L and Ms A decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020, Mr L and Ms As made a claim under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. They said that P had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced them to 
enter into the contract with P. They have made the following points:
They felt pressured to sign up to secure the FIT payments before they dropped. 
They deferred payment of the loan which incurred extra interest, which was not 
explained. 
The salesman showed them charts on his laptop that demonstrated clearly that loan 
repayments would be easily covered by FIT payments. They did not receive FIT 
payments until over three months later. 
The FIT payments have not covered the loan repayments and theyve been left with 
a significant deficit. 
They complained to P that this was pressured sales and misrepresentation, but they 
did not respond.
They are struggling to pay the loan as the FIT payments do not cover this. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr L and 
Ms A or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr L and Ms A and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr L and Ms A didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The sales tactics were high pressure, intimidating in some respects in that he pushed 
for a decision there and then and also rang 3 times after sales (before installation 
had even taken place) to ask for them to appear on film saying how wonderful the 
system was, before we could know that  for them to use as advertising. 
Statements made on the day were not in the follow-up information pack.
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act the mis-selling was Shawbrooks 
responsibility. 
P did not follow their complaints procedure and missed dates to respond to the 
complaint. All deadlines have been compromised in this complaint process by 
excessive time in responding to us (due in part to the amount of complaints against 
this company with the Ombudsman  which also is evidence of an issue with sales of 
Solar Panels).
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) is also relevant as P did not accept 
mis-selling even though they were acting as an agent for Shawbrook, this is bad 
practice.
They were sold the solar panels finance with undue pressure to sign on the day to 
keep the beneficial FIT rate. This made them feel uncomfortable, so they requested 
extra time to consider and had the finance offer extended  suggesting that they did 
not need to sign on the day. They were then charged interest on the finance 
extension by Shawbrook, which was not explained by the salesman (he just said 
extending was fine). They only found this out with paperwork sent about the first 
payment.
They were sold the solar panels using data sheets and graphs on the salesmans 
laptop on the day that were not part of the pack they then sent on pdf for us to sign 
as well as his verbal assurances. They were told theyd receive payments of 
minimum £100 per month  not quite enough to cover the loan but most likely the 
payments would be nearer £200 mark (not a promise accepted but a clear 
statement). 
They sent their last FIT statement for a quarter £16.57 (so about £5 per month in 
lowest generating months) to demonstrate how much of a mis-sell this was. We were 
both witnesses on the day to the pressure sales.
The pack sent by P to complete the sale and secure their signatures then 
demonstrated savings on electricity bills, but this is not the same as promised FIT 
payments the salesman made. The Project Solar salesman clearly stated that the 
payments (FIT) would be sufficient to cover loan costs each month and Mr L and 
Ms A were prepared to fund that saving in between quarterly payments. The loan 
was not competitive (at interest rate of 9% over 9 years) which kept them in debt to 
Shawbrook for an extended period.
They never expected to make money on the solar panels until after the loan was paid 
but were sold the finance on the promise that they would not be in financial deficit to 
the extent that has happened.
Based on their experience of the salesman on the day and the extended period they 
had to wait to see whether the panels were performing correctly they could not have 
removed themselves from the loan in the 14 day cooling off period  they had to wait 
3 months for a FIT statement to see this.
The time it has taken to investigate this complaint has put them in financial hardship 
eased only by refinancing the loan.
Shawbrook are responsible for the sales technique used and by appealing this 
decision Mr L and Ms A would like an admission that pressure sales is not 
acceptable and some compensation for the financial cost they have been living with 
while the case was investigated. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr L and Ms A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L and Ms A could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and 
Ms A and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr L and Ms A say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing in that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. They 
understood there would be a temporary shortfall each quarter since the loan repayments 
were monthly and the FIT payments quarterly but were happy to accept this. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr L and Ms A and 
Shawbrook. These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr L and Ms As testimony and recollection of 
the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. Im not persuaded that, on balance, the graphs and other 
information shown to Mr L and Ms A during the sales meeting is likely to have differed 
significantly from those in the quote. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr L and 
Ms As version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr L and Ms A were told that the cost of the system was 
£9,800.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £9,800.00. The monthly payment was 
£117.11. The total amount of credit is £9,700.00 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £14,153.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr L and Ms As recollections, Im satisfied 
that they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,800.00, 
it would cost Mr L and Ms A more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr L and Ms A have said that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as 
well as Mr L and Ms As recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what 
is most likely to have been said. 
The quote included the following graph, which compares the annual cost of the system with 
the projected benefits through FIT income and electricity savings. 
I think this graph is clear that there will be a shortfall during the 10-year term of the loan. And 
that the system would not pay for itself until around year 18.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr L and Ms A could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments and savings from the system. This is split out into 
the expected income and savings in the first year and the expected benefit over 25 years. 
I think it is clear from this that Mr L and Ms A could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £183.76, which results in an average monthly income of £15.31. As outlined 
above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would be a 
monthly loan repayment due of £117.11. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr L and 
Mrs A were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote is clear that the electricity savings Mr L and Ms A could expect from the system in 
the first year were £267.82. The total income and savings in year 1 are shown on the Your 
Savings Summary page to be £487.58. This includes the optional extras that Mr L and Ms A 
chose and equates to an overall monthly benefit of £40.63. Again, this is much less than the 
monthly loan repayment. 
Theres a section headed All of our payment options. This had three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months since this is the length of the loan that Mr L and Ms A entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £115.65 (slightly less 
than they paid due to the deferral of the first payment  the details of which were all shown 
clearly on the loan agreement). 
For each year of the 10-year loan the table shows the expected grand total return from the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment of £115.65, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This shows that there will be an 
average monthly deficit every year, meaning the loan repayments wouldnt be covered by 
the benefits of the system at any point during the loan term.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr L and Ms A could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr L and Ms A werent told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr L and Ms As version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr L and Ms A that the system would be self-funding. In 
doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr L and Ms A were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
projected performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that 
Mr L and Ms A could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr L and Ms A that the system would pay for 
itself by year 18 or 19, and this is supported by the table above and graph mentioned above, 
which were both included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced Mr L and Ms A to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr L and Ms A. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,866 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr L and Ms As FIT statements (up to 9 March 2022) and can see that their 
system, on average, has generated 2,865 kWh. This is around the amount estimated by P at 
the point of sale and within a reasonable margin of error, so Im satisfied that the system is 
performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this explains why Mr L and Ms A havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr L and 
Ms A couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr L and Ms A 
entered into the contract.
Mr L and Ms A have said they felt pressured into agreeing to the purchase. But to uphold the 
complaint against Shawbrook, I would need to be satisfied there was a misrepresentation  or 
breach of contract on the part of P. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr L and Ms A 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr L and Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman