DRN-3143760
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva 
responsible for their acts and omissions. 
 
What happened
For the year from February 2021, Mrs B had her car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Aviva. She was the policyholder. The policy also covered a named driver.
On 26 April 2021, Mrs Bs car was damaged in an accident. Aviva booked her car in at a 
garage for repair. Aviva didnt arrange a courtesy car.
On 6 May 2021 Aviva ordered a courtesy car for Mrs B and told her it shouldve arranged a  
courtesy car earlier. 
Mrs B complained to Aviva that she had had to chase progress reports and had suffered the 
inconvenience of being without a car for nine days.
On about 30 June 2021 Mrs B got her car back.
On 5 July 2021, Aviva wrote a final response. Aviva said it had offered (but Mrs B had turned 
down) the following:
for trouble and inconvenience £  75.00
for loss of use of courtesy car for 9 days at £10.00 per day £  90.00
total £165.00 
Mrs B brought her complaint to us in July. She asks for fair compensation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Avivas offer of £165.00 had been fair. But he recommended Aviva should refund Mrs Bs 
travel costs during those nine days on the basis she can provide proof of the costs.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Money back for travel comes to a total of about £30.00 and thats if she can find the 
receipt. 
She had difficulty trying to get shopping home without a vehicle with children in tow 
or getting them to nursery to then run to the train station. 
Whilst shes at no great financial loss, she doesnt feel £165.00 really holds Aviva 
accountable for the inconvenience. 
It is only a fluke that she was told she should have been given a car. She had made 
several calls to Aviva before being offered a car. So several people along the way 
knew she was without a car but also didnt tell her she was entitled to a car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Courtesy car  standard cover
A courtesy car is provided subject to availability to reduce your inconvenience and 
 possible ensure you remain mobile.
It is not intended to be an exact replacement for your car.
All courtesy cars have comprehensive cover under your policy for the period the 
courtesy car is provided.
1. A courtesy car will only be provided when your claim has been accepted and your 
car is repairable, and is being repaired by our approved repairer network.
2. A courtesy car is typically a small three door hatchback car with an engine size of 
1 litre.
3. If your car is immobile or unroadworthy we aim to provide a courtesy car within 
one working day (however if an incident occurs during a weekend or on a bank/public 
holiday, it may not be possible to provide a courtesy car until the following
normal working day).
So Mrs B was entitled to a courtesy car. 
The policy terms had a separate section about the option of a hire car. But that only applied 
if the hire car option was included in the policy schedule. And Mrs Bs policy schedule  
indicated that she hadnt taken that option. So I dont think Mrs B was entitled to a hire car.
Ive seen that she rang Aviva on six different days to find out what was happening both 
before and after she got the courtesy car. I accept that Aviva shouldve been more pro-
active.
Aviva missed several opportunities to offer Mrs B a courtesy car. She didnt realise that she 
was entitled to a courtesy car until Aviva told her on 6 May. 
In assessing fair compensation, we dont look to punish or deter poor service. Rather we 
look at the impact on the individual consumer.
As a result of the shortcomings Ive found in Avivas service, Mrs B suffered inconvenience. 
That included nine days during which she had to transport two children to and from nursery 
and get to her part-time work, shops and family. Ive noted that Monday 3 May 2021 was a 
bank holiday.
 Putting things right
Weighing it all up, I consider that £165.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for her 
inconvenience and distress including loss of use of a courtesy car.However, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay any rail or other fares for which 
Mrs B can provide documentary evidence of payment for the nine days up to 6 May, with 
interest at our usual rate.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B:
1. £165.00 for distress and inconvenience insofar as it hasnt already paid that amount; 
and
2. the amount of any rail or other fares for which Mrs B can provide documentary 
evidence of payment in relation to any of the nine days up to 6 May 2021; and
3. simple interest on the amount of such fares at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of reimbursement. If Aviva considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman