DRN-2809753
The complaint
Mr B complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA has refused to assist him with a faulty 
product he bought. 
What happened
Mr B says he bought an item via an online business I will call E in March 2020 that was 
faulty. He says he tried to sort matters out with the seller of the item without success and so 
asked PayPal to refund his money under its Buyer Protection scheme. Mr B says he 
couldnt speak to PayPal due to it not answering the telephone and eventually it said he was 
out of time for bringing his complaint. He would like his money refunded and says he isnt 
responsible for how long PayPal took to deal with his complaint or that it was unable to deal 
with it when he tried to contact it.
PayPal says its records show Mr B bought the item in May 2019 and that he raised a 
complaint about it more than 180 days after purchase in July 2020. It says its Buyer 
Protection agreement says any claims must be made within 180 days of purchases and so it 
acted correctly by telling Mr B it couldnt help him. PayPal has offered to refund the payment 
of £64.94 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr B had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained we could only consider PayPals actions and not those of the seller or 
manufacturer. The investigator thought Mr B had brought his complaint to PayPal outside of 
the 180-day period and that it hadnt made a mistake by rejecting the claim. The investigator 
also thought there was no evidence the complaint had been brought earlier.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he was told he had six years to bring a complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear to Mr B that I can 
only consider the actions of PayPal in this complaint and not, for example, the actions of the 
business that sold the item.
I appreciate Mr B told us he bought the item in March 2020 but having looked at PayPals 
records and the letters Mr B sent to the seller of the item, Im satisfied that the item was 
bought on 1 May 2019 and not in March 2020. I accept that may have been a mistake in the 
information Mr B gave us, but it is important for reasons I will explain.
I can see that Mr B tried to sort matters out with the seller of the item but without success. 
So, I understand why he asked PayPal to look at his complaint and to raise a complaint 
under its Buyer Protection scheme. I have looked carefully at the Buyer Protection scheme 
agreement and can see that any complaint must be made within 180 days of purchase. That 
means Mr B had until the later part of 2019 to make a complaint under that scheme.
I have looked carefully at PayPals records and can see that the first contact by Mr B 
recorded on those records is in July 2020. Im satisfied that contact is significantly outside of 
the required 180-day rule and so I dont think PayPal made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
telling Mr B that it couldnt assist him and that he was outside of the required time period to 
raise a complaint about the product he bought. Im also satisfied that I have not seen any 
evidence from Mr B that suggests there was earlier contact or contact within the 180-day 
period. And I can see that Mr B has raised previous complaints under the scheme which I 
think suggests on balance he was familiar with the process and time limits that complaints 
could be raised online and within a time limit.
I appreciate Mr B says that he thought he had six years to bring a complaint. But Im 
satisfied PayPals user agreement is clear about the time limits involved. Mr B of course had 
six years to bring a complaint to us which is a separate issue.
Overall, Im satisfied that PayPal has acted fairly by rejecting Mr Bs claim as being outside 
the agreement time limits. I appreciate that Mr B may have spent some time trying to sort 
matters out with the seller, but I cant fairly hold PayPal responsible for what took place. I 
can see that PayPal has offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to refund the payment in any 
event, and Mr B will need to contact it about that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman