DRN-3386119
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his credit card and recorded a 
default on his credit file. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr G had a credit card with HSBC that fell into arrears in 2018. In August 2018 Mr G 
complained to HSBC after monthly payments were returned to his bank account unpaid. 
HSBC issued a final response and said the payment had been reversed because Mr G 
didnt have enough money in his bank account.
The arrears increased from June 2018 onwards and HSBC contacted Mr G. HSBC sent 
Mr G regular statements, text messages and collections letters. HSBC says its letters were 
posted and made available via its online banking facility. As the arrears continued to grow
HSBC sent Mr G a default notice on 15 October 2018 and a formal demand on 29 
November 2018. The credit card then closed and a default was recorded on Mr Gs credit 
file.
Last year, Mr G complained that the default was impacting his ability to obtain a mortgage. 
Mr G repaid the outstanding balance and HSBC amended his credit file to show the 
balance was repaid but refused to remove the default. Mr G complained and said HSBC 
shouldve done more to discuss the status of his account with him before closing it and 
reporting a default.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it 
was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt initially uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
But, during their investigation, HSBC wrote to Mr G and confirmed it was refunding interest 
and charges applied to his credit card account whilst it was in arrears.
The investigator went on to change their view and upheld Mr Gs complaint on the basis 
it was the charges that had led to the credit card defaulting. The investigator said HSBC 
should remove the default from Mr Gs credit file.
HSBC didnt respond to the investigators view but Mr G confirmed he was happy to accept. 
As HSBC didnt respond to the investigator, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G but Ive reached a different decision to the investigator 
concerning how to fairly resolve his complaint. I havent been persuaded that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it closed the credit card and recorded a default on Mr Gs credit file. Ill explain 
why.
Lenders can close an account and record a default on a customers credit file if 
repayments arent maintained in line with a credit agreement. In this case, Mr G agreed to 
make a minimum payment each month but the account fell into arrears in 2018.
In Mr Gs case, I can see he was aware of the arrears building on his credit card going 
back to mid 2018. Whilst not the subject of this case, Mr G complained about direct debit 
payments hed made being returned to his bank account. HSBC responded and confirmed 
why those payments were returned. But the account remained in arrears and, as the 
months passed, the overdue amount grew.
Businesses can move to close an account and record a default following three to six 
months of arrears. In this case, I can see Mr G had difficulties going back to June 2018 and 
the account closed in December 2018. Between those dates, Mr G didnt make his 
contractual monthly payments and the arrears grew to a point where Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for HSBC to take action.
When a credit card falls into arrears, I wouldnt expect a business to close it and record a 
default without first trying to contact the borrower and reach a solution.
I havent seen any evidence that, after Mr G complained in August 2018, he contacted 
HSBC to ask for additional support. I know Mr G says HSBC shouldve done more to 
contact him and discuss the status of his account. But Im satisfied it wrote to him as 
claimed and made correspondence available online. In addition, the rules HSBC operates 
under require it to send important information, including a default notice or formal demand, 
in a durable format like the post. So I think it was fair for it to write to Mr G with that 
information.
I know HSBC recently contacted Mr G and issued a refund for interest and charges he 
incurred. But Im not persuaded it was the interest or charges that caused the credit card to 
default. The information Ive seen shows it was the lack of regular payments to the account 
that caused it to close.
Mr G has told us he only found out about the default in 2021 when trying to apply for a 
mortgage. But Im satisfied the information shows Mr G was aware he had a credit card 
with an outstanding balance with HSBC and that he stopped making payments in 2018.
I havent found anything that indicates HSBC sought to mislead Mr G about what was 
happening with his account. In my view, the decision to close Mr Gs credit card and record a 
default on his credit file in 2018 was fair.
As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly, I dont intend to tell it to delete the 
default or take any further action.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. 
Mr G responded and said he has never received any correspondence from HSBC relating to 
its intention to close and default his credit card. Mr G also pointed out hed made a payment 
of £100 in November 2018 and says he was told by staff that everything was fine. Mr G 
explained he only found his account was in default in 2021 when he applied for credit and 
was declined. Mr G also said the default was retrospectively applied by HSBC in 2021, not in 
2018 as it claims. HSBC responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr G for the level of detail hes given in his response. I understand my 
provisional decision most likely came as a disappointment. But I have to take all the 
available information into account in order to reach a fair decision and I havent been 
persuaded that HSBC made a mistake. 
Mr G says the default was only applied in 2021 but the evidence Ive seen doesnt support 
that. HSBC supplied all its pre default correspondence from 2018 and has confirmed the 
date of default. I understand Mr G entered into an arrangement to clear the outstanding 
balance by making monthly payments and that it was fully repaid in 2021. But Im satisfied 
the default was being reported by HSBC from 2018 as it claims. 
Mr G has told us he hasnt received any correspondence from HSBC about the default. But 
HSBC has sent in copies of its letters and I note theyre all correctly addressed. In addition, 
Ive seen systems information that shows the letters were sent to Mr G and HSBC says they 
were also made available online. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened having taken all the available information and evidence into account. In this case, 
Im satisfied the available information shows HSBC did write to Mr G as it claims and sent 
him notice of its intention to close and default his credit card. 
Mr G has pointed out he made a payment in November 2018 and thought his account was 
fine from that point. But, at that stage, the account was over £600 in arrears. I can see Mr G 
made a payment of £100 towards the debt, but that wasnt sufficient to clear the arrears or 
stop his account closing and a default being recorded. Looking at Mr Gs statements, I think 
its fair to note it had been several months since regular payments had been made and the 
level of arrears had continued to grow. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent found that HSBC treated him unfairly by closing his 
credit card and recording a default on his credit file. In my view, HSBCs decision was 
reasonable when considering the level of repayments made to Mr Gs credit card. 
Mr G has pointed out he made payments from 2019 and ultimately settled the outstanding 
balance. But those payments didnt start until March 2019 when Mr Gs account had been 
closed for several months. 
Mr G says HSBC recently took the decision of refunding £922 to his credit card and shows it 
made errors with his account. HSBC has confirmed the decision to issue a refund followed a 
general review of his account and the support provided as well as charges applied while 
Mr G was in financial difficulties. Ive carefully considered whether those charges made the 
difference between Mr Gs account remaining open or not. Whilst Im pleased HSBC did 
refund some charges, I remain satisfied the default came about due to missed payments and 
arrears, not because of fees. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G but as I havent been persuaded to change my view, Im 
not telling HSBC to take any further action to resolve his complaint.  My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman