DRN-2777933
The complaint
A business called J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont agree to its request 
for a refund under the direct debit guarantee scheme.
What happened
J had been receiving professional services from a company that I will refer to as Y. In April 
2020, J told NatWest that Y had been claiming direct debit payments for many years without 
prior notification. J said this was in breach of the direct debit guarantee, so it asked NatWest 
to refund the payments it had made going back to 2011.
NatWest initially said that J was covered the direct debit guarantee scheme which meant it 
could reclaim unauthorised payments. But after NatWest contacted Y, it provided evidence 
that it had notified J about the payments before collecting them. So NatWest declined Js 
claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that Js complaint be upheld. He thought that given the 
timeframe for which J wanted the refund, it was reasonable of NatWest to ask Y for further 
information when considering its claim. 
The investigator didnt think that NatWest had acted unfairly as the underlying issue was 
contractual in nature and therefore not covered by the direct debit guarantee.
J wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. It accepted that this service couldnt 
consider direct debits earlier than April 2014. But J says it never received a monthly invoice 
from Y. J wanted to see the invoices before this service made a final decision.
The investigator sent the invoices to J and it said Y had never supplied them before taking 
the direct debits. J says that the direct debit guarantee specifically says that prior notification 
of direct debits must be sent otherwise monies are refundable.
J knows of other NatWest customers of Y who have received refunds. J thinks that NatWest 
owes it a duty of care and that it has unfairly taken Ys side.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Js payments to Y are covered by the direct debit guarantee. This means that customers are 
entitled to a full and immediate refund from their bank if an error is made in the payment of 
the direct debit. For instance, if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong 
amount is collected.. The direct debit guarantee scheme says it cannot be used to address 
contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
The direct debit guarantee allows account holders to receive an immediate refund from their 
bank in certain but not all circumstances. The right to a refund isnt automatic or absolute. 
J wanted to claim several years worth of direct debit payments to Y. And it had been making 
regular payments to Y during this time which leads me to question why it decided to dispute 
the payments so late in the day. Given the historic nature of Js claim, I consider it was 
reasonable of NatWest to ask Y for further details to establish if it had valid grounds to apply 
the guarantee.
Y gave NatWest a series of invoices addressed to J. Based on this evidence, NatWest was 
satisfied that Y had given J advance notice before taking the direct debits, so it declined the 
indemnity claim.
I can only decide whether NatWest handled Js request fairly and reasonably  and I think 
that it did. NatWest initially said it would honour the claim in line with the direct debit 
guarantee but then evidence led it to change its decision. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable of NatWest to accept the invoices as evidence of advance 
notification of the direct debit payments. I appreciate that J says it never received the 
invoices and didnt get any email notifications of the direct debits, but this would be for Y to 
address, not NatWest. 
My understanding of how things work with Y is that invoices are made available through an 
online portal.  And under the terms of Ys contract, the customer is responsible for accessing 
the online portal and checking its invoices. If J has a problem with the way in which Y 
conducted its business, I consider this to be a contractual issue which would fall outside of 
the direct debit guarantee.
J says that Y now sends out prior notification before taking debits and that this means it 
knows its previous practice was wrong. I cant make a finding about the way in which Y 
notifies customers. So, I dont comment further on this. 
J says that NatWest has credited other customers of Y. But Im considering the individual 
circumstances of Js complaint. Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably when it didnt refund the requested direct debit payments to J. I dont require 
NatWest to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman