DRN-3549441
The complaint
Mr H complains about three loans provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he says were unaffordable. He is also concerned about 
ELLs loan settlement calculations.
What happened
ELL agreed three loans for Mr H between July 2017 and July 2018. Loans 2 and 3 were 
each used to repay the previous loan. According to the most recent information Ive seen, 
Loan 3 hasnt been repaid. Some of the information ELL provided about the loans is shown 
in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 10/7/2017 5/1/2018 £1,000 £86.16 24
2. 5/1/2018 3/7/2018 £3,000 £205.69 36
3. 3/7/2018 Unpaid £5,100 £287.79 36
Mr H says that the loans were unaffordable and as a result he needed to borrow further 
sums which by 25 June 2021 totalled £25,990.44.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint about Loan 3 should be upheld. With 
regard to Loans 1 and 2, he noted that the checks undertaken by ELL were reasonable and 
proportionate and showed that Mr H would have had around £369 and £960 left each
month on Loans 1 and 2 respectively after meeting his estimated living costs and rent 
commitments. Based on this, the investigator said that the repayments of around £86 on 
Loan 1 would have appeared affordable. So, he couldnt say that ELL shouldnt have agreed 
to lend on this basis. On Loan 2, the investigator said that ELL might have taken the 
opportunity to enquire about Mr Hs other bank account, although that account wasnt 
showing any overdraft usage on its credit report. Otherwise, the investigator didnt think ELL 
would have found any reason not to lend to Mr H. So, he couldnt say ELL acted unfairly.
With regard to Loan 3, the investigator said that ELLs checks werent reasonable and 
proportionate. He didnt see why Mr H would need to borrow again if he could
demonstrate the level of disposable income ELL had calculated. And the amounts Mr H 
needed to borrow to repay his previous loans in addition to the additional money he wanted 
to borrow meant that Mr H had become seriously indebted to ELL. On balance, he didnt 
think this was a sustainable way to borrow money and he said that ELL should have 
recognised this from Mr Hs pattern of borrowing and rapidly increasing indebtedness.
ELL disagreed. It responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:-
- It noted the investigators comments about Mr Hs basic regular income being lower than 
it had calculated. ELL said that even if it had taken a more conservative approach and 
used Mr Hs lowest income seen throughout his history with it, he would still have had a 
disposable income.
- It had used Mr Hs then current rent amount of £900 for affordability calculations 
although he was shortly to buy a property. It said that Mr Hs new mortgage repayment 
would be considerably lower than the rent amount, so he would have a higher 
disposable income once he was no longer renting.
- It referred to the investigators comments that neither of Mr Hs current accounts showed 
significant signs of financial stress and that Mr Hs debts didnt appear to be increasing. 
So, ELL concluded that Loan 3 was affordable, sustainable and responsibly lent.
Mr H responded to the investigators view by providing this Service with further information 
about his expenditure, credit taken out since Loan 3 by himself and his partner, and he 
provided the bank statements from around the time of Loan 3 for the joint account he shared 
with his partner.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H
and to ELL on 18 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said I would investigate each aspect of Mr Hs complaint under separate headings.
Irresponsible lending 
When ELL lent Loans 1 to 3 to Mr H, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr H could 
sustainably repay his loans. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr H. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Loan 1
ELL provided Mr H with Loan 1 in July 2017. The interest rate was 84.9%, (127.1% APR). 
The loan was to be repaid by 24 monthly repayments of £86.16. Mr H told the lender that the 
loan was to be used to buy a car. If Mr H made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£2,067.84 in total. The loan was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2.
It appeared that ELL had met with Mr H at its office and gathered some information from him 
about his income and accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out 
a credit check and saw statements for Mr Hs main current account for a period of almost 
two months. 
Mr H was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above allowed ELL to 
form a detailed view of Mr Hs finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks wasnt always enough. A lender also needed to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it had made a fair lending decision.
Mr H told ELL he had one dependent and was a tenant paying monthly rent of £900. ELL 
used the income amounts shown on Mr Hs bank statements to provide an average income 
of £2,287.97. It used the results of its credit checks and other information to calculate Mr Hs 
credit commitments to be £100. ELL had estimated Mr Hs living costs to be £829.21 by 
calculating 35% of Mr Hs income and it said that his monthly disposable income after its 
loan repayment would be £373.80. 
I could see why ELL would have thought the loan repayment would be affordable based on 
what it had calculated. But I thought it should have gathered more information than it did for 
the following reasons.
I was concerned that ELL seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr H had a monthly 
disposable income of some £373.80 yet needed to borrow £1,000 at an APR of 127.1%, for 
the purpose of buying a car. I could see that Mr Hs monthly income on the bank statements ranged from around £2,009 
to £2,323. As Mr H had only been in his job for three months, I thought it might have been 
prudent to take the lowest income on the bank statements rather than the average of the two 
highest monthly income figures. Using the lowest income figure would have reduced Mr Hs 
disposable income to less than £100 to meet any unexpected costs. With a monthly 
disposable income of less than £100, I thought there was a foreseeable risk in Mr Hs 
circumstances that he wouldnt be able to meet his repayments on Loan 1 sustainably. So, I 
thought ELL needed to carefully check Mr Hs expenses on the bank statements it saw to 
check that Mr H would be able to repay Loan 1 sustainably over the term of 24 months.
Id also reviewed ELLs credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr H had no live 
loans. There was a defaulted payday loan for £500 from August 2011 and it appeared that 
Mr H had made no repayments to that balance. Whilst Id thought the default might not have 
caused ELL additional concerns because of its age, I did think that ELL might have been 
concerned that Mr H had made no payments to that balance despite having a relatively high 
disposable income according to its calculations. 
Id also reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for Mr Hs main current account. Whilst there 
were some notes on the statements that ELL appeared to have made about some of the 
transactions, it didnt seem that it had used the bank statements it had to verify its
estimate of Mr Hs expenses. And it didnt appear to have noted that there were barely any 
living costs nor any rent payments on the statements. Although Mr Hs income was paid into 
the account, most of it was transferred to another account each month. The balance left in 
the account was used either to loan or repay money to a friend (it wasnt clear which) or in 
one month to make a large cash withdrawal. Mr H had also spent around £120 from that 
account for food and petrol each month. I thought ELL ought to have been concerned that it 
didnt appear to have a complete picture of Mr Hs financial situation from what it had seen 
and that it ought to have asked Mr H for the bank statements for the account to which he 
was making the large transfers to get a better understanding of his financial situation rather 
than using an estimated figure for his living expenses. This was so ELL could assure itself of     
Mr Hs true financial position and that he could make the loan repayments in a sustainable 
way over the 24 months term. As I couldnt see that it had done this, I needed to consider 
what ELL would have seen if it had carried out further checks.
Id asked the investigator to ask Mr H for his bank statements for the account into which 
most of his income was transferred. But these hadnt been received. So, I hadnt been able 
to get a picture of what his true financial situation was like when he applied for Loan 1. That 
meant I couldnt say that, if ELL had completed further checks, it wouldve found that Mr H 
couldnt afford to repay Loan 1. So, based on the information Id seen, I wasnt able to 
conclude that ELL shouldnt have agreed to provide Loan 1 to Mr H. Id said that if Mr H was 
able to provide us with the relevant copies of his bank statements, I would reconsider my 
decision. But subject to any further representations by Mr H or ELL, I didnt intend to say that 
Mr Hs complaint about Loan 1 should be upheld.
Loan 2
Mr H had asked to refinance Loan 1 just six months into its two-year loan term. I thought that 
in itself should have caused some concerns to ELL as well as the large increase in the loan 
amount. The loan was for £3,000. ELL used £886.90 from the loan proceeds to repay     
Loan 1 and Mr H received £2,113.10. The interest rate was 72.09%, (102.9% APR). The 
loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly repayments of £205.69. If Mr H made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £7,404.84 in total. The loan was repaid from the proceeds of  
Loan 3.ELL had again met with Mr H and again gathered some information from him about his 
income and accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It saw Mr Hs bank 
statements for his main current account for the period 13 November 2017 to 2 January 2018. 
Mr H told ELL that the loan was for a honeymoon. We hadnt received any credit checks 
made before this loan, although ELLs affordability form showed the amount of Mr Hs 
existing credit commitments as just the monthly repayment amount for Loan 1.
Mr H had again told ELL that he had one dependent and was a tenant paying monthly rent of 
£900. ELL had again used the income amounts shown on Mr Hs bank statements to provide 
an average income of £3,066.36. It had estimated Mr Hs living costs to be £1,000 and it said 
that his monthly disposable income after its loan repayment would be £880.67. 
I could again see why ELL would have thought the loan repayment to be affordable based 
on what it had calculated. But I thought it should have gathered more information than it did 
for the following reasons.
I was concerned that ELL seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr H had a monthly 
disposable income of some £880.67 a month yet he needed to borrow £3,000 at an APR of 
102.9%, for the purpose of a holiday.
I could see that Mr Hs monthly income on the bank statements ranged from around £2,795 
to £3,175. As ELL hadnt seen Mr Hs payslips, I thought it might have been prudent to take 
the lowest monthly income amount shown on the bank statements rather than the average of 
the two highest incomes. That would have reduced the monthly disposable income 
estimated by ELL by around £270.
Id reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for Mr Hs main current account. Whilst there 
were some notes on the statements that ELL appeared to have made about some of the 
transactions, it didnt seem that it had used the bank statements to verify its estimate of      
Mr Hs expenses. And again, it didnt appear to have noted that there were barely any living 
costs, nor any rent payments shown on the statements. Although Mr Hs monthly salary 
income was paid into the account, most of it was transferred to another account each month. 
The balance left in the account appeared to have been mostly used to either loan or repay 
money to friends. It wasnt clear which. But I thought ELL ought to have enquired further 
than it did if it was the case that Mr H was having to borrow money from friends regularly.  
Mr H also spent around £270 from that account for food and petrol over the period of the 
statements. 
I had again thought ELL ought to have been concerned that it didnt have a complete picture 
of Mr Hs financial situation from what it had seen and that it ought to have asked Mr H for 
the bank statements for the account to which he was making the large transfers to get a 
better understanding of his financial situation rather than using an estimated figure for his 
living expenses. As I couldnt see that it had done this, I needed to consider what ELL would 
have seen if it had carried out further checks.
Id asked the investigator to ask Mr H for his bank statements for the account into which 
most of his monthly salary income was paid. But these hadnt been received. So, I hadnt 
been able to get a picture of what his true financial situation was like when hed applied for 
Loan 2. That meant I couldnt say that, if ELL had completed further checks, it wouldve 
found that Mr H couldnt afford to repay Loan 2. So, based on the information Id seen, I 
wasnt able to conclude that ELL shouldnt have agreed to provide Loan 2 to Mr H. Id said 
that if Mr H was able to provide us with the relevant copies of his bank statements, Id 
reconsider my decision. But subject to any further representations by Mr H or ELL, I didnt  
intend to say that Mr Hs complaint about Loan 2 should be upheld.
 Loan 3
Mr H had asked to refinance Loan 2 just six months into the three year loan term. I thought 
ELL ought to have been concerned about Mr Hs need to borrow again for the third time in 
around a year. And of even more concern, Loan 3 was for £5,100, far more than hed 
borrowed previously. I thought both the need to refinance Loan 2, and to take so much 
additional borrowing should have caused serious concerns to ELL about the state of Mr Hs 
finances.
Id also noted from ELLs loan account statement that Mr H had made a late payment        
(11 days late) in March 2018 on Loan 2. So, I thought it should also have had some 
concerns about that. 
ELL provided Mr H with Loan 3 in July 2018. The loan amount was £2,100 higher than       
Mr Hs previous loan. ELL used £3,137.51 from the loan proceeds to repay Loan 2 and Mr H 
received £1,962.49. The interest rate was 53.9%, (69.4% APR). The loan was to be repaid 
by 36 monthly repayments of £287.79. If Mr H made each payment when it was due, hed 
pay £10,360.44 in total. 
ELL had again gathered some information from Mr H about his income and accommodation 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also asked for a payslip and bank statements for 
Mr Hs main current account. 
Mr H had again told ELL he had one dependent and was paying £900 rent. ELL used an 
income amount of £3,089.63. It had used statistical data from the Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Hs living costs to be £999 and it said that his monthly 
disposable income after its loan repayment would be £902.84. 
I again could see why ELL would think the loan repayment to be affordable based on what it 
had calculated. But I thought it should have gathered more information than it did for the 
following reasons.
Id reviewed the payslip and bank statements that ELL had received from Mr H. I could see 
that the payslip showed that Mr H had received a bonus, weekend pay and a referral fee 
which meant that his income for that month was likely to be significantly higher than his 
usual net income So, I didnt think ELL could rely on the net salary amount shown in the 
payslip as being guaranteed income going forward. I thought it would have been reasonable 
here for ELL to have used a net income based on Mr Hs gross basic income of £2,708.33 in 
its calculations as the loan was to be for a period of 36 months. Id calculated this to be 
around £2,123. If ELL had used this income in its disposable income calculations, it didnt  
appear that Mr H would have had any monthly disposable income. So, I thought ELL needed 
to carefully check the bank statements it saw to check that Mr H would be able to repay the 
loan sustainably over the term of 36 months.
Id noted that ELL used ONS data to assess Mr Hs living costs. But I thought by the time of 
Loan 3 and in Mr Hs circumstances, it needed to tailor its assessment to Mr Hs actual 
financial situation.
ELL had also carried out a credit check. Id reviewed the credit check and could see that it 
showed that Mr H had no credit other than his loan from ELL. So, I didnt think the credit 
check should have caused ELL any concerns. 
Id reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for the period 14 April 2018 to 3 July 2018. It 
didnt seem that ELL had used the bank statements to verify Mr Hs expenses. Id noted that 
Mr Hs account didnt seem to have an overdraft facility. And ELL didnt appear to have noted that there were barely any living costs nor any rent payments on the statements. 
Although Mr Hs income was paid into the account, most of it was again transferred to 
another account each month. The balance left in the account appeared to have been mostly 
used to loan or repay money to friends. It wasnt clear again which. But I thought ELL ought 
to have enquired further than it did if it was the case that Mr H was having to borrow money 
from friends regularly.
Mr H was also spending regular small amounts on food and petrol over the period of the 
statements. He didnt appear to be managing the account well as there was a returned 
payment and unpaid transactions fees. The account was around £17 overdrawn for 15 days 
and it was again overdrawn the day before the loan was made. I again thought ELL ought to 
have been concerned that it didnt have a complete picture of Mr Hs financial situation from 
what it had seen and that it ought to have asked Mr H for the bank statements for the 
account to which he was making the large transfers to get a better understanding of his 
financial situation rather than using statistical data for his living expenses. As I couldnt see 
that it did this, I needed to consider what ELL would have seen if it had carried out further 
checks.
Mr H had supplied this Service with bank statements for another account which was a joint 
account. Id noted from these that there was another account used for transfers and Id 
asked the investigator to ask Mr H for the statements for that account. I couldnt see that we 
had received those statements.
Id reviewed the bank statements for June 2018 for the joint account which Mr H shared with 
his partner. I could see that both parties transferred a cash amount into this account each 
month and that Mr Hs share was around 70% of the total amount paid in. Id reviewed the 
spending on the bank statements. The total of Mr Hs share of the reasonably identifiable 
spend on housing costs, financial commitments, child minder costs, child support, phone, TV 
package, insurance, and water was greater than the monthly net income Id calculated using 
Mr Hs basic salary. So, I thought he wouldnt have been left with sufficient disposable 
income to repay ELLs loan. Mr H also told this Service that no food or vehicle running costs 
were paid from the joint account. He believed his partner had run up further debts with loans 
and credit cards in her name to afford these expenses.
Id noted that ELL had said that Mr H was shortly to buy a property, and that Mr Hs new 
mortgage repayment would be considerably lower than the rent amount. So, it said that he 
would have a higher disposable income once he was no longer renting. But I didnt think this 
was likely to be accurate. I thought ELL needed to also consider the additional costs incurred 
when owing a home which wouldnt necessarily be incurred when renting. 
I could see that Mr H paid his second and fourth payments late after taking out Loan 3. I 
thought this was foreseeable.
Altogether, I thought if ELL had carried out further checks, it ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr H was most likely over committed financially, it was likely he would need to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Loan 3 and that he wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay 
his loan over the 36 months term. 
So, I thought ELL had made an unfair lending decision when it agreed to lend Loan 3 to him. 
And, subject to any further representations by Mr H or ELL, I intended to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about Loan 3 and say that ELL should put things right as shown below. 
Early settlement figuresId noted that Mr H had an additional complaint regarding the lenders settlement calculations  
which wasnt upheld by the investigator. Id asked the investigator to ask Mr H whether he 
wished me to investigate this aspect of his complaint. He didnt respond to this query. 
But Id read the information wed received from the parties about this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint. Id noted that Mr H was unhappy about the loan settlement amount ELL required. 
Id noted that in its final response letter, ELL had said that this was calculated in compliance 
with the format prescribed under the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 
and pursuant to the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It also said this was outlined in Section 10 of 
the terms and conditions of Mr Hs loan agreements. Id considered the information Mr H had
provided about this, and the information I had about the loans, and overall, I wasnt 
persuaded that ELLs calculations were incorrect.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr H or ELL, I didnt propose to uphold this 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
ELL should:-
 remove any interest and charges still outstanding on Loan 3 and treat all the payments    
Mr H has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
 if reworking the loan account as Ive directed results in Mr H effectively having made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
 If reworking the loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then I remind ELL 
that it should take a sympathetic view if it needs to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr H;
 remove any adverse information already recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to Loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr H 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr H has accepted my provisional decision and ELL hasnt provided a response 
to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require ELL to take the 
steps set out above under the heading Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right 
as Ive set out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman