DRN-3900857
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) when 
she needed to deposit a cheque at a branch. She also complains they discriminated against 
her. 
What happened
In December 2022, Ms Y travelled to a Santander branch to deposit a cheque. Upon arrival, 
she found the ATM outside wasnt working.
She knocked the door of the branch and she was told by a staff member that she needed to 
wait until the branch opened to use an ATM inside. According to Ms Y, she explained she 
couldnt wait as she needed to return home to care for her mother.
During the back and forth, another staff member told her she could deposit the cheque at the 
post office. Ms Y proceeded to do so. Later, she realised the cheque would take longer to 
clear compared to Santanders clearing process. Ms Y says as the cheque took longer to 
clear than she anticipated, a bill wasnt paid on time and she incurred a charge. She says 
Santander staff shouldve shown more compassion given her circumstances, they 
discriminated against her, they should reimburse her for the late payment fee and pay her 
compensation. 
Santander said at the time Ms Y attended the branch it wasnt open meaning she couldnt 
access the ATMs inside. They also said cheques clearing at the post office may take slightly 
longer than their own process. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms Y referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He believed the Santander staff had acted 
reasonably. He also said the staff member was trying to help Ms Y by suggesting an 
alternative but they couldnt be held responsible for the cheque clearing time and the 
subsequent late payment of Ms Ys bill. He concluded Santander had acted fairly and hadnt 
discriminated against Ms Y.
Ms Y disagreed and maintained her position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can recognise Ms Ys frustration that she wasnt able to deposit the cheque at one of 
Santanders external ATMs as she intended. I also appreciate the reasons why she was 
unable to wait for the branch to open. But I must also take into account, malfunctioning 
ATMs can happen from time to time. Its unfortunate but such things do happen. Santander 
has told our service as soon as the ATM issue was discovered it was reported and fixed. 
They also accept Ms Ys feedback that a sign shouldve been placed on the ATM to let 
people know it wasnt working. I find Santanders course of action to be fair. 
However even if Santander had put a sign on the external ATM, in my opinion it wouldnt 
have materially changed what happened here. As it wasnt working, Ms Y could either wait 
for the branch to open and use an ATM inside or deposit the cheque elsewhere. As the 
branch wasnt open yet, I dont find the staff members were obligated to let Ms Y inside to 
use an ATM nor were they required to assist her before the branch opened. Im aware Ms Y 
believes it wouldve been reasonable for them to have simply taken the cheque and her 
account details to deposit it once the branch opened but I disagree. 
The branch manager has explained, letting consumers inside the branch before their 
opening times would be a security concern and against their process. In the circumstances, I 
consider that fair, they have opening hours to adhere to. I also dont find handing over a 
cheque and account details (on a piece of paper or verbally) through a set of doors whilst 
standing outside of a branch to be appropriate given security concerns. 
Nevertheless, its clear a staff member was trying to help Ms Y by suggesting an alternative 
way for her to deposit the cheque. There is no suggestion that staff member was aware of 
the urgency for the cheque to be cleared into the account so Ms Y could pay a bill. I also 
dont find it was the staff members responsibility to advise Ms Y on the cheque clearing 
times for another firm. 
Given the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander treated Ms Y fairly and reasonably. 
Discrimination 
Ms Y complains she was discriminated against but I note she hasnt said on what grounds. 
However as shes explicitly made reference to the race of the staff members who she 
believes helped her and those that didnt, Im assuming she is saying she was discriminated 
against on grounds of race. 
I need to stress that our service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal alternative to 
the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out 
within the Act. However, I can consider whether the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and in order to do that Ive taken a number of things into consideration 
including the Equality Act 2010.
Having done so and for the reasons already explained above, Im satisfied Santander 
treated Ms Y fairly. While I appreciate she perceived she was treated differently by certain 
staff members of a different race to her own, like the investigator I simply find thats due to 
one staff member trying to go over and above to help Ms Y as opposed to her being treated 
unfairly due to her race. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Simona ReeseOmbudsman