DRN-2797545
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC administered his 
request for a payment holiday on his business loans.
 
What happened
Mr D held two business loans with Barclays (referred to as Loan 1 and Loan 2). He 
contacted the bank on 26 March 2020 with a view to taking a payment holiday on both loan 
accounts. 
Initially, Barclays said that this could only be arranged by consolidating the two loans into a 
new one and then deferring payments on that. Despite some initial conversations with Mr D 
about that, the bank didnt make any progress on an application and a monthly payment on 
Loan 2 was debited from his account on 13 April. 
Following a call from Mr D on 14 April, Barclays reversed the recent payment in the hope 
that the payment holiday would be in place shortly. 
On 29 April, and after a change in process which meant that a new loan would not be 
required to obtain a payment holiday, Barclays sanctioned a payment holiday on Loan 1 but 
not Loan 2. With the recent payment having been reversed, Loan 2 was now showing as 
being in arrears and so was referred to the banks financial assistance team.
Barclays wrote to Mr D on 18 May to confirm that a three-month payment holiday was now in 
place for Loan 1. By this time, Mr D had raised a complaint about the delays in getting the 
payment holiday set up. This led to further delays, as Barclays said it couldnt process the 
payment holiday for Loan 2 until the complaint was resolved. 
On 26 June, Barclays sanctioned a three-month payment holiday on Loan 2 and deferred 
the missed payment. It confirmed that it would treat the account as being up-to-date with 
repayments.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Barclays accepted that it was at fault for Mr Ds difficulties 
in arranging the payment holiday on Loan 2. It confirmed that any information passed to 
credit reference agencies about the matter would automatically be purged in the coming 
weeks. And recognising the poor service and advice given to Mr D during the process, it 
offered him £225 compensation. But Mr D remained unhappy, and referred the matter to us.
While the complaint has been ongoing, the payment holidays on Loan 1 and 2 came to an 
end (in September and October 2020 respectively). While payments by the existing direct 
debit instruction on Loan 1 resumed, the direct debit on Loan 2 failed. So with no payment 
made on that account in October 2020, Barclays wrote to Mr D to say the account was in 
arrears. Mr D made up the missed payment, but was unhappy that the direct debit instruction 
had been cancelled and was concerned at the impact this would have on his credit file. 
One of our investigators reviewed the matter and thought Barclays needed to do more to put 
things right. She thought that further problems had flowed from the banks mistake in 
recalling the payment of 14 April, which had led to the payment holiday on Loan 2 being 
administered by the banks financial assistance team  who in turn had cancelled the direct 
debit instruction. More broadly, she said the bank hadnt fully explained what had happened 
to Mr D and had caused confusion and delay. So she recommended that Barclays increase 
its offer of compensation to £400 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr D  
and ensure that no adverse information was recorded as a result of any of the missed 
payments or arrears that had occurred due to errors on the banks part. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view and confirmed that no arrears had been reported 
on either of Mr Ds loans for the period up to and including January 2021.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He was particularly unhappy that Barclays had 
dismissed his version of events while the matter was ongoing and that it hadnt apologised. 
So he wanted the bank to do so and to confirm in writing that there was no adverse 
information on his credit file for the period in question. He also didnt think that the £400 
compensation was proportionate to the time hed spent on the matter and the stress it had 
caused him. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took Barclays much longer than it should have done to arrange the payment holidays on 
Mr Ds business loans. He requested these in late March but they were only put into place 
some time later  Loan 1 in late April and Loan 2 in late June. I understand that the banks 
usual timeframe for responding to such requests was five working days, which I think 
represents a reasonable turnaround time. And while I accept that the pandemic will have had 
an understandable impact on the level of service that Barclays could provide around the time 
of Mr Ds request, I think the level of service he received here was significantly below the 
level he was entitled to expect.
In addition to taking much longer than should have been necessary, there were also some 
errors in how Loan 2 was administered during the period in question. The delay in putting the 
payment holiday in place meant that a monthly payment was collected in April. In trying to 
assist Mr D, Barclays reversed the payment to return the funds to Mr D. But in doing so, this 
caused further problems down the line. With no payment holiday in place, this was treated 
as a missed payment on Barclays systems  putting the account into arrears and meaning it 
was referred to the banks financial assistance team. These arrears in turn meant that the 
payment holiday request couldnt be approved. And the financial assistance team dealt with 
the payment holiday request and did so in a different way to that on Loan 1  which involved 
cancelling the direct debit instruction, leading to the missed payment when the holiday 
expired in October 2020.
The payment holiday request on Loan 2 was also delayed by the banks initial refusal to 
progress this while Mr Ds complaint was outstanding. I dont think this was reasonable and 
seems to have caused an avoidable delay of around six weeks from 18 May, until the 
complaints team took matters forward in late June.I cant see that Mr D has suffered any financial losses as a result of the problems and delays 
he experienced in setting up the payment holidays. But he was put to some inconvenience 
throughout the period in question. From what he and Barclays have provided us, I can see 
that he had to make a number of calls and send a number of emails to chase things up  
and to rectify things both when the April payment was taken and in light of the arrears 
position created when this was reversed (which included the further missed payment in 
October). I can appreciate that all this would also have added to the stress and uncertainty 
Mr D was feeling during this time  particularly given the possible impact on his credit file, 
and in light of what I understand to have been a previously-unblemished payment record. So 
its right that hes compensated for this. To that end, I think the increased figure of £400 
represents a fair way to put things right.
I know that Mr D doesnt think that £400 is sufficient, and in particular that its not reflective of 
the time hes spent on the matter. We dont generally award compensation based on units of 
time or at a complainants hourly rate. Rather, we consider the overall impact on the 
complainant of the time they spent on the matter. With that in mind, I think that £400 is fair 
compensation in line with the awards we make in circumstances such as those at issue 
here.
Given the shortcomings in the service Barclays provided to Mr D and the impact it had on 
him, I think his request for an apology from the bank is a reasonable one. So Im also 
requiring Barclays to write to Mr D with an apology for what went wrong. I leave it to the bank 
to decide who is best-placed to provide this, although it would seem sensible for this to 
accompany confirmation that the compensation has been paid (should Mr D choose to 
accept this decision).
Lastly, I can understand Mr Ds unease at the possible impact on his credit file. I agree that it 
wouldnt be fair for any missed payments or arrears to have been recorded as a result of the 
matters at issue here. But the bank confirmed in its final response that if any adverse 
information had been recorded, it wouldve been automatically removed. More recently, 
Barclays has confirmed in writing to us that no arrears were reported on either account for 
the period up to and including January 2021  meaning that the October missed payment 
didnt lead to any adverse credit information being registered either. And Mr D hasnt shown 
us any evidence  such as a copy of his credit file  that would lead me to doubt what 
Barclays has said about this. So Im not requiring the bank to do anything further in this 
respect.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr D compensation of 
£400 and write to him with an apology.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman