DRN-3192938
The complaint
Ms K complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly carried out a credit check and that 
led to a mortgage application being declined.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms K discussed taking a joint mortgage with Nationwide. She said that it made 
an application in principle, which was declined. She said that it should not have submitted an 
application in principle as it knew the joint application would be declined  and that 
Nationwide did not give her clear information about the impact on her credit file. 
Ms K said she later made a mortgage application in her sole name through a broker. That 
was declined, she believes because of the credit search carried out by Nationwide.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms K didnt accept what the investigator said. She said her complaint was not that the joint 
application was declined  but rather that the application in principle and resulting mark on 
her credit file should never have been made.
I sent Ms K an email saying, in summary, that Nationwide told us that it did not carry out a 
hard credit search when it made the joint application in principle  only a soft search. 
While that search would not be visible to other lenders, Nationwide would retain a record of 
it. That is why it could see that Ms K had made a joint application when her broker submitted 
an application in her sole name. I couldnt see that Nationwide had made an error or that it 
was unreasonable for it to submit the application in principle in joint names.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K understandably feels that she has lost out because she made an unsuccessful 
application in joint names  and that meant she could not obtain a mortgage with Nationwide 
in her sole name. She considers that application would have been successful but for the joint 
application. But I dont think that Nationwide made an error here or has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
I say that as it was reasonable for Nationwide to make the application in principle joint 
names. Ms K wanted to make that application. I dont think that Nationwide should have 
refused to do that or explored with Ms K or her partner of the consequences for either of 
them individually if that application was declined. It would not have known that Ms K would 
later be recommended a mortgage in her sole name with Nationwide.
Nationwide has shown me that it did not make a hard search on Ms Ks credit file when it 
carried out the joint application in principle. So there was no record of the joint application 
that other lenders could see. It was reasonable and in line with normal industry practice for 
Nationwide to retain a record of the joint application on its systems. And I am satisfied that is 
the reason that Ms Ks application in her sole name was declined. Nationwide has shown 
that was its policy. And I think that was a fair and reasonable decision for it to make.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Ms K but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman