DRN-4301046
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling and 
settlement of a claim they made under their commercial property insurance (landlords) 
policy for damage caused to their let property by an escape of water.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with Avivas handling of 
their claim. After a disagreement about the materials to be used to repair the damage, Aviva 
decided to withdraw its offer to repair the property and instead insisted on a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs D say this caused inconvenience, a loss of rent and resulted in them incurring 
additional financial losses. They also complain that Aviva charged the policy excess twice, 
and that the cash settlement offer isnt sufficient to cover all of the required repairs. Theyre 
seeking an increase to the settlement amount based on a quote theyve supplied, additional 
payments for loss of rent and reimbursement of professional surveyors and damp specialist 
costs. They also want Aviva to apologise for its handling of matters and to compensate them 
and their tenants for the distress and inconvenience caused. And Mr D would like to be 
compensated for the time he has spent dealing with the claim.
Our investigator issued two assessments on this complaint. In her final assessment, she 
said it was Aviva who withdrew the offer to carry out repairs, so any cash settlement should 
be based on the costs available to Mr and Mrs D, not on Avivas discounted supplier rates. 
She said the invoice provided by Mr and Mrs D seemed reasonable so Aviva should meet 
those costs, plus interest from the point they were out of pocket to the point they were 
reimbursed. She also said Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused them.
However, our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to cover the costs Mr and Mrs D 
incurred in appointing surveyors or a damp specialist. She also later clarified that she didnt 
think Aviva needed to cover additional loss of rent either.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators assessment. It said Mr and Mrs Ds quote included 
elements of betterment. It also said that as an insurer it is able to limit the cost of repairs to 
what it would cost its suppliers, and Mr and Mrs Ds costs were far in excess of that. 
However, Aviva did agree to pay the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator, 
as it accepted some service failings.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So, in order to give the 
parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final decision, I issued a provisional 
decision. Heres what I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by 
our investigator. Ill explain why, addressing each issue separately for clarity.
Switch to cash settlement
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Aviva took the decision to withdraw its offer to carry 
out the repair works through one of its suppliers several months into the claim. 
Theyre also unhappy that the subsequent cash settlement offer was based on the 
amount Aviva said its supplier could carry out the repairs for, rather than the amount 
it would cost for them to carry out the repairs privately.
Aviva says that it is entitled to limit the cost of repairs to the amount it would have 
cost for its supplier to do the works. This is based on the following term from the 
policy wording:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we 
cannot replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in 
cash. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, 
but we agree to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the 
amount we would have paid the preferred supplier.
Terms similar to the above are common in property insurance policies. But Aviva 
ought to be aware that our service has a long-standing and well-established 
approach to how such terms can be fairly and reasonably applied in a situation like 
this. That is, that an insurer can only fairly limit its settlement to its suppliers costs if it 
is willing to carry out the works through that supplier, but the policyholder refuses to 
allow the insurers supplier to do those works. Or, where it is reasonable for the 
insurer to refuse for its supplier carrying out the works due to an irretrievable 
breakdown of the relationship with the policyholder  which is due to the 
policyholders unreasonable behaviour.
Aviva says it took the decision to withdraw its contractor and offer a cash settlement 
due to Mr and Mrs Ds approach to a disagreement over certain materials to be used 
during the repair. It says the relationship had effectively broken down and so a cash 
settlement offer was made, limited to its suppliers costs, in line with the terms of the 
policy.
Ive thought carefully about this. And while I appreciate the policy gives Aviva the 
right to decide how to settle the claim, including by offering a cash settlement limited 
to its suppliers costs, Ive not been persuaded that its decision to withdraw the 
contractors at the point it did, and for the reasons it gave, was fair or reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of this claim and complaint. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs D were deliberately 
obstructive or in any way threatening or abusive. Instead, it seems to me that they 
were simply advocating for what they believed they were entitled to under their 
policy. I think its reasonable (and very common) that some negotiation is to be 
expected in claims of this nature. And, from what Ive seen, it seems that several of 
their assertions were eventually accepted as being valid. Ultimately, nothing Ive 
seen has persuaded me that Mr and Mrs Ds behaviour was so unreasonable that it 
was fair for Aviva to completely withdraw its contractors at the point it did. 
As Im not persuaded that Avivas decision to withdraw its contractors, for the 
reasons it gave, was fair or reasonable, it follows that it wouldnt be fair to allow it to 
limit the cash settlement to its supplier costs. Instead, the cash settlement should be 
based on the costs available to Mr and Mrs D. Ill explain what this means for the 
settlement in the next section.
The claim settlement 
Since the complaint was first raised with Aviva, Mr and Mrs D have had the repairs 
completed by their own contractor. Aviva has had sight of the invoices for the works 
carried out and has made the following comments:
The bathroom furniture was not damaged as a result of the claim so it 
didnt require replacement.
The floor tiles were included in the schedule and settlement provided.
The floorboards were included in the schedule and settlement provided.
Making safe the plumbing is included within the enabling for the overall 
project and costs included within the settlement.
The vanity unit was included in the schedule and settlement provided, the 
toilet and wash hand basin were included for removal and refitting.
The woodwork is included in the schedule and settlement provided.
The plumbing appears to include betterment to renew waste pipes, with 
the original refitting of the existing bathroom items, this would not be 
considered necessary as part of the claim or project.
 
The removal of the existing towel radiator is included previously and 
appears to be a duplicate.
Avivas cash settlement is based on a schedule of works drawn up by its loss 
adjuster, based on its supplier costs, covering the claim related damage identified 
during the visual inspection. But Ive already set out above that I dont consider it fair 
for Aviva to limit the settlement to its suppliers costs.
So, in order to put things right, I think Aviva needs to increase the cash settlement so 
that it meets the costs set out in Mr and Mrs Ds invoices for all of the claim related 
repairs. However, it can exclude any works which were not necessary as a result of 
the claim, such as the replacement bathtub, or any bathroom furniture not damaged 
as part of the claim.That said, Mr and Mrs D have explained that they were unable to find any contractors 
who were willing to reuse old pipework when carrying out the repair, and this doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me. So, I do think Aviva needs to meet the cost of the new 
pipework included in Mr and Mrs Ds invoices.
Aviva should calculate the updated cash settlement offer (based on Mr and Mrs Ds 
quotes), and to any additional amount due to Mr and Mrs D it should add 8% simple 
interest from the date it issued the cheque for the cash settlement of £4,768, to the 
date it pays the increased settlement. This is to compensate Mr and Mrs D for being 
deprived of the use of funds I think they were reasonably entitled to under the terms 
of their policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D didnt cash the cheque Aviva initially sent, and so they 
didnt get the benefit of the funds at that time either. But I cant reasonably hold Aviva 
responsible for their decision not to cash the cheque. This is why Im only intending 
to award 8% interest on the difference between Avivas initial settlement payment 
and the new settlement value, rather than on the full value of the new settlement.
Professional costs
Mr and Mrs D have incurred costs in appointing a surveyor and a damp specialist 
during the claim. They say their policy provides cover for this, based on the following 
term:
We will also pay;
fees to architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and legal fees 
which you have to pay with our consent to reinstate the buildings
From what Ive seen, Aviva didnt give consent for Mr and Mrs D to incur those costs 
prior to them being incurred. And given Aviva had already confirmed the claim was 
valid and committed to covering any additional claim related damage which might be 
discovered during the repairs, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude 
that it was necessary for Mr and Mrs D to incur these costs in order to receive a fair 
settlement. So, based on this, Im not intending to direct Aviva to cover these costs.
Loss of rent
Mr and Mrs D wanted Aviva to cover alternative accommodation for their tenant. 
However, the property was not deemed by Aviva to be uninhabitable as a result of 
the damage covered by the claim. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree that 
its position here was reasonable. I say this because the key facilities in both the 
bathroom and the kitchen remained operational.
As part of its cash settlement, Aviva covered one month loss of rent  as this was the 
estimated time the claim related repairs would have taken, and during repairs it 
accepted the property would become uninhabitable. And as it appears 
Mr and Mrs Ds tenant vacated before commencement of any repairs, I think this 
approach seems reasonable.
Since their original complaint was made, Mr and Mrs D have suggested that Aviva 
should cover a further three months loss of rent, because the actual repairs took until 
November 2022 to be completed. They also say that, but for the length of time 
repairs took, due to Avivas handling of things, they could have increased their rent 
during this period. So, they want Aviva to cover this alleged rent shortfall too.Despite these issues not being included in their complaint originally, our investigator 
asked Aviva for its comments on these issues, which it duly provided. So, as Aviva 
has provided a response to these issues, and in the interest of completeness, Ill 
address them as part of my provisional findings.
I appreciate the evidence Mr and Mrs D have provided about the rental values of 
similar properties in their area. But Im not intending to direct Aviva to cover the 
alleged rent shortfall, because Ive seen no evidence that they had an actual tenant 
in place who would have been prepared to pay said increased rent, but for the 
ongoing works. The alleged rent shortfall Mr and Mrs D are seeking to claim for here 
is purely hypothetical and so I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Aviva to cover it.
In terms of the additional time it took for the works to be completed, Aviva has argued 
that Mr and Mrs D took the decision to fully renovate, adding additional time for all 
the works to be completed. Aviva maintains the claim related damage, in isolation, 
could have been completed within one month. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded by the information put forward by 
Mr and Mrs D, that the claim related repairs in isolation would have reasonably taken 
three months to be completed. So, in the absence of additional evidence setting out 
why the repairs took so long, and supporting this was solely the result of claim 
related damage, Im not intending to award any additional loss of rent here.
Financial loss, distress and inconvenience
Mr and Mrs D would like Aviva to pay Mr D a fixed daily rate for the amount of time 
he has spent dealing with the claim. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs D will likely have spent time liaising with Aviva and its 
agents as well as on this subsequent complaint, some disruption and inconvenience 
is to be expected with claims of this nature and wouldnt necessarily be the fault of 
Aviva. Im also mindful that some of the delays in the claim resulted from 
Mr and Mrs D not initially providing evidence to support their disputes over materials, 
and it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for that either.
I should also point out that I havent seen any evidence to support that Mr D lost a 
specific daily amount at any point, due solely to issues caused by Aviva. So, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make an award of this nature.
However, I do agree that there have been some delays and service failings on 
Avivas part in this case, and that Mr and Mrs D will have suffered some distress and 
inconvenience as a result. That doesnt seem to be disputed as Aviva has agreed to 
pay compensation following our investigators assessment.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs D have said about the impact 
Avivas failings have had on them and their tenant. But I must point out that Im 
unable to consider any distress and inconvenience suffered by their tenant as part of 
this complaint, as they arent Avivas customer. So, taking into account the impact to 
Mr and Mrs D only, and considering our services published guidance around awards 
of this nature, I think the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
sufficient to put things right.I said I was intending to direct Aviva to increase the cash settlement so that it meets the 
costs set out in Mr and Mrs Ds invoices for all of the claim related repairs and to add 8% 
simple interest to the additional amount due, from the date it initially cash settled until the 
date of settlement. And I said it should pay £200 compensation.
Aviva confirmed it accepted my provisional findings. It asked for a summary of the settlement 
it needed to pay in order to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D provided a lengthy response and several supporting documents. To 
summarise, they said:
They havent received the compensation recommended by our investigator despite it 
being agreed in 2022.
The claim settlement cheque wasnt issued by Aviva but by the builder.
The work to the bathroom floor is not complete as their builder wouldnt carry it out.
They maintain Aviva should cover their professional costs as it was necessary to 
appoint someone due to the damage and mould on the joists.
Aviva agreed to pay £240 toward damage to kitchen units but it hasnt, and my 
provisional decision didnt cover this.
Aviva decided to withdraw their contractor. They then couldnt find a contractor who 
could start on short notice, or one that wanted to work with insurers involved. They 
had to appoint one who could only work a few days here and there which is why it 
took longer for the works to be completed. They shouldnt be penalised for this, and 
Aviva should pay loss of rent for the duration of the works.
They provided additional context around the impact of Avivas handling of the claim 
and requested I reconsider awarding financial loss and the amount of compensation I 
provisionally awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the responses and additional evidence provided in response 
to my provisional decision. Having done so, my provisional conclusions remain unchanged. 
Ill explain why in more detail, using the same subheadings I used in my provisional decision.
Switch to cash settlement
Many of Mr and Mrs Ds points about the impact this claim has had on them stem from 
Avivas decision to withdraw its contractor and offer a cash settlement. They say they paid a 
deposit to secure the contractor and Avivas decision to withdraw them when it did amounts 
to a breach of contract and has resulted in significant distress, inconvenience and financial 
loss.In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think it was fair for Aviva to withdraw its 
contractor and limit the cash settlement to the equivalent of its own costs. But to be clear, 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy allows Aviva to decide how best to settle the claim, including by 
offering a cash settlement. Theres nothing inherently unfair about it deciding to settle the 
claim in this way. My concern was not with Aviva deciding to cash settle, in isolation, but with 
it doing so and attempting to limit the cash settlement to its suppliers cost.
Even though the policy allows Aviva to decide how to settle the claim, including by offering a 
cash settlement, there are circumstances where our service might decide that doing so 
would be unfair. For example, where the required repair works are particularly substantial or 
complex, such as claims for subsidence damage where the solution requires underpinning. 
But the works required in this case were not substantial or particularly complex in nature. 
Based the above, I dont consider that Avivas decision to switch to a cash settlement, in 
isolation, was unfair, or a breach of contract as Mr and Mrs D have suggested. But it was 
unfair for it to do so and attempt to limit the settlement to its own costs. Avivas decision to 
switch to a cash settlement is only fair providing the cash settlement it pays is based on 
Mr and Mrs Ds costs and not its suppliers costs. And to be clear, the £250 Mr and Mrs D 
paid was the policy excess, not a deposit to guarantee Avivas contractors.
The claim settlement
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that the initial cash settlement was paid by the contractor not 
Aviva. To clarify, the contractors were working as agents of Aviva. As the principal, Aviva is 
responsible for the actions of its agents. So, when Ive referred to actions, evidence or 
arguments put forward by Aviva, this also includes things put forward or actioned by its 
agents. 
Neither side has objected to my provisional finding that Aviva should recalculate the 
settlement for the claim related repairs based on the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs D. So, as 
there are no new arguments here, my conclusion on this point remains the same.
However, Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that Avivas offer to pay £240 toward a damaged 
unit was omitted from my provisional decision. 
Given this doesnt appear to be in dispute, and Aviva has committed to making this payment, 
I see no reason to comment in detail. But I will direct Aviva to make this payment as part of 
my final decision  in line with the offer it has already made.
Mr and Mrs D have also highlighted that the bathroom floor work was not carried out by their 
contractor, and so remains outstanding. They say Avivas schedule of works included for this 
work so it should complete the work or include the cost of it in the cash settlement. They also 
say this will result in the home being uninhabitable for two to three days and so Aviva should 
include alternative accommodation costs for that time.
From Avivas schedule of works, it does seem that the costs for removal and replacement of 
the entire bathroom floor have been included. This means the cost of this work will be 
covered in the cash settlement, so there is nothing further Aviva would need to pay (aside 
from increasing the price of the work to Mr and Mrs Ds costs rather than its suppliers) for the 
actual works. 
In terms of alternative accommodation while that work is carried out, Mr and Mrs Ds policy 
doesnt cover alternative accommodation for tenants, only for the policyholder and their 
family if they live in the property. Where the property isnt lived in by the policyholder, it 
covers loss of rent instead of alternative accommodation costs. So, whether or not the property will become uninhabitable during repairs, there will be no 
cover for alternative accommodation. But if, at the point of repairs, Mr and Mrs D incur a loss 
of rent, they should present evidence of this to Aviva for further consideration. Should they 
remain unhappy with Avivas decision on this, at that point, they may be able to raise a new 
complaint with our service, subject to our normal rules.
In terms of Avivas request for a summary of the award, Ive not forensically reviewed the 
invoices and schedules of work as thats not my role. So, Ill not be setting out specifically 
each and every element of the works which needs to be covered. 
In order to fairly resolve this part of the claim and complaint, Aviva needs to increase the 
amount it paid for all the items it accepts were required as a result of the claim, based on the 
costs incurred by Mr and Mrs D. It should also include the replacement pipework, for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. But it doesnt need to pay for any other items 
which it deems were not damaged as a result of the escape of water.
Professional costs
Mr and Mrs D maintain the costs they incurred for their architects report should be covered. 
They say Aviva refused to remove and replace water damaged joists, and that Avivas 
contractor would be less qualified than an architect, surveyor or damp specialist, in 
diagnosing any potential mould or dry rot issue. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs D have said. But having done so I remain 
of the view that it wouldnt be fair to direct Aviva to cover these costs. I say this because the 
policy only provides such cover where the costs are approved by Aviva in advance  which 
they werent. Aviva also confirmed it would consider any further damage discovered during 
the repairs, and while I accept a contractor doesnt necessarily have the same expertise as 
an architect, surveyor or damp specialist, I think they would be able to identify rotten or 
mouldy joists and report this to Aviva for further investigation. 
I also note that the architects report didnt make a firm finding on the presence of mould or 
rot, rather it suggested further investigation was required. And Im aware that Mr and Mrs Ds 
contractor didnt end up removing or replacing the joists, rather they treated it with some sort 
of repair solution and left it in place. 
Taking all of the above into account, Im still not satisfied that it was necessary for 
Mr and Mrs D to appoint an architect, without Avivas prior approval, in order to receive a fair 
settlement. So, in these circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct Aviva to 
cover those costs. 
Mr and Mrs D have also clarified that their contractor obtained the advice of a damp 
specialist, but not a formal report. They say they assume the costs of this were added to 
their contractors costs  although these arent set out on the invoice.
 
I accept it is possible that the costs of a damp specialist would have been required to confirm 
whether a fungicide solution would be appropriate or whether the joists required 
replacement. But again, Mr and Mrs D didnt obtain Avivas approval before incurring these 
costs. That means by a strict application of the policy terms, Aviva doesnt need to cover 
those costs. However, even if I intended to step outside the policy terms and award these 
costs on a fair and reasonable basis, there is no evidence of any additional costs being 
incurred for this. So, in the circumstances, Im making no award for any damp specialist 
costs either.Loss of rent
Mr and Mrs D have said they remove their request for Aviva to cover their lost opportunity to 
increase their rent. But they maintain Aviva should pay loss of rent for the full length of time 
the works took to complete  between July and November 2022.
As set out in my provisional decision, the evidence Ive seen suggests that one of the main 
reasons the work took so long to complete was because of additional, non-claim related 
repairs Mr and Mrs D decided to complete alongside the claim repairs. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs D have also further clarified that the 
contractor they employed to carry out the repairs was only able to attend on an ad hoc basis, 
further increasing the length of time the repairs took.
As Ive explained, I dont think Avivas decision to offer a cash settlement, in isolation, was 
unfair. So, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs D had difficulties sourcing a contractor, I cant 
reasonably hold Aviva responsible for their choice to pick one who couldnt carry out the 
works in one consistent block. 
Ultimately, I dont think the additional time the works took to complete resulted from 
something Aviva did wrong. So, Im not awarding any additional loss of rent for the period of 
the works.
Mr and Mrs D have also raised additional points about their property not being habitable or 
lettable following the event until the works were completed. Theyve pointed to the potential 
risks posed by mould, rot and exposed insulation wool.
Ive thought about this, but I note that their tenants chose not to vacate the property initially, 
so even if I accepted the property was uninhabitable, which Im not necessarily saying I do, 
there is no loss here as they continued to receive rent until the repairs commenced. And Ive 
already explained above, and in my provisional decision, why I think Avivas decision to only 
cover one month loss of rent, for the reasonable duration of the claim related repairs, was 
fair.
Financial loss, distress and inconvenience
As I explained in my provisional decision, our service doesnt typically make awards for the 
number of days or hours a complainant spent on dealing with their claim or complaint. And 
Mr and Mrs D havent provided any evidence of actual financial loss caused solely by Aviva 
either. In these circumstances, I think its fair to consider everything that happened in the 
round, and consider the impact of the Avivas errors, when deciding on a fair amount of 
compensation. 
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs D for setting out the significant distress and inconvenience this 
claim has caused them, and I sympathise as I can see its been a difficult time for them. 
However, most of the points Mr and Mrs D have highlighted stem from the fact there has 
been an escape of water which they needed to claim for, rather than because of something 
Aviva specifically did wrong. Ive already explained that Aviva was entitled to offer a cash 
settlement, and that I dont think this, in isolation, was unfair. And, as explained, some 
inconvenience is expected in claims of this nature, which Ive had to take into account. 
Ive also had to be mindful that the vast majority of distress and inconvenience in this case 
was suffered by the tenants  and as explained Im unable to make an award for this 
because the tenants arent Avivas customers. I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs D have suffered from distress and inconvenience as a result 
of the errors Aviva has made  which are to unfairly restrict the cash settlement to its 
suppliers costs and some avoidable delays and service issues its solely responsible for. But 
I remain of the view that the £200 set out in my provisional decision is enough to 
compensate for the impact of the particular issues which I can solely attribute to something 
Aviva did wrong. 
I accept that the claim as a whole has caused significant additional disruption and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs D. But that isnt something I think Aviva is solely responsible 
for. So, Im not awarding any additional compensation for distress, inconvenience, or alleged 
financial losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in part.
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
Increase the cash settlement so that it meets the costs set out in Mr and Mrs Ds 
invoices for all of the claim related repairs.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £240 toward the damaged kitchen unit  in line with the offer it has 
already made.
Add 8% simple interest to any additional amount due, from the date Aviva issued the 
initial cash settlement, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman