DRN-1829426
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
handling of their car insurance policy following a claim.
Reference to LV includes their agents.
In bringing their complaint, Mr F has taken the lead. For ease, I shall therefore refer to Mr F 
throughout, although his comments are on behalf of both himself and Mrs F.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Fs car was involved in an accident on 20 February 2019. They claimed on their 
LV policy. LV arranged for the damage to be repaired by one of their approved repairers 
(AR).
Mr F said that as the car had impacted a curb a wheel alignment (or geometry) test was 
necessary. LVs AR was authorised by Mr Fs cars manufacturer to carry out the wheel 
alignment test for that particular make and model of car. And the AR said they would do so 
using the manufacturers specifications. But Mr F said he didnt want that to happen. He said 
he had past experiences with a number of garages that had the manufacturers authorisation 
to carry out wheel alignment tests but they were always inaccurate and the tests were 
outside of the manufacturers tolerances. Mr F said he wanted LV to have the wheel 
alignment test done by a garage using a specific test machine that he knew was accurate.
LVs AR went ahead and did the wheel alignment test and confirmed it was correct and 
within the manufacturers specifications. An engineer also test drove the car and confirmed it 
drove fine and without problems. But Mr F complained the test was outside of the 
manufacturers specified tolerances and said the car pulled to the left. To satisfy Mr F the AR 
had their test machine assessed and calibrated to show it was working properly. The 
calibration test showed it was working correctly.
Mr F later got his own test done which showed the wheel alignment was outside of the 
manufacturers specified tolerances. He brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt that LV had dealt with Mr F fairly. As Mr F didnt think that 
was fair, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr F, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F has made many detailed submissions and Ive considered all of those carefully. But, in 
this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding issues. Im satisfied that the test equipment used by LVs AR was working properly as confirmed by 
the calibration test. Im also satisfied that the AR was authorised and qualified to carry out 
the wheel alignment test in line with the manufacturers specifications for the make and 
model of car. And the wheel alignment test was within the manufacturers accepted 
tolerances. Im also aware that after the test a qualified engineer test drove the car and he 
was satisfied that the car drove satisfactorily and didnt pull to the left as Mr F complained.
After the ARs test Mr F had his own test done which showed the cars wheel alignment was 
outside of the manufacturers tolerances. But I dont think that shows that LVs AR did 
anything wrong. They carried out the test on a working machine to the manufacturers 
specifications. And I havent seen any evidence that the tests Mr F commissioned had been 
conducted to the same standards.
Im aware that after LVs AR did the test Mr F had two of his own tests done. But Mr Fs first 
test showed it was based on an F85 model car whereas Mr Fs car is an F15 model. LV 
therefore said it would appear thats why the target data between LVs test and Mr Fs first 
test didnt correspond. In other words, if the test Mr F had done was based on the wrong 
model of car it would show the results as being different to those of LVs ARs test. The AR 
said the geo[metry] report supplied by [Mr F] is for an F85 and [his] vehicle is an F15 and 
the target data on the [his] report is not what [the manufacturer] supply for an F15, which 
they feel could be a reason the 2 reports dont match.
Mr F then got a second wheel alignment test done based on his correct model of car, an 
F15. And that said the alignment was outside of the manufacturers tolerances. Mr F feels 
this proves that LVs original wheel alignment test was wrong. But I dont agree. For the 
reasons given above, in particular the engineering evidence, I think LVs ARs wheel 
alignment test was within the manufacturers tolerances. So, there might have been an 
intervening event between LVs ARs test and Mr Fs second test which caused the 
misalignment. Also, as I've said above, Im satisfied that the quality of the test LVs ARs did 
was to the manufacturers specifications, and I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
other issues
Mr Fs main complaint was to do with the wheel alignment issue which I have addressed 
above. But sometime later he raised a number of other issues, namely some damage to the 
A pillars and the rear parking sensor. He also said the exhaust was bent. 
LV said the parking sensors were working fine when they returned the car to Mr F. And that 
the damage to the A pillars were stone chips which werent related to the accident or the 
ARs workmanship. But they said they would look into the rear parking sensor issue if Mr F 
obtained his own engineering report showing it was accident related. They would then refer 
that to their own engineer and if satisfied the issue is claim related LV would consider a cash 
settlement.
In relation to the stone chips on the A pillars, LV said they are as a result of general wear 
and tear and not claim related or caused by the AR. But LV said if Mr F were to provide an 
estimate LV would consider a goodwill cash settlement.
I think LVs response to the rear parking sensors and the A pillars is reasonable. Although I 
note that Mr F has also raised concerns about damage to the tail light and exhaust. As these 
issues werent raised initially and LV havent had the opportunity to fully address them, Im 
not going to make any findings about them in this decision. I would simply invite the parties 
to try and resolve those issues but if Mr F remains unhappy, he can make a new complaint 
at which point LV can fully address those concerns and make a decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman