DRN-4167319
The complaint
Mr N is complaining about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a 
claim he made on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N hired a car through a hire car scheme provided by a third party  who I shall refer to as 
M. Under an agreement with M, RSA insures the cars provided through this scheme. Mr Ns 
car was damaged, so in July 2022 he contacted RSA to claim for the damage to the car. The 
car was taken to a garage for repair and M provided Mr N a hire car as a replacement. 
However, it later came to light that Mr N had received a speeding conviction in May 2022 
which meant he had 12 points on his licence. M notified RSA that this meant Mr N wasnt 
eligible for the hire car scheme. Following this, RSA returned the car to M. Mr N then raised 
the following complaints:
RSA returned the insured car to M rather to him.
The temporary hire car he was given was forcibly taken away from him.
RSA wouldnt continue to provide him with insurance.
I issued two provisional decision not upholding this complaint. I initially said the following:
I should first set out that in this decision Im only consider the actions of RSA in its 
performance of the insurance contract. Mr N has also raised concerns about the actions of 
M, but those concerns are being considered in a separate complaint. So I wont comment on 
anything M should or shouldnt have done in this decision.
Mr N is unhappy that RSA wouldnt return the original car M supplied under the hire 
agreement back to him. Ultimately, M was the owner of the car and was leasing it to Mr N 
under the terms of the hire agreement. Once M terminated the hire agreement, Mr N ceased 
to have a contractual right to the car. While I can understand why Mr N asked to have the 
car returned to him, M asked RSA to return the car to it and, as the legal owner of the car, I 
cant say RSAs decision was unfair in this regard.
I note Mr N has also complained that the replacement hire vehicle was forcibly taken away 
from him. But this car was supplied by M under the terms of the contract hire agreement, so 
it wasnt supplied by RSA. As a result, I cant hold RSA responsible for anything that may or 
may not have gone wrong in this respect.
I appreciate Mr Ns strong feelings about whats happened in this case and I recognise the 
significant impact this whole matter has had on him. But I cant say that RSA has treated him 
unfairly in the way its handling his claim. 
RSA responded to my provisional decision to clarify further how the relationship between 
RSA and M worked. It explained that it wasnt willing to provide insurance to Mr N once it 
became aware of his additional points on his licence. And it explained that this meant that 
there was no longer anyone who was able to drive the hired car, which is why M terminated 
the contract hire agreement.
I then said:
Neither party has given any comment about RSAs handling of the claim, so Im not going to 
comment any further on this. However, part of Mr Ns complaint is also regarding the fact 
that RSA wouldnt insure him any longer, which resulted in M terminating his hire agreement. 
In light of RSAs additional comments, Ive thought further about this.
I think it would first be useful to set out how the relationship between RSA, M and Mr N 
works. M provides a hire scheme to certain individuals who qualify for payment allowances 
from the Government. As part of the scheme, RSA provides insurance for all vehicles 
provided through the scheme. But M is the policyholder of the insurance policy and permits 
those who hire a car through the scheme to use the insurance policy.
The terms of the insurance policy are set by RSA. Part of these terms set out the following: 
At the time an application is made to make a person a Driver we will ask a series of 
questions to establish whether or not the person meets the qualification criteria. If a Driver 
does not meet the qualification criteria at any time (either because false information is given 
about the Driver or because his/her circumstances change which means the Driver ceases 
to meet the qualification criteria) then this will have serious consequences for you and the 
DriversIt is therefore important that you make each Driver aware of the significance of the 
qualification criteria and that you ensure that each Driver meets those criteria at all times 
during the term of the Agreement. Please note that you are responsible to us for ensuring 
that Drivers do not give us false information and tell us of any relevant changes to their 
circumstances.
So its a condition of the hire agreement that Mr N must meet the qualification criteria at all 
times. Where the driver ceases to meet the qualification criteria the terms of the policy also 
give RSA the right to remove them as a permitted driver from the scheme.
In this case, RSA became aware that Mr N had received a further speeding conviction which 
meant that he had 12 points on his licence. RSA has provided details to this Service which 
set out the relevant criteria and Im satisfied that the additional points Mr N received meant 
he was no longer eligible.
Taking this into consideration, I cannot say it was unreasonable for RSA to say that it would 
no longer allow Mr N to be a permitted driver under the insurance policy. So I cant say that 
RSA has treated him unfairly.
I note Mr N has also said hes unhappy that M terminated his hire agreement after RSA 
removed him as a permitted driver and hes also unhappy about the way M treated him 
regarding this. But Im unable to consider Ms actions as its not a party to this complaint. 
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr N feels strongly about whats happened, I cant say that 
RSA has treated him unfairly in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to be second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached before. So I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decisions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman