DRN-2788659
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
accounts under two separate account numbers
He says that he took out one account a Select account in order to get an overdraft facility 
and the other account the Gold account in order to get a personal loan.
What happened
Prior to and while this complaint was being looked at, Lloyds made an offer in relation to one 
of these account numbers. This decision will only relate to the Gold account taken out some 
time prior to 2001 on the account number ending 1146. It will not be addressing the other 
account and the offer that Lloyds has made. If Mr F remains unhappy in relation to that other 
offer it would need to be dealt with separately.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint about the remaining account, which was in 
relation to a Gold account taken out prior to 2001. The account number for this account 
ended in 1146. He didnt think that this account had been mis-sold. Mr F disagreed and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Gold account mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr F was given a fair choice to 
take out the Gold packaged bank account.
Lloyds only has records of Mr Fs Gold account going back to September 2001. Mr F recalls 
taking out a loan at the same time that he took out the Gold account and there does seem to 
have been a Gold loan was taken out in 2001. So, I believe that the account was taken out 
around this time.
Mr F say that he thought he had to take out the Gold account in order to get a personal loan. 
But I can see that he already held a number of personal loans prior to him agreeing to the 
Gold account. So, I think that overall he shouldve been aware that he did not have to have a 
Gold account in order to have a personal loan. 
What I think is more likely is that he agreed to a Gold account in order to get a better rate on 
the personal loan that he took out in 2001, which was a benefit at the time.
My understanding is that in 2001, the Gold account cost £8 per month, and one of the other 
benefits it provided was a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with reduced interest rates on 
balances overdrawn by more than that amount (provided the account remained within an 
agreed limit). As such, I think its more likely that Mr F agreed to the account because he 
was attracted to financial benefits the account provided, rather than because he thought he 
had to have the account in order to get a personal loan. I say this because alongside the 
loan that was taken out with a preferential rate, I can see in 2001 (the earliest we have bank 
statements), and indeed for large periods of time after this point, Mr Fs account was 
regularly overdrawn and he was paying considerable amounts of overdraft interest. By 
having the Gold account the amount of interest he was paying was reduced.
I understand the Gold account was recommended to Mr F. This meant that Lloyds had to 
make sure it was a good fit for Mr Fs circumstances. In 2001 the Gold account cost £8 per 
month and provided preferential rates on loans, £100 interest free overdraft facility, and 
reduced interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than that amount - up to the agreed 
limit. It also provided worldwide travel insurance alongside other benefits such as 
commission free travel money, travel accident cover, extended warranty, purchase 
protection and card protection. Mr F has said that he did travel, but he got significantly 
reduced travel insurance cover through his employer, so I accept that this benefit would not 
have been as useful to him as to other people. But overall, I think that he took out the Gold 
account for the loan and overdraft savings, rather than the travel insurance, so I dont think 
this means that Lloyds recommendation that he upgrade to the Gold account was 
unreasonable.
In addition to making sure the account was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr F 
important information about the account. Its not clear what information he was given, and I 
accept that he may not have been given all of the important information about the account. 
But Ive not seen anything about specific that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
I understand that this will be frustrating to Mr F and I accept with the benefit of hindsight the 
account may not have provided value for money. But this does not mean it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have sold it in the first instance and overall I dont think the Gold account was mis-
sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about his Gold account 
on his account ending in 1146.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman