DRN-4058138
The complaint
Mr E complains about Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (AIL) and the cancellation of 
his motor insurance policy. Mr E is unhappy that he is being chased for an outstanding 
amount that he secured following a successful chargeback claim.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr E purchased a motor insurance through AIL, who were acting as the 
broker. The insurance policy itself was underwritten by a separate insurer. Mr E paid an 
initial deposit of £112.31 for the policy, with the remaining premiums to be paid monthly by 
direct debit.
But AIL were unable to verify Mr Es bank details. And they emailed Mr E on both 8 April and 
2 May 2022 asking him to get in touch to clarify this information, or the policy would be 
cancelled. By 12 May, AIL hadnt received contact from Mr E and so, they cancelled the 
policy.
Mr E called AIL the following day to discuss the cancellation. And on this call, AIL agreed to 
waive the £50 administration fee for the cancellation, leaving Mr E with a remaining amount 
of £68.89 to pay. Mr E paid this on the agreement hed then be able to take out a new policy 
with AIL, which he did. But he also raised a complaint about the cancellation itself.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised Mr E may not have 
received the notification emails they sent, but they didnt think they were responsible for this. 
And they thought their offer of waiving the £50 cancellation charge was a fair one. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr E says he didnt receive this response. And so, he processed chargebacks with his bank 
for the initial deposit he paid for the policy and the remaining amount he paid in mid-May. 
This chargeback was successful and so, AIL were debited a total amount of £181.20, which 
AIL looked to recoup from Mr E via a debt collection agency. Mr E was made aware of this in 
October 2022 and AIL provided Mr E with a copy of their final response letter sent in May 
2022 at this time. Mr E remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt dispute Mr Es 
testimony that Mr E didnt receive the cancellation notification emails. But our investigator 
explained they had seen system notes which satisfied them the emails were sent by AIL to 
the correct email address. So, he didnt think he could say AIL had done anything wrong. 
And our investigator thought the charges applied when cancelling the policy were fair. So, as 
these charges remained outstanding due to the chargeback, our investigator didnt think AIL 
were unfair to chase Mr E for payment.
Mr E didnt agree. And he maintained his belief that the emails hadnt been sent and he 
referred to a similar situation occurring on his second policy, although this second policy was 
reinstated without charge. Mr E expressed his desire for our service to contact the email 
network to confirm whether or not the emails were sent, but our investigator explained this 
isnt something our service would look to do. Mr E remained unhappy and so, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr E. I dont dispute Mr Es 
testimony that he didnt have sight of the emails sent to him regarding the potential 
cancellation of the policy. And, considering Mr Es actions after he realised the policy had 
been cancelled, I think its most likely Mr E wouldve confirmed his bank details to avoid the 
policy cancellation if he felt hed had reasonable chance to do so. So, because of this, I can 
understand why Mr E would feel as though the cancellation charges were unfair and decide 
to seek a refund of these through the chargeback process, especially considering his belief a 
response to his complaint hadnt been provided. And so, I can understand why Mr E is now 
unhappy that these fees are being chased by AIL through a debt collector.
But for me to say AIL should waive the outstanding fees, I first need to be satisfied they have 
done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied AIL acted unfairly when cancelling the 
policy initially, for example by not providing sufficient notification beforehand. Or if I think 
they did act fairly at this point, that its unfair for them to seek payment of these fees some 
months later. And in this situation, I dont think I can say thats the case.
I note AILs final response to Mr E was dated, and sent by email, in May 2022. But Mr E says 
this wasnt received until October 2022, when it was re-sent. I recognise in usual 
circumstances; Mr E would have six months to bring his complaint to our service from the 
date AIL issued their response. In this situation, Mr E didnt contact our service until January 
2023. 
But I think its clear there is a dispute around when Mr E received this response. And I note 
AIL have engaged with our service, providing substantial amounts of information without 
making any reference to the timescale Mr E had to contact our service. So, Im satisfied AIL 
have consented to our service considering the complaint and I think its fair for me to 
proceed on this occasion.
Ive first thought about the initial policy cancellation and the main area of dispute, which 
centres around the notification emails AIL say were sent. I can see screenshots of AILs 
system that notification emails were sent to Mr E on both 8 April and 2 May 2022. And I can 
see both emails contained attachments, which were letters explaining why AIL needed Mr E 
to contact them and crucially, what would happen if he didnt.
But I recognise Mr E says he didnt receive these emails, and Ive seen screenshots of his 
own email inbox which shows several emails from AIL, but not these emails in question. So, 
I dont dispute this testimony.
Im unable to speculate as to why these emails werent received, nor is it our services role to 
conduct a technical investigation into why this may have been. But I have thought about the 
actions AIL have taken here, considering whether they were fair and reasonable and 
whether any mistake was made.In this situation, based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied the emails were sent to 
Mr E, using the email address AIL held. And I think this is all AIL were able to control. From 
what I can see, I think its most likely an issue has occurred once the emails were sent, 
meaning they werent received into Mr Es inbox. But I dont think I have any evidence that 
suggests to me this was the fault of AIL, or that they couldve done something else to 
prevent this from happening. Ive seen no evidence from the system notes to suggest the 
emails werent delivered or that they were returned back to them. And I can see other emails 
sent to Mr E through the same method were received as Id expect.
So, as I think the emails were sent, and AIL had no way of knowing these hadnt been 
delivered to Mr E, I dont think I can say AIL acted unfairly when proceeding to cancel the 
policy, as Mr E hadnt contacted them within the time limits set in the notification documents. 
But I do appreciate the issue with the email receipt isnt the fault of Mr Es either. And Ive 
seen when discussing the remaining balance needing to be paid to allow another policy to 
be set up, AIL waived their own £50 cancellation fee which I think was a fair offer to 
recognise this.
This meant that Mr E was only expected to pay the non-refundable policy set up fee, as well 
as the amount he owed for the time he was insured by the policy. And I think both fees were 
fair for AIL to charge, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I can see Mr E did pay the fee needed to cover both costs. But I can see following this, he 
chose to raise a chargeback claim to recoup these costs. As this claim was successful, AIL 
were left without the £181.20.
Mr E doesnt think its fair that AIL has then chosen to seek repayment of these fees. But 
crucially, I dont agree. Its not in dispute that AIL did set up the policy for Mr E in their role as 
the broker. So, I think the policy set up fee should be applicable. And due to the policy being 
set up by AIL, Mr E received insurance for his car for a period of time and Id expect Mr E to 
pay for this period. If not, hed have received an insurance policy free of charge and this isnt 
something Id expect AIL to agree to.
So, on this occasion, I dont think I can say AIL have acted unfairly when seeking to recoup 
this amount from Mr E. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for. And I recognise Mr E has 
referenced issues relating to his second follow on policy, which he thinks shows the emails 
relating to this first policy werent sent. But crucially, the policies were taken out separately 
and so, are separate products. And when Mr E raised his complaint with AIL, there had been 
no issues with the second policy. Its my understanding this issue originated due to 
additional chargebacks being processed by his bank, which AIL resolved with Mr E directly. 
So, I dont think the issues with the second policy relate directly to the complaint and the 
events Ive considered within this decision.
I also note Mr Es unhappiness with what he feels was AILs failure to respond to his 
complaint. And hes explained this is why he raised a chargeback. But Ive seen evidence 
that suggests to me a response was sent to Mr E by email in May 2022. And even if this 
wasnt received, I wouldve expected Mr E to chase a response, as I think it was reasonably 
clear AIL were investigating his concerns. I think it was Mr Es decision to process a 
chargeback claim instead, and it was his banks decision to uphold this claim. The upholding 
of his chargeback claim is an entirely separate process and not one that has impacted the 
decision Ive reached. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Atlanta Insurance 
Intermediaries Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman