DRN-4220741
The complaint
Mr S, who is visually impaired, is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont allow him to make
monetary transfers of over £1,000 in branch without a passport or a driving license.
What happened
Mr S went into a HSBC branch to instruct transfers from his account. But HSBC wouldnt
allow him to instruct the transfers as he wanted. This was because, for transfers over
£1,000, as Mr S wanted to make, HSBC required presentation of photo ID in the form of
either a passport or a driving license. Mr S wasnt happy about this as his passport had
expired and renewing it is difficult, because of his visual impairment, and he isnt allowed to
hold a driving license, again because of his visual impairment. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr Ss complaint and explained that the requirement for photo ID was a
security policy designed to prevent fraudulent activity and that as such they didnt feel theyd
acted unfairly towards Mr S by applying that policy to his requests. Mr S wasnt satisfied with
HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 June 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the circumstances and 
factors of a complaint into consideration.
I highlight the above in part because Mr S has said he feels that HSBC have 
discriminated against him because of his visual impairment. I cant declare that 
HSBC have or havent discriminated against Mr S in breach of the Equality Act 2010 
 this would be a matter for a Court of Law to decide. But I can take a position as to 
whether I feel HSBC have treated Mr S fairly, in consideration of all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
And, upon consideration of this complaint, I dont feel that HSBC have treated Mr S 
fairly in this instance. I say this because, in situations such as this, I feel that theres 
an onus on HSBC to have made reasonable adjustments and to find alternative 
arrangements for Mr S  which I dont feel that HSBC have reasonably attempted to 
do.
This isnt to say that HSBC should be expected to change its processes company 
wide here. But it is to say that Ive considered the legal and regulatory requirements 
incumbent on HSBC to make reasonable adjustments for customers with 
impairments such as Mr S. These requirements seem fair to me, and so I would 
expect HSBC to make reasonable efforts to accommodate Mr Ss needs here, which 
at present I dont feel that theyve done.
HSBC have explained that branch staff do have the discretion to process payments 
of over £1,000 without the need for photo ID where the account holder in question is 
known to them. But Mr S maintains that he is personally known to HSBCs staff in the 
branch he visits, and so I asked HSBC to ask their staff in that branch why they 
werent willing to use their discretion in Mr Ss specific case.
HSBC responded by explaining that the branch staff had been questioned and that 
all were aware that they could use their discretion if a customer is known to them. 
HSBC also explained that branch staff will only decline to make a payment over 
£1,000 if they dont know the customer and if the customer doesnt have 
identification.
But this doesnt answer the question as I asked it to HSBC  which was for HSBC to 
ask the staff of the branch in question why they werent willing to use the discretion 
available to them in Mr Ss specific case. And I find Mr Ss claim that he is known to 
the staff in that branch  because of the frequency of his visits to that branch, his 
recognisability, and his need to interact with branch staff when in branch  to be 
persuasive.
Even accepting that it was reasonable for HSBCs branch staff to have not used their
discretion in Mr Ss case, I dont feel that HSBC have made reasonable adjustments 
for Mr S, as I feel would be fair. And I also find it difficult to understand what exact 
risk in Mr Ss specific case HSBC is seeking to mitigate against not allowing him to 
verify his identity in an alternative way here.
HSBC may counter that Mr S could instruct transfers via telephone banking or could 
instruct transfers of less than £1,000. But I can understand why Mr S, as a person 
with visual impairment, would want to complete transfers in branch, with the 
assistance of branch staff, and I dont see why he should be denied this option or the 
option to make transfers of the amounts that he wants because of his visual 
impairment and because of HSBCs apparent refusal to make reasonable 
adjustments for it.
As such, my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss 
favour and instructing HSBC to make reasonable adjustments to allow him to make 
transfers in branch as he would like without the need to present photo ID that he 
doesnt possess.
Ive asked HSBC what reasonable adjustments they could potentially make, to which 
HSBC explained that they could use a non-photo form of identification that would be 
acceptable for account opening identify verification, such as a pension letter, for 
identification purposes  but that Mr S would need to bring this form of non-photo ID with him every time he visited branch. This seems reasonable to me, and so my 
provision instructions will include that HSBC must make reasonable adjustments in 
line with this suggestion and in discussion with Mr S.
Finally, Mr S has explained to this service how HSBCs refusal to complete his 
requested transactions based on his not having photo-ID he doesnt possess has 
been upsetting to him  given his visual impairment as previously explained  and 
how hes been unnecessarily inconvenienced by being unable to use his account as 
he would like to and in having to travel to HSBCs branches without a satisfactory 
resolution.
I can appreciate Mr Ss position here, and I feel that he has incurred both 
inconvenience and upset that he reasonably shouldnt have incurred. And so, my 
provisional instructions will also include that HSBC must make a payment of £300 to 
Mr S to compensate him for the trouble and upset that hes experienced here.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision and explained that he felt one aspect of his 
complaint hadnt been considered. Specifically, that HSBC hadnt accepted that a complaint 
could be made on what HSBC deemed to be a matter of policy.
I apologise if Mr S feels that I didnt fully consider his complaint. However, I can confirm that 
this aspect of Mr Ss complaint isnt something that its within my remit to consider. This is 
because, as explained in my provisional decision letter, this service isnt a regulatory body, 
and it also isnt within the remit of this service to consider how a complaint thats been made 
about how a business has handled a complaint.
Mr S has also explained that he would like HSBC to be compelled to change their policies 
regarding the issues about which he complains. But again, given that this service isnt a 
regulatory body, Mr Ss request in this regard is beyond the scope of what Im able to 
consider. To confirm, the remit of this service is very much focussed on the specific events 
of Mr Ss complaint and the impact of these evets on Mr S himself. And it isnt in 
consideration of any wider scope beyond this.
Mr S finished by confirmed that hes happy that my provisional decision found in his favour 
but feels the £300 compensation amount I provisionally instructed for the trouble and 
embarrassment he incurred here is somewhat low. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. The £300 compensation amount I arrived at in 
my provisional decision is in consideration of the events about which Mr M complains and 
which I feel were unfair, and the impact of those events on Mr S as hed described it. And its 
also in consideration of the general framework which this service refers to when determining 
compensation amounts for distress and inconvenience  further details of which can be 
found on this services website. And, while I appreciate that Mr S may not agree, upon re-
consideration of these points, I continue to feel that £300 is a fair compensation amount.
Finally, HSBC also responded to my provisional decision and said that they were happy to 
accept it. HSBC confirmed that theyd already instructed the relevant branch to accept 
certain non-photo ID for Mr S. However, as per my provisional decision letter, my instruction 
here will be that HSBC must make reasonable adjustments in discussion with Mr S himself, 
to ensure that Mr S reasonably has access to the documents HSBC are now happy to 
accept, and so I encourage HSBC to contact Mr S about this matter accordingly.
All of which means I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Ss favour on the basis 
as described in my provisional decision letter above. And I confirm that I do uphold this 
complaint on that basis accordingly.Putting things right
HSBC must make reasonable adjustments in discussion with Mr S to allow him to present 
non-photo ID verification documents when in branch.
HSBC must also make a payment of £300 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman