DRN-4172351
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Amber Homeloans Limited (AHL) treated her unfairly by overcharging 
her on her mortgage.
What happened
In February 2004, Mrs J and the late Mr J took out a mortgage with GMAC. The mortgage 
was transferred to AHL in June 2004 and it is responsible for dealing with the complaint. 
AHL has told us that, from 2005 onwards, it has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Skipton 
Building Society and that it ceased new lending in 2008. AHL has also told us that it adopted 
its own Standard Variable Rate (SVR) which was standalone and distinct from the other 
SVRs offered by Skipton.
The mortgage offer confirmed an initial rate of 4.49%, being GMACs then SVR less a 
discount of 1.25%. The offer stated that the discounted rate would apply to the mortgage 
until January 2006, after which the SVR would apply.
AHL has told us that since Mrs Js mortgage was taken out, the BoEBR and the SVR 
applying to her mortgage have operated as follows:
Date BoEBR SVR Margin
10/02/2004 4% 4.49% 0.49%
01/03/2004 4% 4.74% 0.74%
01/06/2004 4.50% 4.99% 0.49%
01/07/2004 4.50% 5.24% 0.74%
01/09/2004 4.75% 5.49% 0.74%
01/09/2005 4.50% 5.24% 0.74%
01/01/2006 4.50% 6.49% 1.99%
01/09/2006 4.75% 6.74% 1.99%
01/12/2006 5% 6.99% 1.99%
01/02/2007 5.25% 7.24% 1.99%
01/06/2007 5.50% 7.49% 1.99%
01/08/2007 5.75% 7.74% 1.99%
01/01/2008 5.75% 7.49% 1.74%
01/03/2008 5.25% 7.24% 1.99%
01/05/2008 5% 6.99% 1.99%
01/12/2008 3% 4.99% 1.99%
01/01/2009 2% 3.99% 1.99%
01/02/2009 1.50% 3.49% 1.99%
07/03/2009 1% 3.49% 2.49%
01/04/2009 0.50% 3.49% 2.99%
01/03/2010 0.50% 4.95% 4.45%
01/09/2016 0.25% 4.70% 4.45%
01/09/2018 0.75% 4.95% 4.20%
01/05/2020 0.10% 4.60% 4.50%
01/08/2021 1.74%
In October 2020, Mrs Js representative sent a letter of complaint to AHL on Mrs Js behalf. 
The letter set out that Mrs J sought to claim damages in relation to being overcharged 
interest on her outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest rates and any 
variations in the interest rates charged by AHL.
The letter set out that Mrs J considers that the mortgage offer issued in 2004 contained 
unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
(UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mrs Js representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mrs J was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate (BoEBR), rather 
than at AHLs discretion.
Mrs J does not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which defined 
the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Mrs J, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that AHL could 
vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The failure to 
do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for the 
purposes of UTCCR such that AHL is unable to rely on it.
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair.
The term lacks transparency and Mrs J did not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging her mortgage and switching to another lender.
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to Mrs 
Js mortgage balance rather than AHLs SVR.
AHLs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mrs J seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest she paid on her 
mortgage and the amount she would have paid had it been subject to what she 
deems to be a reasonable rate.
AHL responded to the letter of complaint, disagreeing with Mrs Js allegations. In summary,
AHL said:
The mortgage offer explained that an initial discounted rate would be charged, 
followed by the SVR, which was defined in the mortgage terms and conditions and 
formed part of the mortgage contract.The terms and conditions governing interest variation were clear and transparent.
Since January 2006 no ERC has been payable and Mrs J was free to explore moving 
to another lender.
There was no basis for imposing an alternative unspecified alleged reasonable rate.
Mrs Js representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator issued an initial assessment covering both this Services jurisdiction to consider 
the matter and their thoughts on the merits of the complaint that we could look at. In 
summary, they said that:
They could consider the interest charged in the six years leading up to the letter of 
complaint.
They couldnt consider the interest charged before then, because Mrs J ought 
reasonably to have known she had caused for complaint more than three years 
before the complaint was raised.
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charged within the six years leading 
up to the complaint, they would need to take account of previous variations, since 
such variations may have influenced the amount of interest charged in the period 
they could consider.
When considering the interest variation terms, the law relating to unfair terms in 
consumer contracts was relevant. They thought it possible that a court might 
conclude that parts of the variation clause are overly broad and could be more 
transparent. They also thought that there werent any significant barriers preventing 
Mrs J from exiting the contract.
It was necessary to think more broadly about whether the way AHL had used the 
interest variation terms, had resulted in Mrs J being treated unfairly. Having done 
that, they didnt think Mrs J had been treated unfairly.
Mrs Js representative responded to say that Mrs J was very disappointed in the outcome
and wanted the matter escalated to an Ombudsman. Neither Mrs J nor her representative 
provided any reasons as to why they disagreed with the investigators findings.
I issued a Provisional Decision in May 2023. In it, I said:
.before addressing the merits of this complaint, I will first deal with the issue of what I am
able to consider.
Im satisfied I have the jurisdiction to consider the complaint about interest charged from
October 2014 at least, because this interest was charged within six years of the letter of
complaint. In terms of whether the interest charged before October 2014 is within my
jurisdiction, the relevant rule, is as follows:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the
complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the
complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint 
where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R. have expired.
The key question therefore is whether Mrs J made her complaint within three years of when
she was aware (or ought reasonably aware) that she had cause for complaint.
I dont think Mrs J did bring her complaint within three years of when she ought reasonably
to have been aware she had cause for complaint. I say this because in the letter of 
complaint, Mrs Js representative says that she was misled into believing that the SVR
would vary in accordance with the BoEBR, rather than at the lenders discretion.
When Mrs J agreed to the mortgage initially in 2004, the SVR was 1.99% higher than base 
rate. By March 2010, the SVR was 4.45% higher than base rate.
Given that when making their complaint Mrs Js representative has said that she was led to
believe at outset that the SVR would track movements in the base rate, I consider that by
March 2010 at the latest, Mrs J would reasonably have been aware that this hadnt
happened and that she had cause for complaint.
Mrs J didnt raise a complaint about this until much later  more than three years from that
point. As a result, Im satisfied the complaint about the interest rates charged before
October 2014 has been made out of time. And for the same reasons, Im satisfied any
complaint about how the information provided to Mrs J at outset was misleading (in respect
of how the mortgage would operate in terms of the movement of the SVR) would also be
out of time.
Ive not been provided with any information to suggest that the reason part of Mrs Js
complaint was not brought in time was a result of exceptional circumstances.
What Ive provisionally decided bout the merits of the complaint  and why
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will
be disappointing for Mrs J. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help her to
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Mrs Js representative has raised many individual complaint points both to AHL directly and
to this service. However, I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mrs J had an expectation that her mortgage would track the BoEBR once it reverted 
to the variable rate. As it did not do so, AHL has treated her unfairly.
AHL has not varied its SVR fairly or in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
And the terms that set out how the SVR may be varied are unfair. This has resulted 
in Mrs J paying a higher rate of interest on her mortgage balance than she should 
have.
Was AHL under a contractual obligation to charge Mrs J an interest rate that tracked the
BoEBR?
As I set out above, any complaint points relating to what Mrs J was told or led to believe at
the point of sale in 2004 are out of time. But I can consider whether AHL was under a
contractual obligation to charge an interest rate that tracked the BoEBR.
Having reviewed the mortgage documentation that makes up Mrs Js mortgage contract, I 
am satisfied the mortgage is not a tracker mortgage and AHL was not under a contractual
obligation to ensure the SVR charged to Mrs J tracked the BoEBR. I am aware Mrs Js
representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and conditions were not included
in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the mortgage contract.
I disagree with this conclusion. AHL was not required to set out all the terms and conditions
governing its mortgage in one document. While I appreciate this means Mrs J would need to
read more than one document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed her
mortgage, given this was a substantial liability, secured on her principle asset, I think Mrs J
ought reasonably to be treated as if they she had read all of the information provided.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mrs Js complaint.
The fairness of the interest rate terms
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms
themselves:
The Offer Schedule sets out details of the mortgages, including the type of mortgage and the
amount being borrowed. At the bottom of the page, it says This offer Incorporates the
Standard Offer Conditions, Mortgage Conditions and attached Special Conditions (if any).
Section 8 of the Special Conditions, states:
The interest rate applicable to this Offer of Advance is our standard variable rate which will
be discounted by 1.25% until 01/01/2006. The interest rate detailed on the Offer Schedule
Letter has been calculated to include the 1.25% discount applicable to this offer of advance.
From and including 01/01/2006 your mortgage will revert to our standard variable interest
rate applicable at the time. You will be advised when changes are due to your monthly
mortgage payments.Within the Mortgage Conditions 2004 document, standard variable rate is defined as:
means our standard variable rate of interest which can be changed by us at any time before
and after completion under condition 3 of section 3. If we enter into a transfer, the standard
variable rate will be set by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferee can set the standard
variable rate independently of any rate set by GMAC-RFC Limited or any other transferee
Condition 3 of section 3 of the same document sets out:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the
following reasons:
(a) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur,
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur,
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur,
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar
body.
3.2 We will give you notice of any change in the standard variable rate in one of the ways set 
out in section 7. Any change will take effect on the date set out in the notice. This cannot be 
earlier than the date the notice is given. If we do not set out in the notice any date on which 
the change is to take effect, the change will take effect on the date the notice is given. 
Section 7 deals with when notices are given.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category
of relevant law. The way the UTCCRs apply to the relevant terms of Mrs Js mortgage
contract is ultimately a matter for the courts. But they are a relevant consideration I must
take into account when determining what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of
this case.
The crux of this is whether any of the terms, contrary to the requirements of good faith,
cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract,
to the detriment of the consumer. As part of this, relevant considerations are:
The extent to which the terms are sufficiently clear and transparent.
The extent to which there were any barriers to Mrs J being unable to exit the 
contract.
At a general level, interest variation clauses such as those that applied to Mrs Js mortgage
have a legitimate purpose and are common in financial services consumer contracts.
Particularly those of long or indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair
variation term can benefit both consumers and lenders, by providing flexibility and a wider
choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing
they can vary the interest rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly
in their own cost of funding.A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by nature difficult to foresee.
When considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to note that
there was no ERC applicable to Mrs Js mortgage at the point it reverted to the SVR on
1 January 2006. So, if AHL had exercised its rights as set by the variation terms, and Mrs J
was unhappy with that decision, she was free under the contract to transfer her mortgage to
another lender should she have wished without having to pay this charge.
While Mrs Js representative has said that other costs impacted on Mrs Js ability to redeem
her mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these represent significant
barriers when determining whether a variation clause is unfair. Mrs J would incur these costs
if ever she sought to switch lender.
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere.
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mrs Js agreement go further than reasonably
necessary to protect AHLs legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are
sufficiently transparent. Having done so, and while overall I am satisfied with the fairness of
the variation clause, I accept that there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts
of the clause are overly broad and that it could be more transparent.
However, whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is
whether there has been any unfairness to Mrs J from October 2014 onwards. The
fairness of the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment
for Mrs J. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold
this case.
Has AHL exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the
fairness of interest charged to Mrs Js mortgage since October 2014. All interest charging 
events before that are out of time because Mrs J did not refer her complaint in time.
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mrs J was charged during the
period that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to the SVR charged
on Mrs Js mortgage, since the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the
result not only of decisions AHL made during that period, but also the result of decisions it
made prior to it.
Im satisfied that each time AHL made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at
that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the
level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from October 2014 is
the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the fairness or 
lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR charged from 
October 2014.
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after October 2014, andhaving considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything AHL has 
done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from October 2014 onwards.
AHL has provided us with evidence about its decision making in relation to the setting of its
SVR. For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence AHL
has been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mrs J. Our rules allow me to accept
information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I consider it
appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the information and
evidence AHL has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in the
decision.
Having said that, in the period prior to March 2010, the information supplied to me by AHL is
in relation to its own SVR, rather than the SVR that applied to Mrs Js mortgage (which
originated as a GMAC mortgage).
Between the mortgage starting and March 2009, the SVR effectively acted as a BoEBR
tracker. During the initial discounted period, the rate applying to the mortgage was generally
0.74% above BoEBR. After the initial discounted period ended, the rate charged was
consistently 1.99% above BoEBR.
In the period 2007 to 2009, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant
change as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of
businesses, including AHL, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest
rates charged across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the
subject of analysis by both the Bank of England and the FCA since.
Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the cost to lenders of funding
their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These were made up of
several factors and that are not directly linked to BoEBR.
Despite this, the margin between BoEBR and the rate charged on Mrs Js mortgage stayed
constant until March 2009. This is likely to have been due to some kind of restrictive
covenant relating to the transfer of Mrs Js mortgage from GMAC to AHL. This means that
the rate charged on Mrs Js mortgage up to March 2009 was low in the context of other rates
available.
After March 2009, the margin increased from 1.99% to 4.45% in March 2010. The increased
margin happened as a result of the rate charged on Mrs Js mortgage being held at 3.49%
until April 2009 (i.e. with no variation to the interest charged) before the rate was increased
to 4.95% in March 2010. After this point, the SVR charged on Mrs Js mortgage was in line
with the rate being charged on AHLs own SVR loans and the Skipton Building Society SVR.
AHLs publicly available accounts show that between 2007 and 2010 it was experiencing
financial challenges in line with the broader mortgage market. After making a much smaller
profit in 2007 than in previous years, it made consecutive losses in 2008 and 2009, with the
accounts referencing increased funding costs and the costs associated with sustaining
higher levels of arrears and possessions.
One of the interest variation terms (3.1b) allowed interest variations due to a change in the
cost of funds used for mortgage lending.
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to
suggest the changes AHL made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence
Ive seen satisfies me that AHL acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its
obligation to treat Mrs J fairly. And Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the evidence AHLhas been able to provide for this period is corroborated by evidence of wider market
conditions at the time.
Following the change in 2010, Mrs Js SVR tracked the limited movements in the BoEBR
until September 2018, when the margin reduced from 4.45% to 4.2%, after AHL didnt pass
on all of the 0.5% increase in the BoEBR. The margin then went to 4.5% in May 2020, after
AHL only passed on some of the reduction in the BoEBR at that time.
AHL has referenced the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID pandemic and its
decision not to pass on all of the reduction in the BoEBR at that time was reflected in
decisions taken by many other lenders.
In conclusion, even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were unfair pursuant to
UTCCR, I am not persuaded that AHL operated them in an unfair manner when setting and
varying the interest rate that applied to Mrs Js mortgage.
That being the case, I dont think there is any basis to say that those variations somehow
contributed to Mrs J being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgage during
the period I can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest she was
charged during that period was unfair for any other reason.
For the same reason, I dont consider that AHL breached any of the regulations that Mrs Js
representative said that it did.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 23 June 2023. Both 
Mrs J and AHL confirmed they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party as provided any further evidence and/or arguments for me to take into 
account, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my Provisional Decision 
(which form part of this Final Decision). 
For the reasons given in my Provisional Decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint about Amber Homeloans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman