DRN-3935810
The complaint
Miss M complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a car insurance 
claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Miss M has been represented in making this complaint by a family member. For ease of 
reference, Ill refer to any comments from either of them as coming from Miss M.
Miss M has car insurance with Haven. She made a claim in late August 2022 after another 
driver reversed into her car. All parties accept that Miss M was not in any way at fault for the 
accident.
Miss M chose to take her damaged car to her preferred garage rather than to a repairer 
approved by Haven. Once the damage was inspected, the car was written off as beyond 
economical repair.
Miss M wasnt happy with Havens valuation of the car. She also says she and/or her 
representative were misled when they called Haven about the claim. They were given 
conflicting messages about how the claim would be handled, what excess would be payable 
and whether a childs car seat would be covered.
Miss M was also unhappy that Haven wouldnt pay for paint protection shed recently had 
applied to the car, at a cost of around £400. She also wanted a refund of her premiums for 
the time after the accident.
She was also disappointed that Haven said they wouldnt pay for Miss Ms storage of the car 
after theyd asked their salvage provider to pick it up, even though the valuation hadnt yet 
been agreed at that point. 
Miss M made a complaint to Haven, but they maintained that the claim had been handled 
correctly. So, Miss M brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Haven hadnt provided a good service to Miss M. 
She said the car valuation had now been corrected and the paint protection wasnt covered, 
but Haven had provided misleading information at times and had failed to update Miss M 
appropriately or respond to her queries in a timely manner. And she concluded Haven 
should pay Miss M £150 for her trouble and upset.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Havens original valuation of the car was wrong. Havens claim 
notes say as much. And from that point, it was only Miss Ms pushing that made Haven re-
consider and put an appropriate valuation on the vehicle.
Miss M (or her representative) were also given misleading and/or confusing information at 
times when they rang Haven to discuss the claim. For example - and this is not an 
exhaustive list  they were told the car seat wasnt covered, they were told different 
excesses applied, and it appears Haven werent entirely clear about the consequences of 
Miss M using her own preferred repairer.
I can see why this must have been frustrating for Miss M and it certainly put her to the 
inconvenience of having to contact Haven several times to find out with any certainty what 
was going on.
I also understand Miss Ms frustration about the cost of the paint protection. However, her 
insurance policy indemnified her by providing the value of her car when it was written off. 
And that value would not be affected by the application of paint protection to the car. So, I 
cant say that Haven should have covered that cost.
I hope Miss M will also understand that she took out annual insurance - against insured 
events which might happen within a full year. If an insured event happens within the first 
month or so, that doesnt entitle you to a refund for the remaining time on the policy. In 
effect, youve had full value out of the policy - and the annual premium  in making the claim.
I also understand that Haven allowed Miss M the opportunity to continue the policy to cover 
a new car.
In terms of the excess, if that hasnt already been refunded, Miss M can reclaim that through 
the third party insurer.
I can see there was some confusion about the car being picked up by the salvager. Haven 
seemingly arranged this without consulting Miss M. She then thought that giving up the car 
committed her to the earlier, lower valuation. 
This was however cleared up and once Haven had made it clear that the car couldnt be 
disposed of until Miss M had signed over ownership, it was reasonable for Haven to say that 
they wouldnt cover any costs Miss M incurred in storing the car elsewhere.
In short, having corrected the valuation, Haven appear to have brought this claim to the right 
 and fair - conclusion. They did so within a reasonable amount of time. Miss M brought her 
complaint to us within a month of the accident having occurred, so there were no great 
delays in reaching that point.
Putting things right
As Ive said, the service Haven provided to Miss M in that period was poor and led to 
confusion, frustration and inconvenience for Miss M.
Im satisfied that £150 compensation for Miss Ms trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. She had to chase Haven on a number of occasions to understand 
what was happening with the claim. And Haven failed to update Miss M when they should 
have  for example, about the car being picked up by the salvage company.Miss M wants us to award higher compensation, but I think £150 is fair. I take into account 
the short period of time in which there was confusion about the valuation of the car, the fact 
that any misleading information about other aspects of the claim was reasonably soon 
corrected and the fact that the overall outcome  arrived at in relatively short space of time  
is fair and reasonable.
As our investigator already did, I would also refer Miss M to our website, where we set out 
how we approach compensation awards. We make it clear there that awards between £100 
and £300 are appropriate where there has been an impact on the customer thats more than 
just minimal, requires reasonable effort to sort out and causes some distress or 
inconvenience over days or weeks.
Im satisfied thats exactly the kind of trouble and upset that Miss M suffered in this case and 
the compensation suggested by our investigator is within that reasonable range.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay Miss M £150 in compensation for her trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman