DRN-3201050
The complaint
Mr T says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as GeorgeBanco.com, did not respond 
correctly when he notified it he had entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).  
What happened
Mr T took out a guarantor loan from ELL for £3,000 in June 2019. The monthly repayment 
was £134.96 and the total repayable was £8,097.60.  It was given on the basis that Mr T had 
a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if he failed to.
Mr T contacted ELL after he entered into an IVA in September 2019. He wanted to 
understand the difference between his contractual repayment and the contribution from the 
IVA so he could pay this amount to ensure his guarantor wasnt contacted. ELL said that as 
the IVA may not send payments for some time he might be better to continue to pay the full 
monthly amount if he wanted to prevent his guarantor being called on. Mr T agreed and did 
this apart from an agreed break due to being furloughed. He then contacted ELL in 
December 2020 to ask for a payment break due to tier 3 restrictions. At this point ELL said it 
could not accept payments from him as he was in an IVA and could only work with his 
guarantor.   
Mr Ts complaint is that ELL breached the terms of his IVA by insisting he continued to make 
his payments and by charging him interest after September 2019. He asks for an apology, 
for all those payments to be refunded and for ELL to accept future payments solely from the 
IVA. He says making the additional repayments after having agreed a budget for his IVA put 
him under physical, mental and financial stress.
ELL maintains it has made no error as it was acting on Mr Ts instructions to continue taking 
payments. It later contacted his guarantor in line with the terms of the loan once it fell into 
arrears. ELL set out the information it would need from Mr Ts Insolvency Practitioner if Mr T 
was unhappy with this finding and wanted it to investigate further. It seems Mr T did not 
progress this, but instead brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She found, after 
listening to the calls between Mr T and ELL, that the lender was acting on Mr Ts instructions 
and that it was reasonable to do so as Mr T made it clear contacting his guarantor would 
cause more distress.
Mr T disagreed with this assessment. He re-iterated that payments were wrongly taken from 
his account after he was in the IVA when he was told to keep paying. He was told the 
additional payments from the IVA would be returned to him on their receipt by ELL. And that 
ELL had already admitted to him on calls in December 2020 and March 2021 that he had 
been mis-informed back in 2019.
To be clear this decision does not consider ELLs decision to lend to Mr T as that did not 
form part of his complaint, only whether it was wrong to accept payments from him after he 
had entered an IVA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call between Mr T and ELL when he notified the lender that he had 
entered into an IVA on 5 September 2019. During the call Mr T said he hadnt wanted to 
include this loan in the IVA but was told he had to. So he wanted to pay the difference 
between the contractual monthly repayment and the payment from the IVA to ensure the 
lender would not contact his guarantor. After some discussion when ELL explained it may 
not receive payments from his IVA for a year or so, he agreed to continue to make the full 
monthly repayment to prevent his guarantor becoming liable. I know Mr Ts recollection is 
that ELL insisted he continued to pay as normal, but I dont think that is an accurate 
reflection of the discussion. ELL was presenting a solution for Mr T that meant his reason for 
calling  to ensure his guarantor wasnt contacted  was met. 
It follows I dont find ELL was at fault for following Mr Ts instructions and accepting his 
payments ongoing. It was Mr Ts decision to continue to make the payments to ELL to 
prevent his account falling into arrears and his guarantor becoming involved. 
I understand Mr Ts frustration when he was told on a call in December 2020 that ELL 
couldnt accept payments from him, only his guarantor, as he was in an IVA  and that a 
mistake must have been made the year before. But ELL later explained on a call in March 
2021 that was a miscommunication, and the reason it no longer accepted payments from 
people in an IVA was due to an internal policy change. 
Overall, I dont find there were failings on the part of ELL that it needs to take steps to 
correct. It followed Mr Ts instructions when he said he wanted to keep making the 
repayments in full, and when he was no longer able to do so it was entitled to contact his 
guarantor under the terms of the loan agreement. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman