DRN-2315830
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the settlement HMCA Insurance Limited has paid for surgery it 
covered under her personal private medical insurance company.
Mrs Ls represented by Mr L.
What happened
Mrs L had a personal private Medical Starter Plan which was underwritten by HMCA.
In March 2019, Mrs L made a claim for knee replacement surgery which she was due to 
undergo in May 2019. On 28 March 2019, HMCA contacted the private facility where the 
surgery was due to take place and let it know that the maximum benefit it would pay towards 
it was £8964. It sent a copy of this fax to Mrs L on the same day and also explained that it 
would pay a further £931 towards the surgeons fees  a total of £9895.
Mrs L underwent surgery as planned on 28 May 2019 and the hospital invoiced HMCA. The 
total bill was for around £13,600.  HMCA paid out £9895, which left a shortfall amount of 
around £3700 for Mrs L to pay. 
Unhappy with the shortfall amount and also because HMCA had added an endorsement 
excluding osteoarthritis-related claims to Mrs Ls policy, Mr L complained on her behalf. On 
review of a more detailed breakdown of the hospitals costs, HMCA agreed to pay a further 
£500 towards physiotherapy, in line with the policy limits and around £197 for ward 
consumables. This meant HMCA settled a total amount of £10,591.87. As a gesture of 
goodwill, it also agreed to cancel Mrs Ls policy and refund a proportionate amount of her 
premium  around £1398. It paid this amount directly to the private hospital to be offset 
against Mrs Ls outstanding balance.
Mrs L remained unhappy with the way HMCA had settled her claim and Mr L asked us to 
look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She considered that HMCA 
had settled the claim in line with the policy limits. And she thought itd made the fact thered 
be a claims shortfall clear around two months before Mrs L underwent surgery. So she felt 
Mrs L couldve challenged HMCAs proposed settlement before undergoing the surgery.
Mr L disagreed. Ive summarised his response. He felt it was impossible for a layperson to 
tell what costs would be covered if they looked at the policy benefits. He felt the key facts 
documents should make it clear that there could be significant shortfalls between what 
HMCA covered and hospital costs. He said that HMCA had only made a further payment 
after hed complained about the settlement. And he considered there shouldnt be a gulf 
between insurance pay-outs and hospital costs. He stated that Mrs L had queried the 
shortfall before the operation took place. And he didnt think the private hospitals charges 
were excessive.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I think HMCA has settled her claim 
fairly.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle complaints promptly and fairly. 
So Ive considered, amongst other things, the cover provided by Mrs Ls policy and the 
available evidence to decide whether HMCA handled her claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that following Mrs Ls knee surgery, the private hospital invoiced HMCA 
for around £13,600. HMCA ultimately paid out around £10,591 towards these costs to settle 
the claim. So Ive considered the policy limits to decide whether HMCA was entitled to apply 
them to its settlement of Mrs Ls claim. These limits were set out in the renewal 
documentation which HMCA sent to Mrs L on 22 April 2018  the applicable policy year. 
Page 5 clearly sets out the maximum amounts that HMCA will pay towards claims. For some 
costs, such as ward consumables, or accommodation, HMCA pays a full refund. For other 
costs, limits apply. Key to this complaint are the limits that applied to Mrs Ls claim: surgical 
costs of up to £1525; prostheses for a major operation of up to £2700; theatre fees of up to 
£2280 and pathology, investigations and physiotherapy fees of up to £1000. 
In my view, the benefits are clearly set out and the applicable limits are prominently 
displayed. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I think HMCA correctly applied these limits 
to its settlement when it paid the majority of Mrs Ls claim. Mr L accepts that some costs 
simply arent covered. I appreciate that HMCA initially didnt pay the full benefit amount for 
physiotherapy costs or include an amount for ward consumables. But on receipt of a detailed 
breakdown of the hospitals charges, HMCA increased the settlement to take these 
additional amounts into account. I think this was an appropriate response from HMCA.
Ive also seen a copy of the fax that HMCA sent to the hospital on 28 March 2019, which 
was also sent to Mrs L at the same time.  I think this clearly sets out the amount that HMCA 
was prepared to pay for the surgery and that any shortfall would be payable by Mrs L. This 
correspondence was sent two months before Mrs L underwent surgery. So I think both 
parties ought reasonably to have been on notice that there might be a shortfall between the 
cost of the surgery and HMCAs contribution. While Mr L says he did contact HMCA before 
the surgery to query the shortfall, Ive looked closely at HMCAs contact notes and theres no 
record showing he did so prior to the operation taking place. So I dont think I can fairly direct 
HMCA to pay the outstanding balance on this basis.
Its also important that I make it clear that I have no power to tell HMCA what benefits it 
should provide, or what its maximum policy limits should be. Thats for HMCA to decide. In 
this case, as Ive explained, I think the policy limits were clearly laid out on the renewal 
paperwork. If Mrs L thought the policy cover was insufficient for her needs, it was open to 
her to look for alternative cover with a different insurer.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs L because Im aware she will need to pay the 
outstanding balance to the hospital, I dont think HMCA has treated her unfairly. Its also 
clear that it did try to help Mrs L by refunding her premium proportionately in February 2020, 
even though she wasnt strictly entitled to the amount it refunded. This has helped to reduce 
the remainder balance. So I dont think HMCA needs to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman