DRN-3652527
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC allowed a fraudster to take out a loan in her name. 
What happened
In July 2021, Ms A was introduced to a fraudster posing as an investment broker. 
Shes explained that having allowed him to remotely access her computer, he started 
to look into credit options. She protested, as shed already a lot of credit. 
Ms A said she didnt realise hed applied and agreed to a loan in her name until the 
next day, when the money appeared in her account. She recalled that he told her not 
to worry, as shed quickly pay it back with the profits made, and his company was the 
guarantor. So she transferred the money to another newly opened account in her 
name, thinking it would be invested. In fact, it ended up in the fraudsters hands.  
When Ms A realised shed been scammed, she raised a complaint with Metro  she 
was unhappy it had allowed a loan to be taken out in her name and said it wasnt 
affordable. Metro said she was liable to pay it back. Unhappy, Ms A brought her 
concerns to our service to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Im persuaded Ms A herself didnt agree to take out this loan, and I dont think she 
gave permission for someone else to agree to the loan on her behalf. Its accepted, 
and theres evidence to support, she was a victim of an investment scam. And Ms A 
has provided a consistent and detailed testimony that while she recognised the 
fraudster was looking into getting credit, she didnt realise hed actually applied and 
agreed to the loan until the money was in her account the next day. Ive also noted 
that the application isnt reflective of Ms As circumstances  which supports that 
someone else made it and agreed to the loan.
However, Ms A has acknowledged that when the loan appeared in her account, she 
transferred it to another account in her name, thinking it would be invested. I realise 
she was tricked into believing shed be able to pay it back promptly with the profits 
shed made, and the fraudster would act as a guarantor. But it remains that Ms A 
ultimately made use of the loan.
In these circumstances, I think its fair that Ms A remains liable for the amount 
borrowed. But as she didnt agree to it at the time  and therefore couldnt have 
accepted the interest, fees and charges  I dont think itd be fair to hold her liable for 
these. So Metro should remove them and make sure Ms A only pays back what was 
lent. Ive noted shes said shes struggling to repay the loan  so Metro should work 
with her to arrange an affordable way forward for whats owed.
Metro should also make sure that any adverse information recorded as a result of the 
interest, fees and charges is removed from Ms As credit file. But Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Metro to reflect that theres an outstanding balance for the money lent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms As complaint. Metro Bank PLC must: 
Remove any interest, fees and charges from the loan and make sure that Ms A only 
pays back what was lent. 
Make sure that any adverse information recorded as a result of the interest, fees and 
charges is removed from Ms As credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman