DRN-3752385
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the amount of compensation Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
(Kensington) has offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside her mortgage.
What happened
Ms H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage which started in November 2004. The first three 
months cover was free, so Ms H started paying for the PPI in February 2005. The policy 
was cancelled in 2006 because the premiums werent being paid  the last premium paid 
was in July 2006. Ms H was having financial problems and sadly her home was repossessed 
in October 2007. 
Ms H complained that shed tried to claim on the policy, but it didnt pay out, and that the 
policy had been mis-sold. This service has separately looked into Ms Hs complaint against 
the underwriter about the claim, so I will not comment further on that in this decision. Ms Hs 
complaint about the sale of the policy was upheld, and Kensington offered £2,979.03 to 
compensate her for this mis-sale.
Ms H wasnt satisfied that Kensington had calculated the compensation correctly and 
complained to this service about this.
Our adjudicator said what Kensington had offered Ms H was fair. But Ms H wasnt satisfied 
and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs Hs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold has been upheld, I am not looking at the 
sale of the PPI in this decision. I am only considering whether Kensingtons offer of 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Ms H, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint about 
the amount of compensation. Ill explain why. 
Where a monthly premium PPI has been mis-sold wed usually expect a business to put the 
consumer back in the financial position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold to them. 
To do this Id expect the business to refund all the premiums paid together with 
compensatory interest for the time the consumer has been out of pocket. 
Kensington has provided a list of the transactions on the mortgage, including the PPI 
premiums. I have confirmed from this list that the total amount stated in Ms Hs redress 
calculation in relation to the premiums  £1,439.64  is correct. 
Im also satisfied that Kensington has calculated the interest correctly to arrive at the figure 
of £1,924.24, and correctly deducted tax of £384.85 from this compensatory interest in the 
way it is required to do.
Ms H has argued that Kensington should pay more compensation, because the policy didnt 
do what she expected, and she eventually lost her home. 
Ive thought about what Ms H told us, and I can see that she had a very difficult time. 
However, Kensington sent in a list of transactions on the mortgage, and a record of its 
contact with Ms H, and I can see from this that the account fell into arrears shortly after the 
mortgage started. So it looks as though Ms H had had financial difficulties for some time. 
Taking all this into account, I cant fairly say the mis-sale of the policy was the primary 
reason why Ms H lost her home. So I dont consider that I can fairly direct Kensington to pay 
additional compensation for the mis-sale of the policy, over and above the amount already 
offered (but it should pay the compensation previously offered if it has not already done so). 
So Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint against Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman