DRN-3855402
The complaint
Mr I complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) on 
his HomeCare cover.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I complains he reported a problem with his heating system in late 2021 and was left 
without heating and hot water for months. Im not persuaded, based on the evidence 
available to me, that I can fairly conclude this is accurate, or that if it is, BG is responsible. Ill 
explain why.
BGs job history records show an engineer attended on 23 November 2021 and found the 
boiler was working fine. The next record of contact from Mr I was on 13 January 2022. While 
Mr I says there was a problem with the system during this period, the evidence available to 
me doesnt support that BG knew about it. 
BGs records then show the following:
- 15 January 2022  the engineer said there was poor system circulation and 
recommended a power flush, which Mr I declined;
- 25 January 2022  the engineer thought the issue might be with a gas valve;
- 27 January 2022  a gas value was replaced (seemingly temporarily fixing the 
problem) and the engineer recommended a power flush, which Mr I declined;
- 17 February 2022  a gas valve was reset and the engineer recommended a power 
flush, which Mr I declined;
- 21 February 2022  the system was inspected
- 22 February 2022  a new gas value was fitted. This appears to have fixed the 
problem, at least temporarily. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied BG responded to Mr Is claim reasonably quickly and 
repeatedly until the problem was fixed, despite its repeated recommendation for a power 
flush being declined. Mr I suggests recommending a power flush was inappropriate and 
caused unnecessary delays. Im not persuaded thats this case, for the following main 
reasons:
- the nature of the alleged problem (radiators not heating up and a noisy pump) are 
symptoms of poor circulation, for which the remedy is generally a power flush;
- Mr Is system was about 30 years old, and power flushes had been recommended by 
BG, and declined by Mr I, in the previous years; and
- more than one engineer recommended a power flush, so this wasnt the opinion of 
one person.
Mr I is also dissatisfied about how a claim he made for a separate, electric based issue, was 
handled. As I understand it, there was a sockets fault which Mr I reported on 20 February 
2022 and BG repaired on 22 February 2022. I find that repair timeframe reasonable.
Overall, based on the evidence available to me, I find BG dealt with Mr Is claims 
satisfactorily. BG (and Investigator) agreed the customer service could have been better at 
times. For example, some visits were rescheduled/cancelled. BG offered Mr I £180 
compensation (in total) and a £50 policy discount. I consider this a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do as its offered, if 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman