DRN-4358405
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made under his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S had a travel insurance policy, provided through his packaged bank account. The policy 
provided cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr S has explained that he was due to travel abroad on 27 March 2023. But he was unable 
to go on his trip as planned. This was because the airline he was due to fly abroad with 
cancelled his flight  and it wasnt possible to get another flight. Because Mr S couldnt go on 
his trip, the non-refundable accommodation hed booked abroad was unused. So, Mr S 
contacted his travel insurer, AWP, to make a claim for lost accommodation costs.
AWP declined to cover Mr S loss. It said that the situation Mr S found himself in wasnt 
covered by the policy. Mr S didnt agree, so he complained about the matter. But AWP 
maintained its position. As Mr S remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said the 
cancellation section of Mr S policy didnt cover the particular situation he found himself in. 
And neither did the travel disruption part of the policy. So, they thought AWP has acted fairly 
in declining the claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that his policy did provide cover under the cancellation section for 
unused accommodation costs. And he said there was nowhere else in the policy that 
explained these costs werent covered. Mr S said hes also not heard of a travel insurance 
policy that didnt cover these costs. So, he remained of the opinion that AWP had acted 
incorrectly.
As Mr S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr S  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure 
the parties that I have considered all information provided to me, when arriving at my 
decision. However, when detailing my decision, Ive only referred to evidence where 
necessary to explain my reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  but reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AWP acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr S claim. And Im satisfied it did act in line with these requirements.
Ive reviewed Mr S policy documentation, to see what cover the policy provided. On doing 
so, Im aware that Mr S policy does provide up to £5,000 of cover, including for unused 
accommodation, due to the cancellation of a trip. But, as is usual with policies of this nature, 
the cancellation section doesnt cover a trip being cancelled in all circumstances. Instead, 
the reason for trip being cancelled must be one of those listed in the section as covered, for 
the policy to respond. If the reason the trip was cancelled isnt listed here, then the loss isnt 
covered, and the claim wont be settled.
The section lists several reasons where cancellation is covered. For example, death of the 
policyholder or travelling companion, being called for jury service, or compulsory 
redundancy. Ive thought about whether the reason Mr S trip was cancelled falls into one of 
those reasons listed as covered in the section. But it doesnt. Mr S trip was cancelled due to 
his flight being cancelled. This isnt a reason listed as covered. So, Im satisfied AWP acted 
reasonably in not covering Mr S loss under this section.
Ive considered whether there are any other sections of the policy that covers Mr S for the 
situation he was in. But, having reviewed the remainder of the policy, Im satisfied there isnt. 
None of the other sections say it covers costs incurred due to cancellation of a flight in such 
a way as Mr S experienced. So, I find that AWP acted fairly, and in line with the terms of 
Mr S policy when it declined this claim. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AWP P&C SA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman