DRN-2926836
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ageas Insurance Limited gave him an unreasonably low settlement offer 
for his car after it was written off following an accident.
What happened
Mr J owned a classic motor car over 20 years old. He was involved in an accident in 
December 2019 and claimed to Ageas under his car insurance policy.
Ageas engineer inspected Mr Js car and decided that it was beyond economic repair and 
should be written off. The engineer noted several areas of damage unrelated to the accident, 
including corrosion to exterior panels and alloy wheels. Ageas gave the car a market value 
of £1,115 and offered this in settlement of Mr Js claim.
Mr J didnt accept this. He explained the cars history and said it was a particularly rare 
example of this type of car. He also challenged Ageas assessment of his cars condition. 
Ageas refused to increase its offer, so Mr J complained to this service.
Mr J provided a trade guide valuation of £12,456, as well as links to online adverts showing 
cars of the same make and model for sale at similar prices. When our investigator put this to 
Ageas, it revised its settlement offer. It offered Mr J £5,800, less his £50 policy excess. Mr J 
still considered this offer to be too low.
Our investigator researched the valuation evidence from the professional trade guides and 
recommended that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Js car should be 
valued at £14,800 and Ageas settlement should be based on that figure, less the policy 
excess. He also recommended Ageas pay interest on the difference between this valuation 
and its original offer of £1,115 from January 2020. 
Mr J accepted our investigators recommendation. Ageas didnt. It believed its offer of £5,800 
was fair, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman issued a provisional decision on 29 March 2021. He said:
The question here to decide whats a fair settlement for Mr Js car. This means I need to 
look at two things:
Whats a fair value for Mr Js car?
What other factors affect this value?
First, Ive checked the wording in Mr Js policy. The policy schedule estimated the cars 
value as £25,000 but the policy says: Your vehicle is presently insured on Market Value. 
This means if your vehicle is lost or totally destroyed, you will be paid out the value of the 
vehicle at the time of the claim in line with current market trends. This could be more or less 
than the amount shown above. So Im satisfied that Ageas should pay Mr J the market 
value of his car.
Market value is defined in Mr Js Schedule of Insurance as the value of the vehicle at the 
time of the claim in line with current market trends. Ageas said it worked out the market 
value by using three trade guides, as well as the cars mileage and condition. Its engineers 
report in December 2019 showed the car had corrosion on the exterior panels and the alloy 
wheels, and the interior was showing signs of age. Finally, its engineer noted conflicting 
records of the cars total mileage:
The last recorded MOT in June 2019 showed the mileage at 163,231.
The mileage at the engineers inspection following the accident in December 2019 
was 102,028.
Ageas said it took all of this into account when it initially valued the car at £1,115.
Mr J said this valuation was based on the wrong model and relied on an inaccurate 
description of his cars condition. He said: I completely disagree with this, the car was 
roadworthy and very well maintained. He explained the history of the car and provided 
links to online ads showing similar cars for sale at higher prices, as well as a valuation for a 
car of the same make and model from a specialist car website (referred to here as H).
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types 
of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. However, these are less reliable where there are 
few cars of a particular model for sale. In this case, only one trade guide was able to provide 
a valuation for Mr Js car. Depending on the mileage, we found this trade guide valued the 
car at £2,512 or £3,190.
We can also consider adverts, although we recognise that the ultimate sales price is likely to 
be lower than the advertised price. In this case, both Mr J and Ageas provided adverts which 
they say show cars like Mr Js:
Mr J sent two online adverts showing cars for sale at £12,995 and £9,500. 
Unfortunately, these links no longer work so I couldnt review them.
Ageas sent us two adverts: one car with 79,000 miles on the clock where the price 
isnt visible; one with 145,250 miles for sale at £5,995.
Specialist car websites can also provide valuations for rare cars. Mr J provided a link to Hs 
website showing a similar make and model of his car in Fair condition valued at £14,800. 
When our investigator explained this to Ageas, it provided a screenshot from Hs website 
showing a car of the same make and model as Mr Js, in Fair condition, valued at £5,800. It 
used this value for its revised settlement offer.
Mr J challenged this. He said the valuation was from Hs US website. Our investigator 
contacted H. Its representative confirmed that the US and UK markets were different, and 
the same car could be valued differently in the two countries. 
Ageas said the weblink  which included the tag UKvaluation  showed its valuation was 
from the UK website. It suggested the difference was because our investigator valued the 
car almost a year after the accident. To check this, I clicked on the link Ageas sent us (H.com). This took me to what appeared 
to be the US website (US-focused articles, US contact phone numbers, etc). I wasnt able to 
find a quote for the same model as Mr Js car on this site. Separately, I entered the details 
for Mr Js car on the UK website (H.co.uk). I was able to find a quote for Fair condition at 
£14,800, as Mr J had said.
Its not clear to me where Ageas got its valuation, but I cant confirm it and I can confirm the 
one provided by Mr J. I dont think Ageas argument  that the difference was because Mr J 
and our investigator got the valuation eight months later  explains such a significant 
difference, particularly given the cars relative rarity. The valuation today  six months later  
is still £14,800. Given what Hs representative told us, I think its more likely that the 
difference in valuations can be explained by the difference in the UK and US markets.
Both parties accepted that H was a reasonable resource. Ageas described H as a long 
standing and well respected car guide within the rare and classic sector. In this case, and 
given the cars rarity, I think H provides a better starting point than the trade guide 
valuations. So, for the reasons set out above, I think a reasonable starting point for the 
market value of the car is £14,800.
Having said that, there are two more issues I need to consider.
First, Ageas noted that the car was previously a total loss. Its engineers report stated Prev 
Cat C 01-04-10. Mr J provided HPI information confirming this. I know Mr J disagreed with 
that decision, however the fact a vehicle has been previously written-off can put off potential 
buyers, no matter how well it was later repaired. So the Category C write-off will have an 
impact on the cars value. Our general approach in these cases is that its fair for insurers to 
deduct 20% from the market value of the car. That would reduce the cars value to £11,800.
Second, Hs valuation is for a car in Fair condition described by H as: flaws visible to the 
naked eye. The chrome might have pitting or scratches, the windshield might be chipped. 
Ageass December 2019 report described the cars pre-accident condition as poor and 
rated its condition as 3 out of 10 and noted the following damage, unrelated to the accident: 
1. The vehicle had corrosion on most exterior panels. 
2. Alloy wheels had corrosion. 
3. Interior was showing signs of age. 
In my opinion, corrosion goes beyond pitting or scratches. I know Mr J doesnt agree with 
Ageas report. For example, he told us one of the alloy wheels was brand new. However, he 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that the report was wrong or that the corrosion wasnt 
significant. The photos of the car that we have dont help me. So I dont see any reason to 
question Ageas engineers assessment of the cars condition.
Our general approach when making an allowance for pre-accident damage is to divide the 
cost of these repairs by two and then deduct that figure from the settlement. As a guide, we 
consider this broad brush approach to be a simple, fair way of assessing a fair reduction 
when handling this type of complaint.
Ageas provided two reports setting out the estimated cost of repairs. The first showed the 
cost of repairing all the damage to the car. Our investigator asked Ageas to provide the 
estimated cost of repairing only the pre-accident damage  the corrosion to the exterior and 
alloy wheels. However, the second report sent to us by Ageas appears to be an updated 
version of its estimate for repairs to all damage. This estimate is £7,969.08, including VAT, 
but it doesnt distinguish between repairs to pre- and post-accident damage. So its difficult for me to determine the cost of repairs that only affect the cosmetic appearance of the cars 
exterior.
That means its difficult for me to put a market value on Mr Js car in its pre-accident 
condition. I think Ageas should provide an estimate for the cost of repairing the corrosion to 
the cars exterior and alloy wheels in response to this provisional decision and Ill consider 
that when I make my final decision. I invite Mr J to provide his comments on this as well.
Finally, under normal circumstances when a business settles a total loss claim under a 
motor policy it retains the salvage (which means it takes possession of the vehicle in its 
damaged state). Mr J wishes to keep the car. In these circumstances, Ageas should be 
entitled to make a further deduction. I think Ageas should propose a reasonable deduction 
for salvage and Ill consider that when I make my final decision.
This has been a difficult case to resolve. Ive reviewed the varying evidence and 
submissions from both parties, and Ive considered their respective expertise in this area. 
Having done so, I think its likely that Ageas initial settlement offer was too low. And, at this 
stage, Im not persuaded that its revised offer is reasonable.
That means I intend to uphold the complaint and order Ageas to increase its offer. It should 
take its starting point for the value of Mr Js car as £11,800. It can make two further, 
reasonable deductions to reflect the poor condition of the vehicle, and Mr Js desire to retain 
the salvage. Ageas should propose these deductions in response to this provisional decision 
and Ill consider these before making my final decision.
I think Ageas should add 8% interest to any settlement because Mr J was unfairly without 
the funds because of Ageas unreasonable offer. However, Ageas doesnt need to add 
interest to the whole sum. It offered Mr J £1,115 on 23 January 2020, which he refused. Mr J 
could have accepted this and still contested the valuation. So I think the interest should be 
paid on the difference between Ageas first offer and its final settlement, from the date of that 
first offer.
Responses to the provisional decision
The ombudsman who issued the provisional decision is not in a position to send a final 
decision and so the case has come to me in my role as ombudsman.
Neither party accepted the provisional decision.
Mr J sent us a detailed reply, including 32 photos, which described the history of his car, how 
he maintained it over the last few years, and repairs/improvements at the time they were 
made, as well as photos of replacement parts and invoices. 
Ive reviewed Mr Js submission and photos very carefully and will summarise the key points:
Mr J doesnt agree with Ageas assessment of his cars condition.
This is a very rare car. There are only three others like it taxed on the road in the UK.
The options and improvements Mr J had made to the car make its value greater than 
Hs base model valuation.
He keeps a spare set of original wheels in good condition so that he can use two sets 
of tyres between summer and winter. Ageas engineer inspected the car when it was 
running on a set of wheels that werent in as good condition as the others.The car was regularly maintained, with improvements and/or refurbishments made to 
the rear bodywork, transmission, engine bay, brake discs and pads, shock 
absorbers, and leather interior (including seats). 
The electronic module on the speedometer was replaced. As the mileage data wasnt 
recorded in the cars engine control unit, this caused the mileage to be incorrect. 
Mr Js photos immediately after the accident show no rust on the bonnet or front 
wings.
There was some corrosion on the lower driver-side door that was due to be repaired 
at the time of the accident.
The car sat in a storage yard in bad weather for seven weeks after the accident 
before it was inspected, causing the rust identified by Ageas inspection.
The car was in excellent condition. Hs excellent valuation was £23,500, consistent 
with the estimated value of the car of £25,000 on Mr Js insurance schedule.
Ageas said:
It contacted H, who confirmed that the valuation it used was Hs UK valuation 
between November 2019 until May 2020.
As the car is relatively rare and this is a niche market, one vehicle selling at a high 
value at auction can cause a large fluctuation in value.
The information obtained at the time of the incident as far as we were concerned 
was correct and accurate and we have therefore acted fairly and reasonably based 
on the information obtained at the time.
Putting things right
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
provisional conclusions reached by the first ombudsman and I will uphold the complaint for 
largely the same reasons.
Ive summarised the situation below: 
The key issue here is working out a fair value for a rare car.
Standard trade guides dont help us.
Ageas has shown the valuation relied on in the provisional decision  from a 
specialist car website  was incorrect because the valuation was updated several 
months after the accident. 
Ageas says, therefore, that the valuation should be the lower specialist valuation, as 
in its earlier submissions to this service.
Mr J believes the valuation of his car should be much higher because the car was 
regularly maintained and in excellent condition. He has provided photos and invoices 
supporting this position.

Ive thought very carefully about the arguments put forward by both parties. I agree with the 
first ombudsman that Ageas initial and revised offers for Mr Js car were too low.
 
It appears that H through its experience is best placed to provide accurate data concerning 
classic cars. Our follow up work with H has shown Ageas to be correct about the valuation. 
The valuation relied on in the provisional decision was updated six months after the 
accident. However, H also told us the rarity of the car means the website valuation had not 
been updated for several months. It also said that the consequences of a single sale can 
have a dramatic effect on the values provided by the trade guides. I can also see that Mr J put the cars value at £25,000 when he took out the insurance, and 
although it is a rare model and hes had quite a lot of work done on it, I think this was 
speculative. In any event his policy states that the car is insured on market value. In 
determining the market value, I think all parties understand the limitations on the accuracy of 
the trade valuations but in the absence of more reliable information I think H provides the 
fairest means of obtaining a valuation. 
Having thought about the valuation and the information concerning the valuation previously 
applied not having been updated, I think the most accurate valuation which is fair to both 
parties is Hs updated valuation for Mr Js car.
I think that a deduction of 20% of the value of the car to reflect the fact that it had previously 
been written off is reasonable and in line with the approach we have taken with other cases. 
I have applied this deduction to the settlement in common with the provisional decision and 
this arrives at a value for Mr Js car of £11,800. 
Ageas hasnt said anything further about the condition of the car and so I dont propose to 
allow a further deduction for this. But as Mr J wishes to retain the car it is fair for Ageas to 
deduct an amount for the salvage value as this represents a loss to Ageas. The amount for 
salvage should be a reasonable amount in line with what Ageas would have obtained 
through its normal salvage process. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Js claim based on a market value for Mr Js car of £11,800, less the policy 
excess.
add 8% per annum simple interest on any settlement value over £1,115 from 23 
January 2020 to the date of settlement.*
Ageas Insurance Limited can deduct a reasonable amount for the salvage value it would 
have obtained had it retained Mr Js car.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman