DRN-2424797
The complaint
Mr S complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited didnt offer him a payment for his 
stolen car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in May 2019 and reported the car stolen two months later. He says 
Calpe wouldnt honour the claim and demanded to see a finance agreement on the car, even 
though hed made it clear from the outset that the car wasnt bought on finance. He thought 
Calpes demands had led to a delay in processing the claim. 
Calpe said there was no unreasonable delay on its part. It said it had contacted Mr S 
promptly and had asked for proof of purchase and proof of funds. It said that despite 
numerous further requests, it still didnt get the required details from Mr S, so it wasnt able 
to establish that he had an insurable interest in the car. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. She noted that Mr Ss policy said policy 
holders were required to provide any relevant details and documents Calpe needed to 
validate a claim. Proof of purchase was one example listed in the policy of an item it might 
require. She noted that Mr S had said he paid for the car in cash with savings and money 
from winnings on bets, but that Calpe said it had seen no evidence of that. 
Mr S told the investigator that hed checked with two bookmakers, who both said they didnt 
keep any record of transactions unless they were made using a bank card. Mr S said he 
didnt use bank cards in his transactions, so he couldnt provide any further evidence. He 
asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe accepted that the car wasnt on finance early on, so that wasnt the problem it had in 
validating the claim. Mr S told Calpe he bought the car from a private seller for £35,000. He 
said hed sent the receipt he got from the seller to Calpe, along with other documents, and 
that he had a certificate of posting. Calpe received the other documents Mr S sent, but not 
the proof of purchase. I think its possible Mr S left a document out of the envelope in error. 
But if thats the case, he could have resubmitted it to Calpe. It seems he hasnt done so. 
Calpe also asked Mr S to provide proof of finance for the car. He said it was paid for in cash 
rather than on a card, but that hed try to get evidence from bookmakers about transactions 
in which hed been paid out for winning bets. Im not sure that would have been enough  
but Mr S wasnt able to get that evidence anyway. I think that means hes asking Calpe to 
take it entirely on trust that he paid for the car - and paid the sum for it he said hed paid. 
Under the policy, Mr S had a duty to co-operate with Calpe and to provide any evidence it 
reasonably required. He did that to some extent by sending documents such as the V5 
registration form to Calpe on request. But I think it was reasonable for Calpe to consider it 
essential to establish that Mr S had an insurable (financial) interest in the car. As he wasnt 
able to do that, I think Calpe acted reasonably in not settling his claim. 
I dont think there was any unreasonable delay on Calpes part. It gave Mr S extra time to 
provide the details it needed to allow it to process his claim, which was for his benefit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman