DRN-3997345
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Canada Life Limited declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr W was a service engineer. He had a group income protection policy with his employer 
that was underwritten by Canada Life. 
In April 2021 he was signed off work by his General Practitioner (GP) as he was suffering 
from depression, stress, and anxiety.  He made a claim on his policy. 
Mr W told Canada Lifes nurse the reason hed stopped working was due to anxiety caused 
by customers and work colleagues not wearing face masks at work and the potential of 
passing on Covid-19 to his wife who was medically vulnerable. Mr W also told the nurse he 
had been issued with a verbal warning at work in April, which he disagreed with.
In October 2021, Canada Life arranged an Independent Medical Examination (IME). Mr W 
saw a consultant psychologist (Dr C) who concluded Mr W didnt have a substantive mental 
health problem that would stop him from working. 
Canada Lifes medical officer  a psychiatrist (Dr B)  also carried out a review of Mr Ws 
medical records and concluded he wasnt suffering from a mental illness and could attempt a 
gradual return to work, if his workplace issues were resolved. 
Canada Life declined the claim. Mr Ws employer appealed and instructed a report from an 
Occupational Health specialist (Dr M). She suspected Mr W might have specific learning 
disabilities. So, Canada Life wrote to the consultant psychologist again (Dr C). He 
maintained his opinion that Mr Ws workplace issues were the main barrier of him returning 
and pointed out Mr W had worked for 30 years without a learning disability being a barrier for 
him. 
Canada Life asked a consultant physician and rheumatologist (Dr W) to perform a
further review of all the evidence. And provide a professional opinion on Mr Ws physical 
illnesses (sciatica) and whether or not the side effects of his medication 
made it unsafe for him to work. 
Dr W concluded Mr Ws barrier to returning to work was an employment issue, not a medical 
problem. He confirmed Mr Ws medication shouldnt prevent him from working - he was 
driving around competently and undertaking normal physical and mental tasks outside of 
work. 
Canada Life maintained that the claim was fairly declined. Unhappy with this, Mr W 
complained. Our investigator looked at what had happened and said there wasnt enough 
medical evidence to show Mr W met the policy definition of incapacity. So he concluded 
Canada Life had been fair to decline his claim. 
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he said:
His occupation is a skilled and professional line of work, which requires someone 
who is sound of mind and fully focused to avoid health and safety risks. 
Canada Life hadnt obtained his GP records past March 2021, when he moved GP 
address and was able to see a doctor face to face.
He has only spoken to Canada Life or their medical professionals on the phone. 
His back injury may result in him using a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
So, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as: 
We will treat the member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period
and beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them
incapable of, performing the material and substantial duties of their normal
occupation.
Material and substantial is defined as:
The duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal occupation and 
which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by you or the member. The duties refer to 
the tasks the member is required to perform, and whether those tasks could be carried out 
for you (the employer) or any other employer. In addition a journey to and from the members 
normal residence to their normal place of work is not regarded as part of the normal 
occupation.
This means Canada Lifes assessment was based on Mr W being incapacitated from 
undertaking the duties of his job for any employer, not just his current one. And the 
incapacity must solely have been due to illness or injury and not for any other reason.
Based on the available evidence, I think it was fair for Canada Life to conclude Mr Ws 
absence was ultimately caused by circumstances at work, rather than an underlying health 
condition. And therefore he wouldnt meet the definition of incapacity.
Mr W said he experienced workplace issues before his absence  he was worried he was 
coming into contact with people without masks and he received a warning about his 
behaviour. There is also reference to him being unhappy with his employers historic 
response to previous health issues and his requests for reasonable adjustments.  
The evidence suggests Mr Ws depression was triggered by issues within his specific 
workplace, so it follows that he wouldnt have felt the same if he changed employer.  I dont 
think it was unfair for Canada Life to conclude he would be able to carry out his role with his 
current employer if the work-issues were resolved, or for another employer entirely. 
Ive also carefully considered the opinions of the medical experts in this case. I dont dispute 
Mr W was suffering from depression, had been signed off work by his GP and was taking 
medication. But that isnt enough to satisfy the terms of incapacity. Canada Life instructed several relevant medical professions from different fields to assess 
Mr W and his medical records. The independent medical opinions from the consultant 
psychologist and consultant psychiatrist, both stated there wasnt a mental illness preventing 
Mr W from returning to work. And both agreed it was the workplace issues at the centre of 
his symptoms and absence. This was also in line with the consultant physicians opinion. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Canada Life to give significant weight to these three 
medical opinions that were consistent with one another, even though the consultants hadnt 
met with Mr W face to face. I find their detailed submissions persuasive in relation to the 
barriers to Mr Ws return to work and I think it was fair for Canada Life to rely on them. 
I want to assure Mr W that Ive taken account of the safety aspect and risks involved with his 
specific type of work. But given the lack of medical evidence to support he has a mental 
health illness severe enough to prevent him from doing his duties, in addition to the 
presence of his workplace issues before his absence, Im not persuaded he meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
Mr W has made reference to a back injury. However, there just isnt enough medical 
evidence to support this prevented him from performing the duties of his role at the time of 
the claim. I also note Mr Ws concerns about the GP records that were obtained. However, 
Mr Ws claim form was signed in June 2021 and Canada Life contacted the GP listed, so I 
dont think they acted unfairly. And it was reasonable for them to rely on the GP records they 
received, alongside the consultants opinions. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr W but based on all the consultants opinions he 
doesnt meet the definition of incapacity, so Canada Life were fair to decline his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman