DRN-3339305
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim he made 
on a pet insurance policy.  
What happened
In February 2021 Mr H took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands over the telephone. 
In June 2021, Mr Hs pet dog, who Ill call R, received treatment for an eye condition. Mr H 
submitted a claim for the cost of the treatment, but this was declined by Red Sands. 
Red Sands said that Mr H didnt provide it with the correct information about Rs previous 
treatment history when he took out the policy. It explained had he of done so, an exclusion 
would have been added for all claims relating to the eyes. It was therefore applying the 
exclusion and declining the claim. Mr H complained but Red Sands didnt change its 
position. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and explained to Mr H he didnt think Red Sands 
had acted incorrectly. He agreed Mr H hadnt provided Red Sands with the correct 
information and therefore it was entitled to add the exclusion to the policy as it would have 
done. Mr H disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Red Sands thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he answered no to the question Have you ever taken R, to the vets for anything other than 
routine vaccinations?. 
Mr H has said he doesnt believe he answered this incorrectly. Ive listened to the call and in 
response to this question Mr H said errrm, no, we had him err neutered so that was done 
straight away. 
Having looked at Rs vet history I can see this isnt the correct position as R had also 
received treatments for other ailments, including treatment related to the eyes. Mr H had 
also previously made an insurance claim to a different insurer for a removal of a lump. 
Some of those ailments were discussed at annual vaccination appointments, with treatment 
given however, there were also some standalone appointments. 
Red Sands had provided underwriting evidence to this service which shows that had it 
known of the true position of Rs vet history, it would have added exclusions to the policy 
relating to allergies, skin conditions and all claims with respect to eyes and sight.
Im satisfied that under the relevant law, Mr R made a misrepresentation which can be 
classed as a qualifying misrepresentation  as Red Sands would have done something 
differently. So, Ive looked at the actions Red Sands can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In line with CIDRA, where a misrepresentation is considered careless, an insurer can add 
any relevant exclusions to the policy from the point of misrepresentation and then assess 
any claim in line with this added. This means that Red Sands was entitled to add the 
exclusions it did. And therefore, I think Red Sands correctly declined Mr Hs claim. 
I realise Red Sands initially told Mr H it would be adding the exclusions from 2022, however I 
accept this was a typing error. The letter went on to explain the exclusions were the reason 
the claim was being declined which it wouldnt have done if the exclusions were to be added 
from the next renewal. 
Mr H has said his vet has confirmed the condition wasnt related to any R had previously 
suffered from. However, this isnt relevant to my decision here. The claim has been declined 
on the basis of an overarching exclusion for any claims relating to eyes and sight. Whether 
or not the condition was linked would only have been a relevant consideration for my 
decision if Red Sands were relying on a different exclusion in the policy relating to treatment 
for pre-existing conditions.
For the reasons explained above, I think Red Sands has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it has dealt with Mr Hs claim. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman