DRN-3538566
The complaint
Miss S complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy but didnt tell her. She wants compensation for the stress this caused her.
 
What happened
Miss S took out a policy with Skyfire and it asked her to provide copies of documents to 
validate her policy. Miss S said she sent these in. But Skyfire said the documents werent 
sent from an email address on its system or to its validation team. So it cancelled the policy 
and it said it told Miss S this by text and email. Miss S said she didnt receive these and so 
she was driving for a year whilst uninsured. Skyfire refunded Miss Ss premiums and it later 
refunded its cancellation charge. But Miss S said it should compensate her for the stress she 
had been caused. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Skyfire 
had explained to Miss S what she needed to do in a call and in emails. It wasnt able to 
accept the information she sent in. She saw that Skyfire had then refunded the premium and 
the cancellation charge. She didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyfire agreed that Miss S did try and comply with its document request. It said it should 
have updated her email address after she called it when it first asked for the validation 
documents. But it didnt. I can understand that this must have caused Miss S frustration.
Skyfire told Miss S twice that it wasnt able to accept the documents she sent in because 
they werent from the email address it had on file. But I cant see that Miss S contacted 
Skyfire again to confirm receipt or to make sure that her policy was validated. 
So Skyfire didnt have the documents it needed to validate the policy and it started the 
cancellation process. I can see from its call logs that Skyfire sent Miss S notice of 
cancellation by email and text and confirmation by email. The emails wouldnt have reached 
Miss S as they were sent to an incorrect address. But I think she should have reasonably 
seen the text sent. Skyfire refunded her premium, but Miss S didnt query this. 
So I think Skyfire made a mistake when it didnt update Miss Ss email address to the correct 
one. But I also think it was for Miss S to make sure that her policy was in place. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Skyfire accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Miss S was without insurance for a year, but I cant see that anything untoward happened in 
this time that caused her any financial losses. Miss S was upset when she found that she 
had been driving uninsured for a year. But I can only consider actual not potential losses. So 
I cant say that Skyfire needs to do anything to restore Miss Ss position. 
Skyfire didnt charge Miss S her premium and it refunded its £75 cancellation charge. I can 
understand that Miss S was upset. And Skyfire agrees that its level of service could have 
been better. But, as Ive explained above, I also think Miss S could have done more to 
ensure her cover was in place. So I think the refund of the cancellation fee is sufficient 
compensation in the circumstances. I dont require Skyfire to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman