DRN-2284396
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
holiday. 
What happened
Mr K used his HSBC credit card to pay a total of £6,064 for an overseas holiday for his wife 
and himself that they took in 2018. He says that the holiday was ruined by wildfires so he 
made a claim to HSBC. It made a chargeback claim for £2,839 (which was the amount of 
compensation that he said hed accept) but the chargeback claim was rejected.  
HSBC then considered his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  but it 
said that it was unable to identify a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr K wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He wasnt  
persuaded that there had been either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
Mr K has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that wildfires 
had happened every year for the five preceding years, the brochures referred to pristine 
scenery all year around and made it clear that the destination was a place to visit at anytime 
of the year. But he says that the brochures didnt give a warning about wildfires or visiting at 
the time of the year when there had been wildfires for the past five years and made it clear 
that it was somewhere to be visited all year around. He says that that was a 
misrepresentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
HSBC had made a chargeback claim but the claim was rejected by the card issuer 
under the scheme rules as it didnt meet the requirements for a chargeback - there 
was a delay in the outcome of the chargeback claim being made but that was caused 
by the card issuer and not by HSBC;
I consider that HSBC acted correctly in making a chargeback claim but, when it was 
rejected, Im not persuaded that HSBC was required to take any further action under 
the chargeback rules;
HSBC then considered Mr Ks claim under section 75 - in certain circumstances, 
section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint about HSBC, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday company and that 
HSBCs response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im 
not determining the outcome of Mr Ks claim under section 75 as only a court would 
be able to do that;
its clear that the wildfires had a significant impact on Mr K and his wifes enjoyment 
of the holiday  and I sympathise with them for the issues that they experienced  but 
Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for the holiday company to 
mention the risk of wildfires in its brochures or that its statement that there was 
pristine scenery all year around was a misrepresentation; 
I understand that a state of emergency was declared because of the wildfires when 
Mr K was on holiday so I consider it to be likely that the fires were worse than would 
reasonably be expected  but Ive seen no evidence to show that the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office warned against travel to that country;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the holiday company and I consider that HSBCs 
response to Mr Ks claim has been fair and reasonable in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require HSBC to refund to Mr K 
any of the money that he paid for the holiday, to pay him any other compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman