DRN-2898096
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the price BUPA Insurance Limited has charged them for their 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold a Heartbeat personal private medical insurance policy, which renews in 
August of each year. During the 2019-20 policy year, Mr and Mrs C paid around £6900 for 
their premium. However, at the 2020-2021 renewal, Mr and Mrs Cs quote increased to 
around £8269  an annual increase of 19.2%. They were unhappy with the price BUPA 
planned to charge them, so they complained and asked it to check the price.
BUPA looked into Mr and Mrs Cs concerns. It gave them a breakdown to explain the 
increase. It said the price was right. But Mr and Mrs C were still unhappy with BUPAs 
explanation. So they asked us to investigate their complaint. They were particularly unhappy 
because they felt BUPA was holding them captive. Thats because Mrs C was undergoing 
ongoing treatment for a serious medical condition and it would be difficult for them to find 
alternative cover. 
Our investigator thought BUPAs evidence showed it had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly when it 
worked out their premium. So he didnt think that their complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They asked a series of questions about the way BUPA had 
calculated their premium and its explanations about the increases in price. They asked 
specifically whether BUPA had showed it didnt take a prejudicial approach to policyholders 
who suffer from the same condition as Mrs C. They werent satisfied that BUPA had set their 
premium fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive thought very carefully about everything theyve 
said and sent us. But while Im sorry to disappoint them, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr and Mrs Cs. We dont 
generally tell insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover 
that risk. BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a 
particular risk (in this case, Mr and Mrs Cs health). And if it does, what price it needs to 
charge for that. So BUPA will have assessed the risk of Mr and Mrs C needing to make a 
claim when they first took out the policy and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it 
thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because claims have been made or because 
health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in complaints 
like this what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and 
whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have been 
treated in the same way as any other BUPA customer in similar circumstances and havent 
been singled out. 
Mr and Mrs Cs renewal price went up quite a lot at the 2020-21 renewal. So I can 
understand why theyre worried that BUPA hasnt treated them reasonably. BUPAs given us 
the calculations to show how its worked out Mr and Mrs Cs premium. Ive looked carefully 
at these and I do think its calculated the 2020-21 price fairly. Im sorry that I cant share all of 
the evidence Mr and Mrs C want to see from BUPA, setting out the exact things its taken 
into account when its calculated their price.  And I do appreciate why they may think seeing 
it would reassure them that BUPAs acted fairly. But this information is commercially 
sensitive to BUPAs business and so its confidential.
But what I can tell Mr and Mrs C are the main reasons why their premium increased 
substantially at the last renewal. These are the impact of claims Mrs C has made during the 
past policy year and an overall scheme increase, which takes into account medical inflation, 
as well as BUPAs ability to pay future claims. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPAs 
treated Mr and Mrs C in the same way it would any other policyholder in similar 
circumstances to their own. So I cant reasonably say its treated them unfairly.
BUPA has explained to Mr and Mrs C that it can lower their premium at renewal if they 
consider changing their policy options. I can appreciate why they may not wish to do so, 
given the potential impact on ongoing cover for Mrs Cs long-term treatment. And that this is 
also the reason why they dont want to seek alternative cover from a different insurer. I also 
understand they feel the private treatment Mrs C receives is better than if she needed 
treatment through the NHS, so they want to maintain private cover. I do sympathise with 
their position. 
I note that Mr and Mrs C have also mentioned that the price rise happened at a time when 
BUPA was receiving a reduction in claims and its services were reduced due to Covid-19. 
BUPA initially said an independent review would take place to see if thered been any 
exceptional financial benefit to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance to assess 
the impact of Covid-19 on claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any difference to 
its members by way of a refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this was an unfair 
position for BUPA to take. 
BUPAs website suggests that this review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of July this year. I should say 
that theres no guarantee that Mr and Mrs C will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is for 
BUPA to calculate. If Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way their rebate is calculated, they 
should contact BUPA about that issue. 
But, overall, I think BUPAs treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman