DRN-3105329
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt process a standing 
order in time for him to be eligible to enter a prize draw as part of his savings account. 
What happened
Mr B was required to make regular payments into his Nationwide savings account to be 
eligible to enter a prize draw. A standing order payment into his account for 28 February 
2021 wasnt processed until 1 March so Mr B wasnt entered for the next prize draw. So,    
Mr B complained to Nationwide. 
Nationwide responded and said no payment was made into Mr Bs account in February 2021 
which meant he wasnt eligible to be entered into the next prize draw. Nationwide said they 
understand Mr B has a standing order set up to credit his Nationwide account on day 28 of 
each month. However, in this instance, 28 February fell on a Sunday and, as per the terms 
and conditions of his account, standing order payments can only be made on working days. 
Nationwide said, as such, the payment was made the next working day which was 1 March. 
Nationwide suggested, to avoid this happening in the future, Mr B could amend the payment 
day to earlier in the month as this would ensure, if the standing order fell on a weekend 
again, it will still get paid within the intended month. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He thought Nationwide hadnt acted 
unreasonably in not entering Mr B into the prize draw. Mr B disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Bs savings account. This sets out the 
eligibility requirements for Mr B to enter into Nationwides prize draw. It says prize draws will 
take place every three months and, to be eligible, Mr B must increase his account balance 
by at least £50 in each of the three months leading up to the month of the prize draw. For 
example, to be eligible for the prize draw in April 2021, Mr B needed to increase his account 
balance by at least £50 in January, February and March 2021. Ive looked at Mr Bs 
statement for his account and this shows no payment was made into his account in 
February. So, this meant Mr B wasnt eligible to enter the prize draw in April. I dont think 
Nationwide have acted unfairly here as Mr B didnt meet the eligibility criteria set out in the 
terms and conditions. 
That said, I understand Mr B set up a standing order for a payment to be made on 28 
February but this wasnt processed until 1 March  so Ive looked into this further. 
Ive looked at Nationwides website and this sets out how standing orders are processed, 
This says When you set up a standing order, you choose the date it will leave your current 
account. If this date falls on a weekend or a bank holiday, it will be made the next working 
day. I can see Mr B set up the standing order for day 28 of each month. For the month of 
February 2021, this fell on a Sunday so, in line with the terms and conditions set out on 
Nationwides website, this meant the payment wasnt made until the next working day - and 
that was Monday 1 March. This did unfortunately mean Mr B missed a payment into his 
account for February. I think the terms and conditions do make it clear how Nationwide will 
process a standing order payment. It therefore follows, that I dont think Nationwide have 
made an error here. 
I understand Mr B feels its unreasonable for banks to expect customers to appreciate how 
banking days work and he feels it isnt fair to expect customers to read every single term and 
condition. I do understand Mr Bs point but processing payments like standing orders on 
weekdays only is general industry practice  so I cant say this is a process which is unique 
to Nationwide. But, in addition to this, I do feel its important that customers read terms and 
conditions as this sets out key information about their account and what to expect from their 
bank. And, in this case, as mentioned above, I think the terms and conditions are clear on 
how Nationwide would process Mr Bs standing order.   
I am sorry to hear Mr B wasnt entered into the prize draw for April but I cant say Nationwide 
have acted unreasonably here  so I dont uphold the complaint. I do however feel 
Nationwides suggestion for Mr B to change his standing order date to earlier in the month 
might be something for Mr B to consider to avoid a similar situation from arising.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman