DRN-3561360
The complaint
Mr N complains British Gas Insurance Limited breached his home emergency insurance 
contract with them when advising him to replace his boiler.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whats happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of my final decision.
On 4 December 2020 Mr Ns carbon monoxide alarm triggered  and after investigations he 
was told his boiler wasnt safe to use so it was shut off. This was completed by another 
company.
Mr Ns home emergency insurance covers his boiler, so he asked British Gas to come out 
and look at it. British Gas engineer came out to view the boiler, and ultimately said there 
was a hole in the boiler and there was corrosion. Mr N received a quote from British Gas for 
a new boiler of £2,906.50  and with it being the middle of winter, Mr N accepted this quote 
in good faith  and had the new boiler installed.
Mr N says he later became aware there was no hole or corrosion as had been suggested  
and a broken part could have been replaced for around £8 which would have meant the 
boiler was in working order again. Mr N said this service is covered free of charge with his 
policy, and he felt British Gas had breached his contract with them. So, he complained  
adding his annual service had been carried out 45 days before and found no issues, and he 
felt British Gas engineer had broken this part of his boiler.
British Gas set out their position in a letter dated 24 February 2021. They said:
Mr Ns boiler was 17 years old and was on a reduced service list as some parts were 
no longer available, and theyd previously advised replacing the boiler due to 
corrosion on the casing.
The reason British Gas attended was after the boiler had been shut off due to the 
carbon monoxide warning. Their engineer found this was due to incense being 
burned in the property not the boiler.
But while investigating the source of the carbon monoxide, they removed the casing 
which had been around the boiler and found a test valve on top of the boiler was 
broken. This led the engineer to immediately condemn the boiler, as it was 
dangerous due to having a hole in the casing. They added this valve hadnt been 
accessed by British Gas engineers before, as safety tests and annual services didnt 
need to access this.
As there is no evidence they broke this valve, they didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr N asked us to look into things  providing a substantial information 
when doing so.
One of our Investigators looked into things, she found there was enough evidence to 
reasonably say Mr Ns boiler did need to be replaced, so didnt uphold his complaint. As 
Mr N didnt agree with that, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Before doing so, our service asked Mr N to get an independent report about the state of his 
boiler  he did, and this said there wasnt a hole in the casing, nor was anything corroded.
We put this to British Gas  as at this point it didnt seem to me theyd properly proven they 
had a reason for condemning Mr Ns boiler. We invited them to make an offer which should 
address Mr Ns comments he should be refunded the full cost of his boiler, be given £400 
compensation  and we also suggested they refund the cost of the report Mr N got. The cost 
of this was £85.
In response, British Gas said they found Mr Ns engineers comments very concerning. And, 
in brief, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in condemning the boiler.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ns complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant 
to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of Mr Ns complaint is that British Gas breached their contract with him by not 
replacing the broken part of his boiler when they should have. As a result of this breach, 
Mr N says hes suffered financially.
I cant decide if legally British Gas have breached the terms of the contract, but I can look at 
whether theyve acted fairly in condemning Mr Ns boiler. 
I think its important to explain as a starting point Im not an engineer so I dont have the 
expertise to decide whether the boiler should or shouldnt have been condemned  instead, 
Im reliant on the evidence provided by both parties. 
In their response to Mr Ns complaint, British Gas have said there was a hole in the casing 
which appears to be a fundamental part of the reason they condemned Mr Ns boiler. Weve 
asked British Gas to point out where this hole is, but they havent done so. 
British Gas also gave another reason for condemning the boiler saying there was corrosion 
on the casing, and explaining theyd suggested the boiler be replaced previously due to this. 
But, British Gas notes dont support this statement  the first mention of any corrosion was 
after the emergency incident.
The independent report Mr N got, says I found no damages or corrosion on the heat 
exchanger and the casing in which the boiler has been assembled. However I noted the flue 
sensing nipple, mounted on the external casing of the boiler has been broken.
British Gas say their reservations about this are:The engineer was able to inspect a boiler stored in a dry cupboard for over a year
The engineer wasnt called to a potential carbon monoxide investigation
He was able to test the appliance under working conditions
The investigation and pictures do show corrosion and based on this being a potential 
carbon monoxide incident the decisions made at the time with Mr N resulted in an 
urgent replacement appliance
The engineers investigation doesnt factor in real life scenarios when encountering 
potential Immediately Dangerous situations
The hole was test nipple related and these are clearly visible
In thinking about British Gas argument, it seems their key point is Mr Ns engineer was able 
to conduct a more considered test  because he wasnt replying to a potential urgent 
situation. But, equally, by the time British Gas engineers were on site, the boiler as I 
understand it had been shut off. So, in effect, the urgent nature which British Gas are 
referring to had already passed, because the boiler had been shut off so it wasnt using any 
gas. And regardless of the urgent nature, I wouldnt expect British Gas engineers to 
condemn the boiler without appropriate consideration of the consequences of that  mainly 
the cost of a replacement boiler.
Mr N has talked quite a bit about the test flue nipple and said that could be replaced. I think 
its helpful to say British Gas have agreed with this  they accept it can be replaced and say 
theyve never argued this. Im not sure that was as clear to Mr N as it could have been, but I 
think it helps me in deciding the outcome.
Ultimately then, British Gas say the hole was due to the test flue nipple, which could have 
been replaced, and corrosion on the casing. Ive noted British Gas say this can be seen in 
the photos, but Ive got an independent report from someone registered with the appropriate 
authority to say there is no corrosion. Combined this with what appears to be inconsistent 
information from British Gas about previous corrosion they say they noted, but which isnt 
mentioned on their notes before attending for this issue, means Im planning to uphold this 
complaint. Based on all the evidence Ive got, it seems British Gas engineers decided to 
condemn the boiler, without fully assessing the situation. I think given the potential cost of 
doing that, this course of action wasnt fair.
In thinking about a fair outcome, I cant agree with Mr Ns comments he should be provided 
the full cost of the new boiler he paid. I say that because his existing boiler was 17 years old. 
Some boilers can last a long time, or it could be that Mr Ns boiler was near the end of its 
useful life. Even taking into account the service Mr N had just beforehand, which said the 
boiler was performing fine, doesnt mean something couldnt have gone wrong with a part 
shortly afterwards. And, Mr N now has a brand-new boiler, which will likely last far longer 
than the previous boiler he had. So, for this element of his complaint Im going to award 50% 
of the total cost of the boiler, installation and any other associated costs. In thinking about the compensation, I dont agree with the £400 Mr N has asked for. Hes 
said this is for heating and takeaways he and his family needed, while British Gas were 
carrying out their investigations  when actually he could have just got the part needed to fix 
his boiler which cost around £8. But it could potentially have taken some time to get the part 
he needed, and then some further time before someone was available to fit it  assuming 
theyd have agreed to do so. I do though think some compensation is due, given Mr N has 
effectively paid out for a new boiler that I cant say with certainty he needed  and I think at 
times British Gas communication could have been better. It seems all along theyve 
accepted the flue test nipple could have been replaced, but Mr N was under the impression 
they were saying it couldnt be  and I can see why he was a little confused by this. So, 
overall, Im going to award £200 for this.
And, finally, Im going to require British Gas to pay for the independent report he got  which 
came in at £85. The reason for this is because I cant say British Gas should have 
condemned his boiler  so had they not acted unfairly this is a cost he wouldnt have 
incurred.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas didnt agree with my provisional decision, in summary they said:
They didnt think any reimbursement is warranted for the new boiler or the third-party 
report. They said this was an assessment of a non-functioning appliance thatd been 
stored without any water, gas or electricity running through it.
Their records showed two experienced engineers reported the same damage to the 
boiler  and they dont think the casing for the boiler was ever available as a 
standalone part. 
They felt two key points had been missed  the first being that although the boiler 
was made isolated / gas safe, the boiler was full of water and the corrosion on the 
heat exchanger was highlighted and likely wet while the appliance was on the wall.
The second point was the boiler had been classed as a code five (new boiler 
recommended) prior to this visit.
They summarised by saying they provided Mr N with the evidence they found on the day of 
their visit, and it was his decision to go ahead. They also provided four photos but didnt 
explain them when doing so.
Mr N accepted the compensation, and refund of the £85 engineer fee, but also didnt agree 
with the outcome Id reached. In summary, he said:
Ive clearly identified that the replacement of the boiler occurred because of a flawed 
diagnosis by British Gas. Given the smooth working of their boiler beforehand, along 
with the inspection report carried out before saying the boiler was working fine, its 
reasonable to assume the boiler would have continued to operate.
Theyve moved out of their property which was something they were planning before 
this issue happened, the boiler hasnt added any value to the property  so they cant 
enjoy the benefits of a new boiler.
He understood my inclination to leave open the question of legality, but as British 
Gas regularly advertise saying theyll live up to the contract at no cost to their clients, 
they should refund them 100% of the costs.Mr N said he also forgot to previously mention a £300 no win no fee claim hed made, and 
he asked me to consider this also.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas response
I think its important I reiterate my role isnt to decide whether the boiler should or shouldnt 
have been condemned  instead I have to look at the evidence provided by both sides to 
determine whether British Gas have acted fairly.
Currently Ive got a specific report from someone who has gone out to look at Mr Ns boiler. I 
do appreciate this is some considerable time after the event, and there isnt any gas, 
electricity or water in the boiler, but Id still expect the corrosion to be present. The report 
says there isnt corrosion on the heat exchanger or the casing, which British Gas says there 
was and that was the reason for condemning the boiler.
Ive noted British Gas point theyd marked the boiler as one needing to be replaced before 
this event. But, what they actually said was there was corrosion on the boiler which meant it 
was unsafe. Corrosion itself was never specifically mentioned in the notes in the lead up to 
the event  so I cant be satisfied this is something British Gas saw before, because its not 
mentioned anywhere.
Ultimately, Ive got to be satisfied British Gas engineers made a fair and appropriate 
recommendation. Ive noted their point that it was Mr Ns decision to go ahead with the new 
boiler, but hed have quite reasonably relied on what he was told by British Gas engineers. 
The report I have clearly calls into question the information British Gas engineers told Mr N 
 so Ill continue to uphold this complaint.
Mr Ns response
Coming to Mr Ns points, I do need to explain again I cant decide if British Gas have acted 
legally or not. I can take into account the law, but my overall remit is to decide matters on a 
fair and reasonable basis. If Mr N wanted a legal opinion, hed need to speak to a solicitor.
As Mr N has accepted the compensation, and the refund for the engineers fee, I dont need 
to comment further on those.
Dealing with Mr Ns points in order I do understand why he thinks the full amount should be 
refunded. But, as I set out above, his boiler was around 17 years old at that time. I dont 
think itd be fair to require British Gas to pay for the entire boiler being replaced, when the 
new boiler will almost certainly have a far longer lifespan than his old one had.
I do appreciate Mr N is now moving, and therefore wont benefit from the new boiler. But that 
isnt something I can reasonably say is British Gas responsibility.
Overall then, I still think a 50% refund of all costs for the new boiler is a fair outcome for this 
element of the complaint.
Mr N has also mentioned he paid £300 in relation to this claim. From what hes said, he paid 
this in an effort to get his claim upheld. Generally, we wouldnt refund the cost of 
professional services used in relation to a complaint given were a free service  and I dont think it would have been necessary in Mr Ns case. So, I wont be requiring British Gas to 
pay this to him either.
Putting things right
To summarise then, I require British Gas to:
Refund 50% of the cost of the new boiler  including all associated costs
Pay Mr N £200 compensation
Refund Mr N the £85 fee he paid for the independent report
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I partially uphold the complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman