DRN-2562417
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer, should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a policy Miss M took out with a store card in November 1996. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss M mainly said that she didnt elect to take out PPI and she wasnt aware she had PPI 
on her store card. She told us it must have been added without her knowledge by the 
cashier who completed the form. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA has given us a copy of Miss Ms store card application. Theres a tick in the PPI part of 
the form, next to where it says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and Purchase 
Protection Insurance Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice. 
Miss M mentioned that the cashier may have filled in parts of the form  including marking 
where she needed to complete required information, like her name and address and contact 
information.
But that wouldnt be particularly unusual. And thats not a reason on its own for me to uphold 
her complaint. 
I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said to Miss M about the PPI. But I can see that 
she didnt choose to sign up for another optional feature offered with the store card she was 
applying for. So I think it wouldve been clear to Miss M from the paperwork that it was up to 
her to say if she wanted to have PPI added on.   
Miss M also signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Miss M wouldve first read 
through anything she was asked to sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it 
seems to me that by signing the form Miss M was indicating that she agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
Ive no doubt that Miss M feels certain about everything shes told us. But what Miss M says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint just based on the way she 
says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. 
Ive taken into account what Miss M has said about the way she believes the tick for PPI was 
put on the application form. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that 
the cashier ticked the form to say Miss M wanted PPI without Miss M knowing about it or 
agreeing to it.  
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough information to say that AXA didnt make Miss M 
aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. 
On balance, I think Miss M was aware she was signing up for PPI, she understood the policy 
was optional and it was added to her account when she indicated that she wanted to take it 
out. 
AXA shouldve given Miss M enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I need to consider if Miss M wouldve acted differently, and not bought 
the policy, if clearer information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Miss M was off work sick or if Miss M lost 
her job unexpectedly and was out of work. (It also offered other cover but Im concentrating 
in my decision on the PPI part of the policy. So I have ignored this extra benefit when 
deciding whether to uphold the complaint that PPI was mis-sold).
In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance if Miss M 
wasnt able to go back to work. Miss M hasnt mentioned having any significant other means 
she couldve relied on if she wasnt working  she told us that she was able to rely on 
statutory sick pay only and she had no savings. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Miss M couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. 
It doesnt look as if Miss M was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover when she 
took out this PPI. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
put Miss M off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss M clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Miss M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application form that she was happy to 
pay to have it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss M, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy. This means Miss M hasnt lost out as 
a result of anything AXA did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman