DRN-3224195
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc caused him a great deal of difficulty when he tried 
to complete a bank transfer.
What happened
Mr F wanted to make a transfer from his Clydesdale account to another bank. When he tried 
to make the payment online it wouldnt go through  even when Mr F tried smaller amounts. 
He was told he had to use a mobile phone app but that wouldnt work either.
Mr F said he wasnt warned his online login process would change once hed installed the 
app. As a result he wasnt able to access his funds. And after spending more hours trying to 
get an answer from Clydesdale he was offered £30 compensation. Mr F said hes spent a lot 
of time trying to resolve the problem and hes been very stressed by the experience. He 
would like at least £150 to offset his considerable inconvenience. 
Clydesdale said it could see Mr Fs internet banking payment had been put on hold. And it 
could see he was unhappy about the change to the login process once hed downloaded the 
banks app. The bank explained it needed to complete a greater level of security checks 
when making higher value payments. Mr F had to authenticate large payments using a 
mobile app or a security token. Clydesdale said its fraud prevention system might also flag 
up payments for security reasons  and that had happened here. But it could see the 
payment had been quickly released and transferred to the other account. 
Clydesdale apologised that the change to the login process hadnt been explained to Mr F. 
And it was sorry to hear Mr F had waited a long time on the phone trying to resolve things. 
So itd arranged for a payment of £30 to be paid to his account.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see the terms and conditions of 
the account limited transfer amounts to £1000 a day unless the mobile app or a security 
token was used. And she felt the bank had acted in good faith with additional checks to 
protect against potential fraud. Following confirmation from Mr F the transfer had gone 
through the following morning. 
Our investigator felt Clydesdales offer of £30 compensation was reasonable for the amount 
of time Mr F had waited on the telephone. And she didnt feel Clydesdale had acted 
unreasonably with regards to the timescales around the transfer. So she wouldnt be asking 
it to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator. Hed still been unable to make any transfers, no 
matter what the amount, after installing the mobile phone app. And he couldnt use a security 
token to approve his online transfer as it wouldve taken weeks to arrive from the bank. 
Mr F said hed spent over four hours on the phone. And a similar amount of time trying to get 
the phone or internet banking to approve his transfer. So the offer of £30 didnt reflect his 
stress and inconvenience. And hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating Mr F mustve found this experience. He wanted to transfer 
a sum of money to an account at another bank. And he says hed not had any problems 
doing so in the past. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr F and Clydesdale have said to 
see whats happened.
Mr F logged into his online banking in the late afternoon to complete a transfer of money. 
When he couldnt get the transfer to go through, even after hed tried smaller amounts, he 
contacted Clydesdale using the online chat.
The bank explained the terms and conditions of the account limited daily transfers to a 
maximum of £1000. Mr F wanted to transfer more than that. So he was advised to use either 
the mobile app or a security token. In either case the daily limit was much greater and he 
would be able to complete his transfer.
I appreciate that Mr F says he was able make large transfers in the past without any 
problem. But unfortunately banking fraud is a growing problem. And banks have had to 
introduce additional security measures to try and safeguard both the bank and its customers 
from potential fraud. 
I understand a hold had then been put on the transfer until further security checks could take 
place. So even though Mr F had downloaded the banks mobile app he was still unable to 
complete the transfer. 
For security reasons the bank isnt able to disclose exactly why the transfer was held up. But 
this usually happens when a customer tries to make a transfer thats much larger than 
normal, or when personal details have changed, or it may have been because Mr F tried to 
make a number of smaller transfers to see if they would go through.
In any event, Clydesdale felt it was better to hold the transfer until Mr F had confirmed the 
payment was legitimate. And I dont think that was unreasonable. Im sure Mr F wouldnt 
want his bank to authorise what it considered unusual payments without first checking Mr F 
had authorised them.
I can understand Mr Fs annoyance that the activation of mobile banking changed how his 
online banking logon worked. He hadnt been warned that would happen. And Im pleased to 
see Clydesdale deactivated Mr Fs mobile app and his online banking process has returned 
to the way hes used to.
The payment was authorised in the early morning of the following day after Mr F confirmed 
to Clydesdale that the transfer was legitimate. So while I recognise that Mr F spent quite a 
few hours on the phone and online chat finding out whatd happened, I cant really say 
Clydesdale delayed matters unnecessarily. 
Clydesdale did apologise for the longer than expected time Mr F had to wait while trying to 
get through on the phone. And its paid £30 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
I know Mr F doesnt feel thats enough for the time and stress he suffered. But I think its fair 
and reasonable given the relatively short delay in completing the transfer. And its in line with 
the sort of award our service would make in similar circumstances. I know Mr F will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But I wont be asking Clydesdale to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman