DRN-3662874
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S says the interior of his car became flooded as a result of heavy rainfall during a 
storm. So he made a claim for the damage under his motor insurance policy.
Ageas instructed a motor engineer to inspect the vehicle who concluded thered been 
a buildup of debris (leaves) that blocked the drainage pipes and that this had 
happened over time resulting in the vehicle flooding when the storm hit. 
Ageas declined the claim on the basis the water ingress was the result of something 
that happened gradually and was likely a maintenance issue, so wasnt accidental 
damage and therefore not covered under the policy. Mr S disagreed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the subsequent complaint Mr S brought to this service 
about the matter as he was persuaded by Ageas appointed engineers findings and 
was therefore satisfied it had acted in line with the policy terms in declining the claim.
Mr S disagreed. He said the damage was the result of a one-off event  causing 
leaves to block the drainage system in his car resulting in internal water ingress. 
To support this, he provided a report from the garage he instructed to carry out the 
repairs to the vehicle (Company A), which was backed up with an email from a 
branch of the car manufacturer (Company B).
The investigator considered both of these reports and was then persuaded by the 
addition of Company Bs findings. He therefore changed his mind and upheld the 
complaint, saying Ageas should pay the claim.
Ageas disagreed citing that Company B had never seen the vehicle in relation to the 
incident and had simply copy and pasted Company As findings. It also questioned 
both companies impartiality given one company carried out Mr Ss vehicle repairs 
and the other was responsible for the warranty and servicing of it. 
Ageas asked that the case be looked at by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
to make a decision.
I issued a provisional on this case in August 2022. Ive included part of this below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Car insurance is essentially designed to cover a vehicle for loss or damage due 
to a type of unforeseen event, often known as an insured event or insured peril. 
And the policy documents will usually set out what the insured perils are and any 
exclusions or limitations that apply.
In this case, Ageas say Mr S is covered for accidental damage to his vehicle, but 
the policy terms exclude any damage that happens because of general wear and 
tear or that happens gradually  regardless of the circumstances.
Exclusions like this are often seen in motor policies. And its not unfair for Ageas 
to rely on it in this case if it can reasonably evidence that the exclusion fairly 
applies.
Ive looked at the reports provided by both parties. The content of these reports 
is known to both parties, so Ill set out what I think are the key points in my 
findings.
Ageas engineer report is backed up with several photos which essentially show 
that the drainage pipes on both sides of the car are filled with debris (leaves / 
vegetation).
On balance I accept this is most likely to have happened over time and could 
have an impact on how well the pipes work.
The photos also show that the pipe on the offside of the car was, at that stage, still 
dry, and so as I understand it was the interior of that side of the vehicle. However, 
the nearside pipe was filled with water  suggesting the debris had caused a 
blockage on that side and water was flowing back into the interior of the vehicle on 
that side instead of draining out as it should.
With all that in mind, Im currently persuaded that the gradual build up of debris 
likely caused a blockage in the nearside pipes the Ageas engineer viewed and is 
the likely cause of the damage being claimed for. So on the face of it, Ageas has 
fairly declined the claim under the terms of the policy.
But Ive also considered the subsequent reports Mr S has provided from Company 
A and Company B. Im not aware that Company B inspected the vehicle prior to 
repair or that it reviewed Ageas engineers report to give balance to both sides 
before making its findings.
I also note Company Bs findings are near verbatim to Company As report, 
suggesting an endorsement of its findings rather than its own view based on its 
own individual inspection. With all that in mind, it doesnt hold as much weight for 
me as our investigator placed on it in his view. So Ive focused more on Company 
As findings.
Company A say the damage is a result of a different drainage pipe to the one 
Ageas engineer looked at. And Mr S has provided a scatter diagram showing 
what he says is the correct pipe location.
Company A said while it was unusual for debris in the affected pipe to build up to 
the extent that they would block it, this can happen in situations where there is a 
storm and a large object (such as a leaf) lands over the entrance to this drain pipe, 
whilst at the same time there is a heavy downpour of rain that puts pressure on the 
object to hold it in place.
In its expert opinion thats what happened in Mr Ss case meaning the damage 
was caused by a one-off event  a storm, and so should be covered as 
accidental damage under the policy.
But unlike the Ageas report, Company A hasnt been able to provide us with any 
photos of the pipe it says caused the damage or evidence of the debris or 
material it found that caused the block in that pipe. It says this is because the 
pipe is so small it would require a specialist camera.
But I note that Ageas engineer disagrees with this. Having looked at the scatter 
diagram theyre essentially satisfied theyve viewed the correct pipes and 
managed to provide pictures of these  including the one Company A say was 
unable to be photographed.
Company A on the other hand, has provided a written opinion on what could have 
happened to block the pipe it thinks caused the damage, but Im not satisfied its 
provided persuasive supporting evidence to show this is most likely what did 
happen in Mr Ss case.
Im not a vehicle drainage expert, nor am I required to be to decide this case. To 
help make my decision I review all the evidence and information from both sides and place weight on the opinions of the relevant experts. And essentially in this 
case, I have two different expert opinions and it comes down to which one I think is 
more persuasive in this case.
With all this in mind, on balance of what Ive seen so far, I think Ageas engineers 
report is more persuasive for the reasons already explained and so I think its fair 
for Ageas to rely on it when considering Mr Ss claim.
It follows that based on what Ive seen so far, I think Ageas fairly declined the claim 
in line with the policy terms and I dont intend to direct it to do anything further in 
this case.
Ive considered all of Mr Ss points so far, including what hes said about Company 
B confirming the pipes had been checked eight months prior to the damage 
occurring and that this contradicts Ageas point that they werent regularly cleaned 
out.
But from what Ive seen, the email relating to this states that the mechanism 
chamber was checked for signs of water and no significant water was found. I dont 
think that statement evidences that the pipes were checked or that they were clear. 
So these points dont currently change my conclusion.
Both parties were given time to respond with any further comments or information theyd 
like me to consider before I issued a final decision. 
Ageas accepted the provisional findings. Mr S responded with several comments about 
why he didnt agree with the provisional findings. Ive considered his response in its entirety 
and summarised the key points below:
Ageas hasnt said what/if any knowledge its engineer has of Mr Ss vehicle model 
and he questions the engineers independence as theyre paid by Ageas.
In response to Company A and Company Bs written opinions about the cause of 
the damage being almost verbatim to one another, Mr S says these opinions were 
in actual fact drafted by him, and then read, edited and signed by Company A and 
Company B. 
Mr S says Company A and Company B are expert in their field, have no financial 
interest in the claim and as such are more independent than Ageas engineer.
Mr S disagrees that water or leaves can be seen in the Ageas pictures and says 
the debris Ageas engineer refers to arent relevant to the damage. He says a 
blocked pipe cannot be seen in Ageas pictures.
Mr S maintains the damage didnt happen gradually but was the result of a one-off 
event. He pointed to pictures we have on file that he says support this.
Mr S provided pictures of the insured vehicle which he says show its well 
maintained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision above. I say this because:
In my provisional decision, I set out what my role is in deciding this complaint and the 
fact that Ill review the information from both sides and place weight on the opinions 
of the relevant experts. 
I explained why, on balance, I thought Ageass engineers report, which included photos of what they said were debris and water build up in the affected area of the 
vehicle, was more persuasive. And Mr Ss comments in response to this havent 
changed my mind.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Ageas engineer failed to carry out an 
independent review of the damage being claimed for in this case. Simply being 
appointed by Ageas isnt a fair reason to conclude this. 
While I accept that Company A and Company B are experts in their field, Ive already 
explained why I didnt think their opinions were as persuasive. And the fact that Im 
now aware they didnt write their own opinions about the cause of the damage, but 
simply read, edited and signed what Mr S wrote, further undermines the weight I 
place on these.
I know Mr S feels strongly that Ageas engineer got it wrong and his claim should be 
paid. But ultimately, he hasnt provided enough evidence to persuade me that the 
damage happened in the way he says it did.
It follows, on balance of the information Ive seen, Im still more persuaded by 
Ageass findings on the damage, so Im satisfied it fairly declined the claim and I 
wont be directing it to do anything further.
I know this decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I think its a fair 
outcome for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman