DRN-3703767
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr F found two guitars being advertised through an online marketplace. The 
guitars were being sold for £1,100 in total. Mr F contacted the seller and got him to agree to 
reduce the price to £900. After receiving the guitars, Mr F had concerns and got them 
inspected. He was advised that one of the guitars was a fake and the other one had serious 
faults and was unusable.
As the seller declined to refund Mr F, he raised a fraud claim with HSBC.
HSBC investigated Mr Fs claim but declined to refund him. HSBC explained that, as Mr F 
received the goods and they werent as advertised, the purchase was a civil matter between 
him and the seller. As such, he wasnt entitled to a refund under the CRM Code.
Mr F wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator explained 
that HSBC werent required to give a warning, and that Mr F didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing the items or the seller were genuine. The investigator highlighted that Mr F 
didnt carry out any checks on the seller before paying for the guitars, despite the price being 
too good to be true.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion saying the deal wasnt too good to be true, 
and that is a subjective statement. Also, he didnt have the sellers name initially so couldnt 
do any research on him.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, and Ill explain why.
HSBC are a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Initially HSBC said Mr F wasnt entitled to a refund, as the matter was a civil dispute between 
him and the seller, which would mean hes not entitled to a refund under the CRM Code. 
However, its clear that the seller set out with the intention to deceive Mr F, as he was selling 
a fraudulent copy of a genuine guitar and a faulty guitar. The seller purposefully gave 
incorrect information about both of these guitars. So, Im satisfied that Mr F was the victim of 
a scam and that his payment is covered by the CRM Code.
But, under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can 
establish that*: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
 * there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr F had a reasonable basis to believe 
he was making a payment for genuine goods or service, or that the person he was dealing 
with was legitimate. I say this because:
The seller wouldnt give Mr F his first name, only his initial and surname. I dont 
believe a genuine seller would have concerns about sharing basic information with 
Mr F. Mr F only became aware of the sellers first name when he set up the seller as 
a new payee through his mobile banking.
The price that Mr F was paying for the guitars was too good to be true. During a call 
with us, Mr F told us that the guitars he purchased were worth around £1,300. 
However, the seller had listed them for £1,100 and Mr F was able to haggle the price 
lower to £900. This suggests Mr F was buying the guitars for approximately 40% 
lower than the expected price. I cant see that Mr F asked any questions as to why 
the price was so low initially, or why the seller was prepared to drop £200 off the 
listing price.
Overall, I think there were enough warning signs that Mr F shouldve done some basic 
checks before making the payment. Mr F has told us that doing a search on the seller using 
his first name and surname, provided information about previous fraudulent activity. 
However, that information was available and wouldve been found if Mr F had done the same 
check prior to making the payment. And, while Mr F says he didnt have the sellers full name 
initially, he became aware of his full name in setting the seller up as a new payee. So, he 
had the opportunity to do a check before completing the payment. For all of the reasons 
given, Im not persuaded that Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief, therefore HSBC can 
rely on the exception as a reason not to reimburse Mr F under the CRM Code.
But, Ive also considered whether HSBC met the standards set for them under the CRM 
Code. In this case, the payment Mr F made was for £900. Im not persuaded, based on the 
specifics of the payment, including its size and Mr Fs previous account activity, that HSBC 
shouldve identified a potential fraud risk and therefore werent required to provide an 
effective warning. On that basis, Im satisfied that HSBC has met the standards set for them. 
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not persuaded that I can fairly hold HSBC 
liable under the CRM Code.
Mr F has raised a concern about not being able to cancel his payment after hed made it to 
the seller. However, bank transfers involve an immediate transfer of funds, so there wouldnt 
be a facility for HSBC to cancel a payment that hes authorised and has left his account.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman