DRN-4133941
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society debited his account with £7,350 but only 
gave him the £5,000 in cash that he says he asked for.
What happened
Mr B says he wanted to buy a van for about £5,000. He called Nationwide on the morning of 
11 August 2022 to explain he wanted to take out this money in cash. He went to the branch 
and believed hed withdrawn and been given £5,000. It was only when he later checked his 
account that he saw that £7,350 was debited. Mr B is unhappy with the investigation about 
this by the branch and the different and inaccurate descriptions of the CCTV evidence given. 
And that he had to call a number of times to obtain this evidence. 
Nationwide said it didnt agree that Mr B had only been given £5,000. It said he had 
requested £7,350 and been given this. It relied on the withdrawal slips, its branch records 
and that the amount of cash in branch balanced. Nationwide said that this was confirmed by 
the CCTV. It accepted the delay in that CCTV being sent to Mr B. Nationwide also said that it 
hadnt needed to issue the new passbook on the account done at the time. It offered to pay 
him total compensation of £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Nationwide do anything more. Mr B had said he 
wanted to withdraw the money from an ISA but had been told hed need to transfer this to a 
savings account first. There were entries signed by him for the transfer and then the 
withdrawal for £7,350. Shed watched the CCTV and didnt think there was a bank error. Two 
packets of notes had been brought from the safe by a colleague of the cashier. One 
contained £5,000 in £20 notes. The other had £2,500 in £50 notes and the CCTV showed 
that three £50 notes were removed from this and placed into the till leaving £2,350. There 
was a period of about four seconds when the cashier was out of range of the CCTV. Mr B 
said he couldnt see what she was doing. Mr B was handed an envelope with the money, 
and shed have expected him to check what hed received. He had also been given a new 
passbook which would have shown the amount withdrawn. The compensation which she 
confirmed was £200 was reasonable for the service issues.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he has had to build 
his case and been presumed guilty. He had been pressing for an investigation by 
Nationwides security team or the police and neither had happened. The CCTV contradicted 
what the branch manager had said. The money hadnt been counted and it had left sight of 
the camera. He wanted questions asked of the branch of the 13 minutes he spent at the 
counter, and this wasnt acceptable procedure. The passbook was new and would have had 
to be held open to show the amounts. He provided comparisons of his signature to that on 
the slips provided by Nationwide and said that these differed. The four seconds the money 
was out of view was sufficient for the cashier say to put the missing money in the cupboard. 
He considered hed been offered £250 by Nationwide but said that this was a drop in the 
ocean compared to what hed lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely on a 
balance of probabilities. This service provides informal dispute resolution and if Mr B doesnt 
accept my decision he remains free to pursue this including with the relevant authorities 
subject to any relevant time limits.
I note that he told this service earlier that he had contacted a handwriting expert who he 
says would have required more information to reach a view. I appreciate he doesnt think he 
signed the slips: the implication being he thinks these werent genuine. Im afraid I dont have 
anything else to support that, and I consider these signed slips to be consistent with the 
other things that happened.
The CCTV has been provided to this service and so I can review the specific points made. I 
also take into account that there were two members of staff involved with this transaction 
and who could be seen signing branch documents during the process that have been  
provided. An extended and it seems from what Nationwide says unnecessary audit trail was 
created of the transfer between the accounts and then the withdrawal. This provided Mr B 
with the opportunity to notice if something was wrong especially as he was at the counter for 
that period. The two packets of notes were visible to him, and the three £50 notes taken out 
of one and placed in the till. He says he remembers being told one packet had £4,000 in £20 
notes that the other was to be £1,000. When he got home he says he had one packet with 
£5,000 in £20 notes.
I appreciate that there was a time when the cashier was out of sight of the CCTV camera but 
Im not clear she was out of sight of Mr B. It appears that she accessed a nearby cupboard 
to get an envelope. It is right that the moment when she put money into that envelope isnt 
captured. And that when she returned back to the counter she then put an elastic band 
around that envelope and handed it to Mr B. 
He didnt check this and expected this to be right. I cant know exactly what was in the 
envelope. He either thinks that this was a fraud or a mistake. I dont have supporting 
evidence for either. And clearly I cant know exactly what happened to the envelope after 
hed received it and when it was again not being captured by CCTV and whether an 
unknown third party could say have accessed it. 
I understand why Mr B feels that the investigation by Nationwide was insufficient and 
especially given the discrepancies he refers to about the CCTV. But he was always 
promised and received the CCTV after a number of calls and so he could see this. 
I take into account the cash and audit information provided by Nationwide all of which to me 
shows that £7,350 was requested and given out. As I said Im thinking about what is most 
likely. Im afraid having weighed the evidence and Mr Bs testimony carefully I dont find it 
most likely Nationwide made a mistake with this cash withdrawal. I know hell be very disappointed by this given as he says the time hes put into this and that this has become not 
only about the money but a matter of principle for him. Nationwide has recently confirmed 
that it offered to pay a total of £200 for the service aspects and I consider that to be 
reasonable and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Nationwide has made an offer to resolve the complaint which I think is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr B £200 as it 
has offered to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman