DRN-3452916
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, to cover her for trips worldwide. 
And on 5 March 2020 Mrs T departed for a holiday abroad, with her due to return to the UK 
on 19 March 2020.
However, Mrs T came home from her holiday early. Shes explained that on 13 March 2020 
the country she was in announced that it was closing its borders to all visitors, due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. And the governor of the area she was in was shutting this too. 
Mrs T explained that tourist attractions were closing as well  and other travellers were 
receiving communications from their airline providers, about cancelled flights. Mrs T said she 
contacted her airline, who told her to head to the airport as soon as possible, as flights were 
being cancelled, and it would need to repatriate Mrs T on any flight where seats became 
available.
Mrs T therefore went to airport and got on an earlier flight that originally planned. She got on 
a flight on 14 March 2020 and returned home.
Mrs T then made a claim under her travel insurance policy, for having had to curtail her 
holiday. IPA looked into the claim and declined it. It said Mrs T was covered from curtailment 
under her policy, but only in certain situations. And it said the situation Mrs T found herself in 
wasnt covered. So, it wouldnt be settling her claim.
Mrs T didnt feel this was fair. She complained to IPA, and it maintained its position. As Mrs 
T remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She reviewed 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy and noted that they covered curtailment of a trip  
in certain circumstances. But there wasnt cover under the policy for the circumstances Mrs 
T was in. So, she didnt think IPA had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said that the terms of her policy provided cover for curtailment where 
other regulatory authorities had recommended evacuation. And Mrs T noted that the 
governor of the area she was staying in was closing down the area  including all public 
areas. So, she felt this covered meant the policy covered her for coming home early. Mrs T 
reiterated that her airline said to come to the airport. And highlighted that she didnt want to 
return to the UK early. 
Our investigator said they had looked at the executive orders being issued by the governor, 
and this didnt tell non-residents to they needed to be evacuated. So, whilst the airline may 
have told Mrs T that, Mrs T still hadnt met the terms under the policy.
Mrs T still didnt agree. Because Mrs T didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether IPA, in declining this claim, acted in line with these requirements. And 
Im satisfied it did.
Mrs Ts policy does provide up to £2,000 for her proportion of irrecoverable, unused travel 
and accommodations costs, and pre-paid charges she was contracted to pay, if she needed 
to cut short her trip. But, as is usual with policies of this nature, the reason for curtailing the 
trip needed to be on of those listed in the policy, for the cover to apply.
Ive looked at the reasons listed in Mrs Ts policy booklet. I can see these include reasons 
such as needing to return home due to the death of a close relative or serious damage to 
Mrs Ts home. None of which applied to Mrs Ts situation. So, Im satisfied there was no 
cover for curtailment in Mrs Ts circumstances, in the cover she purchased.
The policy booklet does have a section for travel disruption cover  which discusses 
curtailment in additional circumstances. But this was an optional section of cover, and 
Mrs Ts policy schedule doesnt show she paid for this.
However, IPA extended curtailment cover for its customers, to help provide support, in the 
face of the pandemic. And this provided cover for curtailment of a trip where:
The Travel Advice Unit of the FCDO (or other regulatory authority) are recommending 
evacuation from the country or specific area you have travelled to, providing the advice 
come into force after your left your home to begin your trip.
So, Im aware that is Mrs T did curtail her trip because of the above, the policy would 
respond. With this in mind, Ive needed to think about whether Mrs Ts reason for returning 
home is in line with the above.
So, Ive looked to see whether the FCDO or other regulatory authority were recommending 
evacuation from the area, or country Mrs T was in. And I cant see they were. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. Mrs T 
was already on holiday at this point. Ive looked at both the FCDO information, as well as 
information from the regulatory authority for the country Mrs T was in, for the time Mrs T was 
on her trip. And Im aware there were no evacuation recommendation during this period. I 
can see the regulatory authority in the country Mrs T was in didnt place any restrictions on 
UK citizens until 16 March 2020  and that was only in respect of them entering the country. 
There wasnt any evacuation recommendation for those already there. And the FCDO didnt 
advise all travellers to return home from abroad until 23 March 2020. 
Given the above, Im satisfied the FCDO or other regulatory authority didnt recommend 
evacuation from the area, or country, Mrs T was in, at that point that she curtailed her trip. I 
appreciate Mrs T said the airline told her to come to the airport  and go home. And that may 
have been the case. But the policy doesnt cover advise by the airline in that respect. 
Because there was no evacuation recommendation at the time Mrs T curtailed her trip, and 
no other covered reason under Mrs Ts policy, for cutting her trip short, Im satisfied IPA 
acted fairly in declining Mrs Ts claim. So, Im not requiring it to do anything differently. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman