DRN-1517095
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
What happened
This complaint is about two PPI policies taken out by Mr and Mrs B in connection with a 
mortgage in 2005, and a further advance in 2006. The 2005 policy provided cover for Mr B if 
he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The 2006 policy provided 
the same sort of cover for both Mr and Mrs B.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policies?
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they weren't told the PPI was optional and that Halifax didn't give them a 
proper choice about buying the policies. I've noted everything Mr and Mrs B have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and 
Halifax when the policies were sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Halifax has provided copies of Mr and Mrs B's 2005 mortgage offer and 2006 further 
advance offer. In both documents the PPI is listed as 'Optional insurance'. And there is 
nothing in either document to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the 
borrowing Mr and Mrs B wanted.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs B have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Halifax didn't make them aware the PPI was optional.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policies and it doesnt look like they were 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I 
say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policies given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B say Mr B was entitled to statutory sick pay when the 2005 policy was 
taken out, and that they had substantial savings at the time. But I see that the notes 
of Halifax's discussion with Mr and Mrs B suggest that Mr B wasn't entitled to 
employer sick pay. Mr and Mrs B haven't been able to provide evidence of the 
savings they say they had - which isn't unreasonable given the amount of time that's 
passed. But Halifax's records of Mr and Mrs B's finances at the time show that they 
had other loans and unsecured credit at the time they arranged the mortgage. So I 
don't think I can safely say that the savings they say they had would've been readily 
available to them if they were off work sick. And having the policy in place would've 
meant Mr and Mrs B could've used their savings to cover other expenses. So I think 
Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the 2005 policy. The 2006 policy 
covered Mrs B as well as Mr B, and Mrs B says she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs B's occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean 
Mr and Mrs B could use Mrs B's work-related benefits to pay for other expenses. So I 
still think the 2006 policy would've been useful to Mr and Mrs B if things went wrong. 
Mr and Mrs B werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policies 
exclusions and limitations.
The PPI cost was set out in the 2005 mortgage offer and 2006 further advance offer. 
So it seems Mr and Mrs B knew what they would be paying for the PPI and found it 
acceptable.  The policies were competitively priced and had reasonable benefits. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policies and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr and Mrs B weren't affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policies.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman