DRN-3468238
The complaint
Mr O complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr O was given a loan by AvantCredit in June 2015. He borrowed £6,500 that he 
agreed to repay in 60 monthly instalments. Mr O told AvantCredit that he intended to 
use the loan to consolidate some other debts. Mr O appears to have faced some 
problems making his repayments, but he ultimately repaid the loan earlier than 
planned, in November 2018.
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mr O before it agreed the loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and used some industry statistical data to estimate 
Mr Os normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much he was 
repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. And it used a 
bank statement to verify the income that Mr O said he received.
Mr O was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that 
AvantCredit wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Os financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that 
AvantCredits checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of AvantCredits checks to see 
whether it made a fair lending decision.
 
AvantCredits credit check showed that Mr O was making extensive use of other 
credit. When he asked for the loan he already had four other loans, four credit card or 
mail order accounts, and a substantial overdraft on his current account. The balance 
of each of Mr Os credit cards was above his agreed limit. So I think it would have 
been right for AvantCredit to be concerned that Mr O might be facing some problems 
managing his money.
In total Mr Os outstanding loan and credit card debts amounted to just over £6,000, 
and his typical monthly repayments were just over £460. But Mr O told AvantCredit 
that he wanted to use its loan to refinance those other debts. Since the amount that 
Mr O asked to borrow was a little more than his total outstanding credit, I think it 
would have been reasonable for AvantCredit to accept his explanation of how he 
would use the loan. And by using the loan in that way Mr O would be able to reduce 
his credit expenditure from the current £460 per month to around £170 per month.
There is no doubt that, had Mr O told AvantCredit that he wanted to use its loan for 
other spending, I would have concluded that he wouldnt have been able to repay it in 
a sustainable manner. But, although I accept taking the loan would potentially mean 
he would be making repayments for a longer time, Mr O was likely to significantly 
reduce his monthly outgoings.
I dont know how much detail Mr O provided to AvantCredit when he gave it a copy of 
his bank statement to verify his income. But Ive looked at a copy of his bank 
statement to review the information AvantCredit might have seen. From that 
statement it is clear that Mr O was making use of short-term lending. And he was 
often using loans of that nature to finance his repayments on other borrowing. That is 
clearly an unsustainable way of managing his finances. But by using the loan from 
AvantCredit to repay all his outstanding debt, Mr O could break out of that borrowing 
cycle.
So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to accept Mr Os 
explanation of how he intended to use the loan. And by consolidating all his other 
debts with the new loan Mr O could significantly reduce his monthly outgoings. So 
I dont currently think AvantCredit was wrong to give this loan to Mr O.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. AvantCredit hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr O has provided 
some additional information about his circumstances at the time he took the loan, and when 
it was repaid. Although I am only summarising here what Mr O has said I want to reassure 
him that I have carefully read, and considered, his entire response.
Mr O says that at the time he took the loan he had recently entered started a new 
relationship. As his new partner had a teenage son, and a poor credit history, Mr O says it 
fell to him to finance the furniture required for their new rented home. And he says that he 
was only able to repay the loan early following the death of his mother, and the receipt of an 
inheritance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to tell Mr O that the additional information he has provided hasnt caused me to 
alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I would like to provide some 
further commentary on the points that he has raised.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I have no doubts that if Mr O had told AvantCredit 
that he intended to use the loan for additional spending, such as the new furniture he has 
now told us about, I would have thought it irresponsible to lend to him. But that wasnt what 
he told AvantCredit at the time. He said the loan would be used to refinance his other 
borrowing. I think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to rely on what Mr O said. And using the 
loan in that way would have undoubtedly improved Mr Os short-term financial position.I was very sorry to hear about the death of Mr Os mother. But the fact Mr O repaid the loan 
early doesnt persuade me that AvantCredit was either right or wrong to provide the loan in 
the first place. My assessment of that is based on what AvantCredit, and Mr O, reasonably 
knew about his finances at the time the loan was agreed.
So, in summary, I think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to accept Mr Os explanation of 
how he intended to use the loan. And by consolidating all his other debts with the new loan 
Mr O could significantly reduce his monthly outgoings. So I dont think AvantCredit was 
wrong to give this loan to Mr O.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against AvantCredit of UK, LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman