DRN-4407894
The complaint
Miss M complains that Scottish Widows Limited has delayed her combining her two Personal 
Pension Plans (PPPs) into one policy. Miss M says this may have caused her a financial 
loss and the delays caused her distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss M held two PPPs with Scottish Widows. The first policy, ending 0875, was set up on 
1 September 2018. The second policy, ending 4548, was set up on 1 October 2020.
In June 2022, Miss M called Scottish Widows because she noted she had two policies when 
she should only have one. Miss M was concerned she could be financially disadvantaged as 
by paying two sets of management fees. Miss M tried to submit the form needed to combine 
her two policies several times between June and September 2022 without success. She 
called Scottish Widows again in September 2022 to complain about the poor service she 
received, but did not receive a final response from Scottish Widows. So, Miss M referred her 
complaint to our Service in November 2022.
One of our Investigators contacted Scottish Widows for more information. In the meantime, 
Miss M let us know that, in January 2023, Scottish Widows sent her a form to transfer one 
pension into another, but that the form was wrong and missing information. When Scottish 
Widows responded to our Investigator in February 2023, it said Miss M called them on 
2 September 2022 to complain because she could not submit her application to transfer one 
of her policies into the other online. Scottish Widows should have sent her the right form on 
3 September 2022. Instead, it took over four months to send the right form to Miss M, and 
Scottish Widows accepted it sent her poorly written letters. Scottish Widows wanted to make 
sure Miss Ms complaint was resolved before offering her compensation, but it was prepared 
to put things right.
Having considered the evidence available, our Investigator said there was no evidence to 
suggest Ms M applied for two pensions rather than one  it was likely a mistake by Scottish 
Widows that the second policy ending 4548 was set up. Contributions paid into the second 
policy ending 4548 should have been paid into the policy ending 0875. To put things right, 
our Investigator said Scottish Widows should transfer the pension contributions paid into the 
policy ending 4548 into the policy ending 0875. It should also pay Miss M £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by trying to fix this matter.
Scottish Widows accepted our Investigators opinion in March 2023 but explained it would 
take a long time to de-invest and re-invest her funds back into the original PPP. It thought 
the best thing to do was to carry out a full fund transfer. After some back and forth between 
our Investigator, Miss M and Scottish Widows, our Investigator told Miss M the investment 
funds for both PPPs are the same, and if both were merged, the fee would remain the same 
as the charge was a percentage of the policy value. So, Miss M was charged the same 
regardless of whether she had one or two policies. Miss M accepted our Investigators 
opinion in May 2023 and our Investigator asked Scottish Widows to settle the complaint as 
agreed. However, Scottish Widows did not combine the pensions or pay Miss M the £200 
compensation as our Investigator had recommended it do so by October 2023, so this was 
referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator, for the same reasons.
It is unclear why Miss Ms PPP ending 4548 was set up and Scottish Widows has provided 
no explanation. So, I agree with our Investigator it was likely set up in error and contributions 
paid to the PPP ending 4548 should have been paid into the PPP ending 0875. Scottish 
Widows has accepted our Investigators recommendation but failed to carry it out. So, Ill set 
out what Scottish Widows should do below.
Putting things right
I note Scottish Widows says Miss M is not disadvantaged by holding two policies instead of 
one because the charges applied to both policies are based on the total funds held, so would 
be the same regardless of whether the total funds are held in one or two policies. I know 
Miss M is concerned that this might have caused her a loss, but hasnt provided any 
evidence of this beyond her concern. So, in the absence of any evidence that having two 
policies has caused Miss M a financial loss, Scottish Widows should transfer the funds held 
in Miss Ms policy ending 0875 into her PPP ending 0875, as it has already agreed to do. 
Im satisfied £200 fairly recognises the time and trouble caused to Miss M in trying to sort 
this out. I am mindful this matter has gone on long after Miss M referred her complaint to our 
Service, but I am unable to consider the distress and inconvenience caused after she 
referred her complaint to our Service. Any ongoing trouble and upset caused after 2 
November 2022 would have to be considered as part of a new complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Scottish Widows Limited should put things right by doing 
what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman