DRN-1456259
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from BUPA Insurance Limited, after he made 
a claim for treatment. 
What happened
Mr C was the beneficiary of his employer's private medical insurance group scheme. He 
made a claim on his policy as he needed to visit a podiatrist. BUPA gave him details of three 
podiatrists he could use. And Mr C had treatment with one of those podiatrists. However, 
following the treatment, the provider chased Mr C directly for an outstanding balance of 
around £125.
Mr C said he felt embarrassed due to the dispute over payment, and said he no longer 
wanted to see the original podiatrist for his follow-up appointments. He said this meant he 
had to go to a different podiatrist for consultations and had to pay another £100 excess. He 
also said he's been told by the new podiatrist he shouldn't have had the original treatment 
because he's diabetic. 
BUPA settled the outstanding balance for the first treatment Mr C received under his BUPA 
policy. And it paid Mr C £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. The group policy 
Mr C was part of has since been cancelled. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought that BUPA had acted 
reasonably and made Mr C a fair offer of compensation. In summary, she thought BUPA had 
done what it could to help and thought it wasnt responsible for Mr C's choice to visit a 
different podiatrist who was located further away. Mr C didn't agree this was fair and asked 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm not upholding Mr C's complaint for the following reasons. 
Mr C was given a choice of podiatrists when he made a claim. It was his decision to 
visit the particular doctor he saw. And I think BUPA acted reasonably and in line with 
the information Mr C provided.
 
BUPA isn't responsible for the standard of care provided by a doctor. If Mr C thinks 
that the doctor he saw shouldn't have completed the treatment, he'll need to raise a 
complaint with the doctor or the appropriate professional body. 
 I think that once BUPA was aware of the issue with the fees it took reasonable steps 
to sort things out. It contacted the provider to find out more information and ultimately 
paid the outstanding balance so that Mr C wasn't caught in the middle of the dispute 
about fees. I think that was reasonable. 
 
After BUPA contacted the provider, Mr C unfortunately received a further 
communication from the provider, again chasing him for the outstanding balance. 
BUPA apologised to Mr C for this and increased the compensation it had offered 
from £50 to £200. I can see how receiving further contact about payment would have 
been inconvenient and frustrating for Mr C. And I think the amount BUPA offered to 
recognise this was sufficient. 
 
Mr C took the decision to see a different podiatrist. I appreciate the second podiatrist 
is further away from where he lives, and he's had to pay a further excess. But, I don't 
think that's as a result of anything BUPA did. Mr C could have returned to the same 
podiatrist, as the bill was ultimately settled. In any event, as the BUPA policy was 
cancelled by Mr C's employer, he'd have always had to pay a further excess before 
accessing further treatment as his insurer had changed.
Overall I think the £200 compensation BUPA has offered, in addition to settling the 
bill, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I'm not upholding this complaint and I make no award against 
BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman