DRN-4110271
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Santander UK Plc dealt with his claim for money back in 
relation to payments hed made for treatment using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr S made various payments totalling around £21,000 in 2018 and 2019 to an institute in 
Panama that carries out stem cell treatment. Ill call the institute P. Mr S paid for two sets of 
stem cell treatment for his son, who was a minor at the time. Mr Ss son has a complex 
disability that caused developmental problems. His condition wasnt improving so Mr S 
decided to seek treatment abroad in the hope it could be improved. Mr S says P told him the 
treatment would help his condition and gradually make him better. The treatment offered by 
P was not available in the United Kingdom. Both sets of treatment cost around $14,000 USD 
and they included:
Treatment-related medical services and facilities.
Treatment-related laboratory services.
6-night hotel stay.
Airport arrival and transportation service.
P accepted Mr Ss son for treatment, and he attended the clinic to have it carried out during 
a week in October 2018 and a week in May 2019. Prior to treatment P gave Mr S a service 
contract, consent form, and treatment schedule. Mr S says the treatments havent worked at 
all and, if anything, have worsened the condition. He tells us hes tried to contact P on many 
occasions, but it was not interested in helping. Mr S feels let down and scammed. 
Unhappy with the lack of progress with P, Mr S contacted Santander in mid-2020 to put in a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He says P misled him and gave 
him false hope. 
Santander didnt uphold the claim. It said it couldnt conclude a misrepresentation had 
occurred because P said in the contract that the response varies from patient to patient and 
that unfortunately some may not see any changes to their condition. 
Mr S complained about Santanders response to his claim. And he referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
any of the paperwork supplied gave any guarantee the treatment would be successful. She 
also checked Ps website and couldnt find any guarantees on there either. She said Mr S 
paid for the treatment and received the services. Overall, she couldnt establish thered been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation that Santander should be liable for so didnt make 
any recommendations. 
Mr S was unhappy with the investigators outcome. He reiterated he thought hed been 
scammed by P and that hed been charged for fake therapy. As things couldnt be resolved, 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr S and Santander that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
I also want to say Im very sorry to hear about all that Mr S and his son have been through. 
He paid a substantial amount of money for two sets of treatment. He says this is going to 
leave him in debt for a long time, and that the treatment hasnt worked. I cant imagine how 
he must feel. 
What I need to consider is whether Santander  as a provider of financial services  has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ss request for getting his money back. 
Its important to note Santander isnt the supplier. Ive gone on to think about the specific 
card protections that are available. In situations like this, Santander can consider assessing 
a claim under section 75 or raising a chargeback. 
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Mr S to make a like claim against Santander 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it had with him for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain 
conditions that need to be met for section 75 to apply. From what Ive seen, those conditions 
have been met. While the treatment was for Mr Ss son, he was a minor and I think Mr S is a 
contracting party. Mr S signed the consent forms. The payments were made direct to P, so I 
think the necessary relationships exist under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. 
Furthermore, both sets of treatment are within the relevant financial limits for a claim to be 
considered under section 75. 
The service contracts Ive seen say that P and Mr S agree the contract is subject to the laws 
of the Republic of Panama. 
In the UK, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says certain terms are to be treated as 
included in consumer contracts. And it says services must be carried out with reasonable 
care and skill. I dont know whether Panamanian law says something similar. But even if I 
assume it does for the purposes of this decision, I dont think it was unfair of Santander to 
decline Mr Ss claim based on the evidence Mr S supplied. 
Mr S says P misrepresented the treatment to him. And that he was given false hope. A 
misrepresentation for the purposes of this complaint is a false statement of fact by P that 
persuaded Mr S to enter into the contract. I dont know what was spoken about between 
Mr S and P, so its difficult for me to be able to reach firm conclusions. In situations like this, 
its often helpful to see what the documentary evidence says. Like our investigator pointed 
out I have to bear in mind the consent form says the treatment is novel. And that it might 
improve the patients condition to an extent. But the degree of response, if any, varies from 
patient to patient. The service contract doesnt provide any guarantees. None of the email 
exchanges Ive seen between P and Mr S indicate the treatment is guaranteed to be 
successful. Ps website doesnt say this either. It says some patients dont improve at all 
after treatment. While I sympathise with the situation, Ive not seen enough evidence the service was 
misrepresented by P. So I dont find Santander acted unfairly by declining the claim on that 
basis. 
Ive also thought about whether theres sufficient evidence of a breach of contract. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mr Ss son received the treatment, the hotel and airport services. Ive not 
been shown the treatment wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill. So I dont find 
Santander acted unfairly by not considering a claim for breach of contract. 
For completeness, I also dont think Santander acted unfairly by not pursuing the claim by 
chargeback because, from what I can see, the claim was brought well out of time. 
In all the circumstances, Im very sorry to hear the treatment hasnt worked for Mr Ss son. 
But I dont find I have the grounds to direct Santander to take any action because I dont 
consider it was given enough evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation it would 
be liable for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman