DRN-3836611
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about HDI Global SEs refusal of a claim for business interruption 
cover under her business insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented in this complaint but I will refer to Mrs C throughout for ease.
What happened
Mrs C runs a pub. She made a claim under her policy with HDI after she was forced to close 
as part of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
HDI refused the claim, as it said the claim was not covered. HDI said cover can only be 
provided where a business has had to close following an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises and it wasnt satisfied this was the case. 
Mrs C is very unhappy about this. She has provided evidence that two customers 
(Customer 1 and Customer 2) who were at the premises on 19 March 2020, were ill with 
Covid-19 shortly afterwards, so she says there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises before she was required to close.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and initially recommended it be upheld. She 
considered Mrs C had established an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises and so said 
the claim should be met. However, the Investigator said the policy would only cover losses 
from the date of closure in March 2020 to July 2020 when pubs were allowed to reopen. 
Mrs C did not accept the Investigators assessment that indemnity should end when the pub 
reopened in July 2020, as she says she was not able to open fully; she was required to 
restrict opening hours and there were other restrictions which meant business was still 
interrupted until January 2021. 
HDI doesnt accept this either. It agreed with Mrs C that any indemnity period would continue 
until the business was no longer affected by the insured peril. However, HDI does not accept 
that there is a valid claim, as it says there was no proven occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises. HDI says Mrs Cs losses were caused by Government intervention, not by an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises, which is what is required by the policy. It also 
disputes that either of the customers were diagnosed with Covid-19 and says, even if they 
were and the case at the premises could be linked with the Governments decision to close 
pubs, that decision must at the least follow later in time than the occurrence of Covid-19 at 
the premises. HDI says the customers of the pub say they first exhibited symptoms of Covid-
19 on 21 and 22 March 2020 and the decision by the Government to close the premises was 
made on 20 March 2020, which was prior to the onset of symptoms by either of them. 
Something Mrs C was not aware of cannot have caused her to close. 
The Investigator considered the matter again and concluded that without further evidence of 
Customer 1 and Customer 2s presence at the pub at the relevant time (such as receipts, 
photos or phone or social media messages) there was not sufficient evidence that Customer 
1 and Customer 2 had been at the premises before the Governments decision to require 
pubs to close. She therefore stated that she did not consider the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mrs C is very unhappy with the Investigators revised assessment. Mrs C says the solicitors 
that acted for HDI in dealing with the claim did not dispute that Customer 1 and Customer 2 
had been at the premises on 19 March 2020. The final response letter from them stated: 
From the outset, we must explicitly state that our client did not ask, or require, the 
statements from  [two witnesses to say the customers were at the premises]. We 
understand these statements were provided only because you believed  [we] would not 
accept your word  On our review of the correspondence, there was no basis for this 
concern.
Mrs C says it is wrong for us to introduce additional factors to obstruct the claim, when this 
fact has been accepted by HDI and is not in dispute. Mrs C also says that the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a booklet with guidance on proving the presence of Covid-
19 and the evidence it said would be required was statistical and nowhere does it mention 
needing receipts or social media posts; and other insurers have accepted the same 
evidence as provided here as proof. Mrs C says the Investigator has bowed to pressure form 
HDI. 
Mrs C was told any further evidence she could provide would be considered but nothing has 
been provided. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Cs business. But I am currently not minded to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this 
complaint. 
The policy 
Business interruption insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things 
which might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy terms 
and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if HDI has acted 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining     
Mrs Cs claim.
The section relevant to Mrs Cs claim is an extension to the section of the policy covering 
Business interruption.
The relevant extension says:
The liability of the insurer includes loss as insured by this Section resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of...
1) Premises Closure or Restrictions
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises.The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as being:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) Food or drink poisoning
b) Any human infectious or contagious disease an outbreak of which the competent 
public authority has stipulated should be notified to them.
And Premises is defined as being the buildings and the land inside the boundaries at the 
risk address stated in the Schedule.
Businesses like Mrs Cs were told on 20 March 2020 theyd need to close as soon as they 
reasonably could and could not open the next day. Covid-19 is a contagious and/or 
infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Mrs Cs claim, the closure or 
restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of Covid-19 occurring at the 
premises.
Mrs C has said that HDI itself did not dispute that there had been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, when explaining its decision not to pay the claim. But in its submissions to us HDI 
said witness statements have been provided  to corroborate that  [Customer 1 and 
Customer 2] were at the premises on 19 March 2020. However, no contemporaneous 
documentary evidence from the policyholders themselves, such as payment receipts, has 
been produced to support the fact that these two individuals, together with  [Customer 1 
and Customer2] were at the premises on that date. 
Therefore, in my view HDI did argue there had not been an occurrence of Covid-19. 
In any event, to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied there had been an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Was there most likely an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises? 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter at hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time. 
The evidence provided by Mrs C can be summarised as follows: 
Thursday 19 March 2020 Customer 1 and Customer 2 attended her pub.
Customer 1 became unwell on 21 March 2020 with Covid-19 symptoms, including 
a high temperature and cough. 
Customer 2 became unwell on 22 March 2022 with similar symptoms and after 
deteriorating was hospitalised on 5 April 2020. 
Mrs C has provided a hospital admission form dated 5 April 2020 for Customer 2, 
which records shed been ill for two weeks. Customer 2 was tested for Covid-19 
while in hospital and this came back negative, however, the hospital discharge 
form says she was diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia.
Two other customers (The Witnesses) have provided statements both dated 5 
May 2021. The statements are the same, except one witness says he is a regular 
and the other says he visits the pub virtually every evening. Both witnesses say 
that they were at the pub on 19 March 2020 and saw Customer 1 and Customer 2 there that evening. They both say they can confirm they were there as it was 
common knowledge that pubs were shortly going to be locked down by the 
Government.  
In my opinion, the medical evidence supports that Customer 2 had Covid-19. I do not think 
there is any reason to doubt the diagnosis, even if the PCR test came back negative. The 
discharge form confirms that the hospital diagnosed her with Covid-19. I am therefore 
satisfied there is enough evidence to say it is more likely than not that Customer 2 had 
Covid-19.
The Supreme Court in the Financial Conduct Authority Business Interruption Insurance test 
case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an individual becomes diagnosable 
with the disease. The guidance from, amongst others, the World Health Organisation, 
suggests a person commonly becomes diagnosable around 1-3 days after infection. It is 
then likely that another few days will pass before a person displays any symptoms of the 
disease. Again, using the WHO guidance this is commonly around 5-6 days after infection. 
And then it apparently often takes another week or so before a person is hospitalised. This is 
an indication of what might be expected in an individual, the progression of the disease in 
each individual would likely be different. 
Customer 2 was hospitalised on 5 April 2020, having been ill for two weeks, which would 
mean her symptoms likely started on 22 March 2020. As such she is likely to have been 
diagnosable with the disease on 22 March 2020 and also up to three days earlier on 19 
March 2022, which is the date she said she was on Mrs Cs premises. 
Customer 1 and Customer 2 have provided statements to say they were at the premises on 
19 March 2020 and The Witnesses have also provided statements to say they saw them 
there. 
The Witnesses were both regulars that knew Customer 1 and Customer 2, who they said 
were also both regulars at the pub. The Witnesses both say they know they saw Customer 1 
and Customer 2 at the premises on 19 March 2022, as it was common knowledge the 
public house was shortly going into lockdown. 
However, the UK Government had already advised people to avoid unnecessary contact 
earlier that week and there had been anticipation of restrictions before 19 March 2020. I also 
note that The Witnesses statements were prepared over a year later. Therefore to be 
satisfied that it was that date, and not any other date that all four regulars were in the pub 
together, I think it is necessary to have some other independent direct evidence to 
corroborate their testimony. 
There is no direct evidence to show that The Witnesses or Customer 1 and Customer 2 were 
at the pub on 19 March 2020, such as receipts, bank statements or credit card statements 
showing any transactions at the pub on that date or other contemporaneous corroborating 
evidence such as phone or social media messages.
Mrs C has said the FCA guidance on establishing Covid-19 (Final Guidance: Business 
interruption insurance test case - proving the presence of coronavirus (Covid-19) preleased 
in March 2021) doesnt mention such evidence. The guidance referred to was in relation to 
policies which required an occurrence of Covid-19 within a certain radius of the insured 
premises, and not the term that is in Mrs Cs policy which requires an individual case at the 
premises. Therefore statistics about local cases would be relevant to those other policies. I 
do not think that anything in that guidance changes the normal burden of proof in 
establishing an insurance claim. In this case, it is required that the claimant can establish 
that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. I have taken into account the testimony of Mrs C, Customer 1 and Customer 2 and The 
Witnesses, but I dont consider there is enough evidence to show that there was most likely 
a case of Covid-19 at Mrs Cs premises that was an equally concurrent cause of the 
lockdown. Ill explain why. 
Was a case of Covid-19 at Ls restaurant an equal cause of the lockdown? 
The decision that pubs were required to close was announced in a speech on Friday 20 
March 2020. The instruction was for pubs to close that night and not to reopen on 21 March 
2020. So any occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises would have to have happened before 
the Governments decision to introduce regulations on 20 March 2020. It follows that for me 
to find that Customer 2s case of Covid-19 was an equally concurrent cause of the 
Governments decision to introduce the Covid-19 regulations, I would need to see that this 
had occurred before the Governments decision on 20 March 2020 and that Customer 1 had 
been at Mrs Cs premises before that time. 
Both Mrs C and HDI are aware of the approach we are taking on this issue and so I wont set 
out the arguments in detail here. 
Ive concluded on the evidence that Ive seen that Customer 2 is likely to have been 
diagnosable with Covid-19 on 19 March 2020. Ive explained that to uphold this complaint I 
would also need to be satisfied that she was at Mrs Cs pub before the Governments 
decision to introduce the Covid-19 restrictions on 20 March 2020. 
But there is no additional direct evidence to support that Customer 2 was at Mrs Cs 
premises on 19 March 2020, such as, for example, payment receipts or text messages. So, 
on the evidence provided to me, I do not consider that I can fairly conclude that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the premises on 19 March 2020, such as to find that it was an equally 
concurrent cause of the Governments lockdown regulations. 
It follows that I do not consider that HDIs decision to turn down Mrs Cs claim was an unfair 
one and I dont intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate that this will come as a 
considerable disappointment to Mrs C. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman