DRN-3851934
The complaint
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr B complains about a switch from his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) plan to 
another SIPP. He says he was advised by B K Luker Financial Services Ltd trading as Luxe 
Capital (Luxe) to move his SIPP in December 2019 and this advice was unsuitable. Mr B 
would like to be put back in the same position as if the transfer had not taken place.
Mr B is being represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr B.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr B received a telephone call from an Adviser at Luxe offering a review 
of his retirement planning needs. At the time, he held a SIPP with Aegon that Luxe 
subsequently advised he move into a SIPP with Davies & Co. The Adviser recommended a 
discretionary fund management (DFM) portfolio. At the same time, Luxe would then provide 
an ongoing service to him. 
At the time the recommendation was made, Mr B was aged 57 and married. The fact-find 
(FF) indicated he was a Watchmaker with no savings or other investments and that he 
owned his home which had a mortgage of £270,000 on it. The Aegon plan had a transfer 
value of £34,661 and his desired retirement age was noted as 75. His wifes details and 
personal financial information was not collected. 
Luxe carried out a risk profiling exercise and determined Mr B had a high medium (or 7 out 
of 10) attitude to risk (ATR). Luxe wrote to Mr B on 26 November 2019 and recommended 
that he transfer his Aegon plan into a new SIPP on 5 December 2019. 
The SIPP was established on 10 January 2020 and the transferred funds were invested into 
a discretionary portfolio as follows:
39% Fixed Income
56% Global Equity
5% private equities and cash
In March 2021, Mr B submitted a complaint to Luxe. He told them, in summary, the original 
advice to transfer from Aegon to the SIPP was unsuitable and didnt take full out account of 
his circumstances. He didnt feel a bespoke discretionary arrangement was either necessary 
or suitable for him.
Luxe issued its final response letter on 19 May 2021, declining his complaint. They stated 
they had explained to him from the outset they were providing restricted financial advice. 
They went on to say:
Complete disclosure of their restricted proposition and the fees were made upfront and in 
writing. They said Mr B was happy to proceed at the time.
The fact-find meeting with Mr B was complimentary with no obligation on his part to 
proceed with Luxe.
They had completed a detailed know your customer exercise to determine Mr Bs 
personal and financial circumstances including his objectives, priorities, affordability, his 
ATR and his capacity for loss (CFL).
Luxe had fully complied with COBS (the Regulators Conduct of Business rules).
The investment Luxe made was in line with his stated ATR and CFL along with his stated 
objectives and time horizon.
The ATR tool that Luxe used has been independently approved and is used industry 
wide.
They feel all the risks, charges and drawbacks were clearly explained by the Adviser at 
the time of the advice.
Dissatisfied, Mr B brought his complaint to this service on 20 June 2021.
Luxe told this service they believed Mr Bs case was without merit and reiterated the points 
they made in their complaint resolution letter.
In August 2021, Luxe advised Mr B to move out of the Davies & Co SIPP and into an Aviva 
Personal Pension. The Adviser recommended Mr B invest in Avivas Investors Multi-Asset 
Fund Plus III. According to Avivas fund factsheet, it has a risk measurement score of 5 out 
of 7. By this point Mr Bs SIPP had reduced in value to £28,381 and the Adviser had 
determined his ATR was now a medium.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators in January 2022. He concluded 
that Luxe had treated Mr B unfairly. He wasnt satisfied the transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests. He also said, in summary:
He wasnt convinced given the size of Mr Bs pension fund that he needed someone 
managing the monies on a bespoke basis.
He felt Mr Bs objective of the potential for greater growth, couldve been met by staying 
where he was and simply switching funds.
Advisers must ensure recommendations are suitable and its not enough to simply 
explain the new plan would cost more without proving the new plan is in the best 
interests of the customer.
He didnt feel the alternative options were properly discounted.
Luxe however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, they said they take 
suitability and treating customers fairly extremely seriously within their firm and found the 
decision unjust. They also said the following:They felt the advice was suitable because it had been independently checked by their 
third-party compliance provider.
The decision to switch was driven solely by Mr B who was already invested and was 
attracted by the potential of higher growth.
They said it met his objectives, he fully understood the proposition and was extremely 
keen to proceed.
They pointed out that Mr B had been given ample time to read and reflect upon the 
Suitability Report (SR) theyd sent him along with all of the necessary pre-sale 
information before reaching an informed decision.
They also felt his existing Aegon plan wasnt suitable for his needs because part of the 
monies were invested outside of his stated risk appetite.
Luxe believe Mr B only complained because of the performance of his plan and wouldnt 
have done so had it not been for the significant economic and political factors that have 
negatively impacted fund values over recent months.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Luxe did not present any new 
arguments hed not already considered.
Luxe asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After receiving my provisional decision, Mr B contacted this service to confirm they accepted 
the decision and had no further comment to make.
Luxe however explained they did not agree with the provisional decision. Luxe said theyve 
always acted in Mr Bs best interests and treated him fairly. Ive summarised Luxes points in 
far less detail than them and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to 
every single point made by Luxe. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Luxe also 
said, in summary:
That following their discussions with Mr B, he was in total agreement with the ATR level 
their adviser had confirmed.
Luxe also said that despite a DFM solution being recommended, the risk was limited by 
a moderate risk portfolio being arranged. They felt the small increase in charges was 
worth the potential for higher returns.
Luxe went on to say they always discuss potential returns with clients, setting out that 
past performance is only hypothetical and not a guide to the future.
Luxe concluded by stating Mr B had willingly accepted their recommendation and 
decided to proceed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I think whats at the heart of this complaint is, whether it 
was right for Luxe to move Mr B from his existing SIPP at Aegon, into a DFM with a new 
provider, Davies & Co. I didnt think it was and Ill explain why below.
At the time of Luxes advice to Mr B, he was 57 years old, a Watchmaker and in good health. 
He was a standard retail investor with just over 17 years until retirement. The plan being 
switched was most if not all of his retirement provision. His main objectives were noted in the 
suitability report as: 
You have a pension with Aegon that you would now like to review and consider its 
ongoing suitability
You moved into the pension with Aegon around 2 years ago, since then you feel the 
investment has not really performed very well and stayed pretty much the same. You 
would like to look at the possibility of transferring to a new arrangement where you could 
get better returns and perhaps take a bit more risk with your money than your Aegon 
policy.
You said it would be helpful to speak with someone regularly who can help you 
understand the pension, where the money has been invested and any potential changes 
that could be made to keep the pension on track to fund your retirement, advice on 
making contributions etc.
We discussed both our service with regular reviews and updated, and that of a 
discretionary fund manager. Although cheaper alternatives may be available via 
independent advice, you felt our service would benefit you so you can keep on top of 
how your investments are performing and be able to make any changes if needed. I 
explained that this service would work out more expensive but has the potential to 
generate better returns and you were to pay the extra for this. 
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt believe any of those objectives provide a compelling 
enough catalyst when considering Mr Bs wider financial circumstances to switch his existing 
pension. Whilst Mr B, when educated about the differences between DFM and a passive or 
managed fund, may have been attracted to the potential benefits of having his money 
managed in a bespoke style, that doesnt necessarily mean it was the right thing for him. 
Indeed, Luxe have explained in their submissions to this service, that the decision to switch 
was driven solely by Mr B who was already invested and was attracted by the potential of 
higher growth. The advice to transfer in this instance wasnt undertaken on an insistent 
client basis, it was adviser led. Just because a client is keen and wishes to act, doesnt 
necessarily mean its in their best interest to do so and in such circumstances, its incumbent 
on the adviser to help guide the consumer down the route thats right for them. Thats 
particularly more important when the adviser is aware the client is inexperienced.
Luxe have indicated within the FF theyve categorised Mr B as inexperienced. What little 
knowledge he has of the market appears to have been gained from holding his former 
pension plan. The FF is silent on whether Mr B has previously held or made any other active 
decisions to buy and sell equity-based investments of his own accord.
I think if most inexperienced customers were asked if theyd like better returns on their 
investment, most would likely say yes. Mr B moved into the Aegon plan in July 2018 and 
received advice from Luxe to transfer the monies only 17 months later. The SR states that 
you feel the investment has not really performed very well and stayed pretty much the same. Whilst that may be the view of the consumer, it doesnt appear the Adviser has 
challenged that perspective because later within the SR, it suggests rather than staying 
static, the Aegon funds have broadly performed reasonably well. Allied to this, it appears to 
ignore the fact that equity-based investments should be considered over the medium term 
and the adviser has failed to challenge this view by looking at less than 2 years worth of 
performance in isolation.
In respect of Mr Bs other objectives, it appears the existing arrangement he held was 
already meeting those needs. The objectives within the SR fail to identify what hes not 
getting from his existing service that Luxe were able to offer to warrant changing the status-
quo. 
I also said in my provisional decision that Luxe explained they used generic industry 
software to help determine Mr Bs ATR. Whilst I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of the 
output noted, its incumbent on Advisers to ensure that information is considered in light of 
other facts they know about the consumers wider personal circumstances. So, whilst its 
important Luxe establish the level of risk Mr B wanted to take, I dont believe theyve 
considered that robustly enough against the risk he is able to take in light of his wider 
financial circumstances. Thats why the CFL assessment is so important.
The overriding aim of the capacity for loss discussion is to understand what impact, if any, a 
fall in the value of the investments would have on the customers standard of living. In the 
SR that Luxe sent to Mr B, they determined he had a medium CFL, which they defined as 
follows:
Although you could tolerate the loss of a significant portion of your investment, you should 
consider this against your expected timeframe for the investment. In view of your financial 
circumstances, you confirmed that you are willing and able to accept the potential volatility of 
investments and the possible losses that may be incurred in adopting the above risk 
category, whilst still maintaining your current standard of living.
The FF completed at the time, stated that apart from a workplace pension scheme, Mr B had 
no savings or any other assets he could rely on to fund his retirement. Despite the fact the 
FF suggested he had disposable income of around £7,700 per annum, he held no 
emergency fund or other investments. Allied to this, he had an outstanding loan of £11,000 
and an outstanding interest only mortgage, for which there is no repayment vehicle in place, 
of £270,000. 
I explained that I acknowledged Mr Bs occupation as a Watchmaker would likely mean any 
health issues may have a limited impact on his ability to work until 75. So, whilst he may 
have around 17 years on his side to invest and ride out the ups and downs of the market, I 
remain unconvinced Luxes CFL assessment is a fair conclusion of his financial 
circumstances given his very limited wider wealth. The Adviser has stated Mr B has only just 
started paying into his employers pension plan so, the benefits from that scheme will be 
limited. In addition, with no other savings or investments, the Aegon scheme made up the 
majority of Mr Bs retirement fund. Therefore, should that fund fall in value, even to a limited 
extent, given its modest value of just over £30,000, Im very much of the view its likely to 
have a significant impact on his longer-term plans. Im therefore not persuaded that Mr B has 
the capacity to take risks at the level Luxe claim. 
In my provisional decision, I also thought it was important to acknowledge Mr Bs plan is fully 
crystalised and as such, there is no scope to extract any tax-free cash from the fund. If Mr B 
does need to draw funds from the plan to cover short term emergency costs, given his 
current income, any withdrawal is likely to be taxable.Moving to a bespoke managed solution will always cost customers more. Put simply, thats 
because theres more work involved in running those types of arrangement. Whilst they cost 
more than a typical off the shelf managed or packaged fund, they still have a very important 
role to play in the financial advice market. More often than not, theyre well suited to 
consumers who are experienced and have large funds to invest. With a more tailored 
investment service, comes increased costs. Therefore, a larger fund is more readily able to 
absorb those charges limiting the overall impact of the fees on the end fund. Whilst I should 
acknowledge Luxe provided a full cost disclosure to Mr B ahead of him investing, just 
because he was advised about the charges, doesnt necessarily make the decision to 
proceed the right one. I can think of no plausible reason why Mr B would benefit from having 
his monies managed on a bespoke basis when considering the size of fund and the 
increased drag the higher charges would have on it.
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mr Bs 
pension, as he was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. 
I said in my earlier decision, I saw nothing to persuade me that Mr B was seeking a 
sophisticated investment proposition that would give him the chance to invest outside 
conventional funds that the SIPP would provide. Instead I think greater investment fund 
choice was of limited benefit when Mr B had little experience of investing in stocks and 
shares. There wasnt any explanation as to why he wanted a greater fund choice, or what 
investments he wanted to make that were not already available with his existing Aegon plan 
(which the SR acknowledges provides 4,800 fund choices). Furthermore, the value of his 
pension was relatively low, meaning that he was unlikely to be able to spread his investment 
across a significantly greater range of funds than his existing scheme already employed. 
And I dont think the adviser could reasonably conclude that Mr B wanted or needed access 
to non-standard investments, which the new SIPP could provide.
Finally, I explained that I had reflected on whether the DFM solution may have been suitable 
at that point because the Adviser was aware of other factors about the customer that may, 
for example, have justified investing in a bespoke portfolio with such a small fund. The file is 
silent on whether Mr B was potentially coming into further monies in the near future such as 
a large inheritance or significant pay increases that may have warranted a DFM over a 
packaged product. I therefore didnt believe it was either suitable for his current or future 
needs.
I also looked at the investment profiles of the Aegon and Davies & Co SIPPs pre and post 
recommendation. Prior to being moved to Luxe, Mr Bs savings were invested in the 
following funds:
L&G Pacific Index
Fidelity Index Japan
Fidelity Index UK
Fidelity Index Emerging Markets
Fidelity Index European
Fidelity Index US
FP Apollo Multi Asset AdventurousFP Apollo Multi Asset Balanced
The SR Luxe sent to Mr B said: You would like to look at the possibility of transferring to a 
new arrangement where you could get better returns and perhaps take a bit more risk with 
your money than your current Aegon policy. However, following the recommendation, his 
funds were actually exposed to a lower equity content, and therefore, lower risk:
39% Fixed Income
56% Global Equity
5% private equities and cash
Luxe on the face of it, reduced the risk Mr B was taking with his funds but importantly, thats 
the opposite of what they set out to do. The charges on the DFM solution were higher, the 
reduced equity content would have to work correspondingly harder to match the increased 
impact of those costs.
Within the SR, the Adviser has discounted a number of alternative options to transferring to 
Luxe, one of them being, moving the Aegon monies to his existing workplace scheme. In 
their letter to Mr B, they stated you did not provide full details and options for the existing 
scheme so we have been unable to review whether this is a viable option. However, within 
the FF, the Adviser noted we talked about the possibility of transferring into your workplace 
pension and that this is often a cheaper alternative but will have limited features eg fund 
choice, flexibility. You did not want to consider this because of the limited features. Also, I 
can only provide advice on our proposition. 
In my provisional decision, I said that if the Adviser failed to collect full details of the existing 
scheme, its unclear how they established the fund choices were limited. Its also unclear 
what the Adviser meant by a lack of flexibility because at this stage, the customer is still in 
the accumulation phase of their retirement planning and usually, flexible features would 
typically be of secondary importance. Whilst the Adviser has acknowledged they can only 
provide advice on their own proposition, they cant discount other potentially viable options 
just because theyre not authorised to discuss them which is to the detriment of the 
customer. 
Only 20 months after being advised to invest in their DFM solution, Luxe subsequently 
recommended Mr B move out of the Davies & Co SIPP and into an Aviva PP. Mr B was 
placed into a managed fund; the Aviva Investors Multi-Asset Fund Plus III. Whilst our 
investigator stated he didnt need to review that recommendation as it post-dated the advice 
to transfer the Aegon plan, I have considered it when reaching a conclusion. Ive determined 
its important because, I wanted to understand why, having only been invested for less than 
2 years, Luxe felt it necessary to move Mr B into a low cost managed fund, not dissimilar to 
where he was originally. I also explained in my provisional decision that I had reviewed the 
paperwork issued to Mr B at the time of that subsequent advice. The SR issued to Mr B at 
the time states numerous objectives, however, the most relevant are:
You want to review the Davies & Co SIPP and invest the funds with another provider.
You would like to reduce the charges you are paying and we have discussed before 
about alternative products that are more competitively priced whilst also looking at the 
potential for better returns.
At the appointment in August 2021, Mr Bs ATR was reduced from a 7 out of 10 (High 
Medium) to a 6 out of 10, (Balanced Growth). His pension fund at that point had reduced in value to £28,381. When he originally invested with Luxe, his fund was worth around £33,620 
(which takes account of the 3%, or £1,040 initial charge they originally levied to move the 
fund from Aegon). They explained the transfer to Aviva was suitable because:
Reduce charges  the charges for the recommended plan are significantly lower than the 
existing plan. Reducing charges provides the potential for superior returns as you are 
paying less in fees, although future return cannot be guaranteed.
Performance  you have been disappointed with the performance of the existing SIPP 
and would like a retirement plan that provides the potential for improved performance.
Im of the view Luxes subsequent recommendation to move to a basic Aviva PP with a 
packaged fund only 20 months later, undermines their original advice to invest in a DFM 
solution in the SIPP. Whilst the catalyst for changing to the Aviva PP may have been Mr Bs 
ongoing complaint with this service, had a simple fund switch been properly explored in 
December 2019 rather than being discounted simply because Mr B liked the idea of having 
his money invested in a DFM, Im of the opinion its unlikely he wouldve had cause for 
complaint.
I have again, carefully considered all the information in respect of this complaint and I have 
reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. I appreciate Luxe may 
disagree but, they havent provided any new or additional information to that which has 
already been provided to this service. 
In my provisional decision I explained that Luxe had failed to determine what state pension 
provision Mr B may likely receive at retirement. Luxe have since come back and stated a 
BR19 state pension forecast was obtained. Whilst Luxe may have sourced his potential 
benefits, I dont think that detracts in anyway from my concerns about their CFL assessment.
Whilst Mr B may have willingly entered into the transaction, just because a consumer has 
been told about the risks, it doesnt necessarily make it right for them. It was down to Luxe to 
ensure it was right for him and, as Ive already said, I havent been convinced it was.
So, as there is no new information to consider it follows that I have reached the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision, the details of which I 
have set out above.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Luxe do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Luxe must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with Aegon. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.Luxe should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Luxe should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Luxe is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Luxe deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Luxe should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Current 
investments 
made / 
Aviva PP in force Notional value 
from AegonDate 
transferred 
out of 
AegonDate of final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 60 
days* of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant' s 
acceptance 
and all the 3rd 
party 
information)
*As the business has stated theyre having issues sourcing information from third parties to 
complete the calculation, this has been extended from the 28 days referred to in the 
provisional decision, to 60 days. The 60 days only starts once the business has both the 
third-party information necessary to do the calculation and the customers acceptance of 
the final decision.
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with Aegon until the end date. Luxe 
should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Davies & Co SIPP and the Aviva PP should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Luxe totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Luxe will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understandingcompensation/compensation-investment-complaints.
Alternatively, just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.  Luxe should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr B in a clear, simple format. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that B K Luker Financial Services Ltd trading as Luxe 
Capital should pay the amount calculated as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman