DRN-3344667
The complaint
Mrs R complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) didnt provide her with 
a full refund of the premium she paid for her travel insurance policy when she first requested 
it. 
Mrs R is unhappy with the level of compensation offered to her by Great Lakes in recognition 
of the impact that this situation  and its incorrect referral of her claim to the wrong 
underwriter  had on her. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to act on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs R held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy was
bought on 16 March 2020, and cover started under the policy on 31 March 2020.
When Mrs R bought this policy, she was already abroad and was insured under a similarly
branded travel insurance policy with a different underwriter. Mrs Rs trip was extended due to
the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In November 2020, Mrs R asked Great Lakes for a
refund of the premium for the policy shed purchased on 16 March 2020. She also
subsequently asked Great Lakes about making a claim because shed been stuck overseas.
Great Lakes incorrectly told Mrs R to direct her claim to a particular business. Great Lakes
subsequently gave Mrs R the correct details about how to make a claim and offered to
refund her £132.93 (75% of the premium) shed paid for the policy purchased on 16 March
2020.
Unhappy, Mrs R complained to Great Lakes. Great Lakes increased its offer and said it
would refund Mrs R £177.24 (100% of the premium) and also offered to pay her £20
compensation. Mrs R didnt accept Great Lakes offer of compensation and therefore
brought the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He said Mrs R wasnt entitled to a
full refund of the premium shed paid for the policy in March 2020. However, he thought that
Great Lakes should pay Mrs R a total of £150 compensation in respect of its errors relating
to the information about how to make a claim, and because Great Lakes corresponded with
Mrs Rs representative by email when hed asked for correspondence by letter.
Neither Great Lakes nor Mrs R agreed with our investigators opinion (but I note Mrs R now 
says she did agree but wished to have the award ratified by an ombudsman), so the 
complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mrs Rs complaint in 
February 2022. In it, I said:
Great Lakes is the business responsible for Mrs Rs complaint about the refund of the
premium paid for the policy purchased on 16 March 2020. Its also the business responsible
for any complaint about the information provided to Mrs R in connection with the claim she
wished to make.
When making my provisional decision, Ive considered everything which both Mrs R and
Great Lakes have said. But I wont be addressing each and every complaint point raised 
nor am I obliged to  instead Ill be focusing on what I think are the key issues.
The refund of premiums for the policy purchased on 16 March 2020
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations, and law. I agree these are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Rs policy with Great Lakes, under the heading Cancelling
or amending Your Policy, say:
 If you cancel within 14 days of the receipt of Your documentation and You have
not started a trip or made or intend to make a claim, We will give You a full refund 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside of the 14 day cooling-off period no
premium will be refunded .
My findings on this aspect of the complaint are:
Mrs R first contacted Great Lakes to enquire about a premium refund in November
2020. At this point, her policy had been in place for around eight months. While I note
Mrs Rs policy wasnt formally cancelled until late February 2021, I think it would be
fair and reasonable to consider November 2020  the point Mrs R first expressed
dissatisfaction with the policy purchased on 16 March 2020  as being the date on
which the policy was cancelled, and the date after which Great Lakes was no longer
at risk of a claim being made under this policy.
Mrs Rs policy was cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period and so there is
no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to
offer any refund.
Mrs Rs contract of insurance also says that no refund of premium will be available
where a policy is cancelled more than 14 days after the receipt of policy
documentation. There is no provision within the policy for a refund to be given to a
policyholder if they do not travel within the period of insurance.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
Covid-19. While I accept there were some government-imposed travel restrictions in
place for some of the period during which this policy was in force (March 2020 to
November 2020), Great Lakes had no way of knowing for certain that Mrs R hadnt
made any new trips during this period. Furthermore, during this time, Great Lakes
was still bearing the risk that Mrs R may have had to cancel any future trips shed
booked to take during the remaining policy period due to an event insured under the
policy  for example, illness or injury. So, its not correct to say that Mrs R had no
cover at all under her policy. And, its fair that Great Lakes should retain some
premium for the cover it did provide.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way it calculates the premiums it charges, taking
into account a wide variety of factors  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Great
Lakes has said, in its claims experience for this type of policy, it receives varying
percentages of claims across different months of an annual multi-trip insurance
policy. For a policy which was in force for around eight months as this one was,Great Lakes has demonstrated that theres a material unevenness in the way the risk
is spread for the policy and that around 85% of the policy premium is considered
used after around eight months of cover.
So, Id expect Great Lakes to have refunded around 15% of the premium to a
customer in Mrs Rs situation. Instead, as a gesture of goodwill, Great Lakes first
offered a 75% refund and later paid a 100% refund to Mrs R.
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and its more than I
think Great Lakes needed to do.
Its not for this service to tell an insurer what it should and shouldnt offer cover for. Policies
like this one are annually renewable contracts, and an insurer doesnt have to renew the
policy (either at all, or subject to the same terms and/or provided by the same underwriter).
Equally, if Mrs R didnt wish to renew her cover on 16 March 2020 then she was under no
obligation to do so.
Based on the information Ive seen, this policy was renewed before Great Lakes announced
that it would be suspending sales of this type of policy, and there arent any reasonable
grounds upon which I could fairly conclude that Great Lakes shouldnt have charged the
premium for this policy when it did.
In any event, even I were to agree that Great Lakes shouldnt have offered this policy to Mrs
R when it did, the remedy which wed generally recommend if a policy has been mis-sold is
a refund of the premiums. Great Lakes has already provided this to Mrs R.
Compensation
Mrs Rs representative isnt insured under this policy, so he isnt an eligible complainant
under our rules in either a personal or in a professional capacity. This means I have no
power to award any compensation to him.
So, in considering what award of compensation I think is appropriate in this case, I can have
regard to the impact of Great Lakes errors on Mrs R only. I think these errors were providing
incorrect details about how to make a claim and corresponding with Mrs Rs representative
by email instead of by post. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think Great Lakes
made any error by refusing to offer Mrs R a full refund of her premiums from the outset.
Overall, Great Lakes has refunded Mrs R more of her premium than I think it needed to. Im
satisfied that this, taken together with the £20 compensation which Great Lakes has already
offered, is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances for the distress and
experience which Mrs R herself experienced.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R but I dont intend to ask Great Lakes to pay any further
compensation, or to award any interest on the premium refund which Great Lakes has
already provided.
Great Lakes replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mrs Rs 
representative sent us a detailed response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account Mrs Rs representatives detailed response to my provisional 
decision. Ive already explained that Im not obliged to reference, and I wont be addressing, 
each and every argument that has been raised  only what I think are the key issues. And, 
as I set out in my provisional decision, I considered all the information that was sent to us 
before making that decision. For the avoidance of doubt, this included Mrs Rs 
representatives submissions of 15 February 2022. I addressed many of the arguments 
raised in those submissions within my provisional decision.   
While third party policy administrators may act on its behalf, Great Lakes is the provider of 
Mrs Rs insurance policy. Great Lakes is the business entitled to the benefit of the premium 
and is therefore the business responsible for any complaint about the refund of those 
premiums. 
This policy was sold on 16 March 2020, not 31 March 2020. 31 March 2020 was the cover 
start date. At the time this policy was sold, Great Lakes was still offering travel insurance 
policies under the brand which Mrs R purchased. Renewing an annual travel insurance 
policy means that a new contract is entered into every year, potentially on different terms. 
This is how annual travel insurance policies work. An insurer is under no obligation to 
continually renew annual policies that were held previously on the same terms as before. 
Even if I were to agree that this policy shouldnt have been offered to Mrs R or that it was 
impossible for any element of the contract to be performed (which I dont), Mrs R has already 
received a full refund of the premiums she paid for this policy. So, Great Lakes has already 
put Mrs R back into the financial position she would have been in if shed never bought the 
policy. So, even if I were to accept everything which Mrs Rs representative has said about 
these issues, there isnt anything further Id direct Great Lakes to do. 
I dont agree that Great Lakes was wrong to deduct the premium when it did, and I dont 
agree that the policy premium should have been automatically refunded to Mrs R. Mrs R 
didnt have any entitlement to a full refund of the premium. When Great Lakes did offer to 
refund the full premium, I dont think its delays in processing the refund were unreasonable 
or excessive. 
Mrs Rs representative has dealt with this matter on Mrs Rs behalf. My powers dont allow 
me to award compensation to Mrs Rs representative, and Im satisfied that his involvement 
shielded Mrs R herself from much of the impact of Great Lakes actions. 
So, overall, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE has already made an offer to pay £20 compensation to settle the
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay £20 to Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman