DRN-3414332
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money caused delays in 
transferring her Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) causing her financial loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Virgin has paid Miss M £250 for what happened, it also paid her for the interest up until the 
transfer completed. 
Our investigator said Virgin had paid a fair amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused  this error was that it caused delays which was four days 
over the expected time for a cash ISA transfer. However, he recommended Virgin pay 
Miss M compensation for four days lost interest based on what she would have received 
from her new provider minus what she received from Virgin for the same period. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I wrote to Miss M letting her know that I did think Virgin 
had taken sufficient steps to put the matter right. I asked her to reply with any further 
evidence by no later than 31 August 2022. Miss M responded but didnt add any further 
evidence for me to consider so my decision remains as I set out to her in my email to her. 
So, for reasons already explained to Miss M, I dont think Virgin has to do anything further for 
the following reasons:
All parties agree that there was a delay in transferring Miss Ms ISA to another 
provider and for this Virgin has already paid £250 compensation. The only issue 
which remains in dispute is the amount of compensation. Miss M said she thinks 
£800 would be a more reasonable amount because of the inconvenience she 
suffered from making numerous phone calls and corresponding with both Virgin and 
her new provider.
 
However, I think the amount its offered and paid is in line with what Id expect for a 
mistake of this kind. There was a delay of four days. Normally a transfer of this type 
would take 15 working days. But in fact, because of Virgins errors, it took four days 
longer than it should have. So, I think £250 sufficiently compensates Miss M for any 
distress and inconvenience caused during this period. 
I also think £250 sufficiently covers any potential financial loss which Virgin estimates 
is around £3-£4. This is the difference between what it paid her for the interest for 
those days and what interest she would have received from her new provider had the 
transfer completed without any delays. Given this, I think £250 also covers any 
interest Miss M may have lost. 
I know Virgins communication could have been better and it made a mistake whilst 
investigating the complaint in that it didnt initially register it as a complaint. But, 
again, in my view, £250 sufficiently covers this and its other mistakes. 
For all these reasons, Im not asking Virgin to pay Miss M anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, has to do 
anything further as I think the compensation it has already paid to Miss M is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman