DRN-3012873
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly by applying their security 
protocols and blocking his transfer attempts. He doesnt agree the security checks were 
necessary and feels Santander should compensate him for his financial loss - as he was 
trying to invest his money and was delayed in doing so. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
I dont think Santander should do anything more to resolve this complaint for the following 
reasons: 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers 
accounts safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. As Mr T is aware, they have 
developed sophisticated systems to help them do so. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause 
distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they 
have acted incorrectly.
Mr Ts request that Santander change their security procedures, to make them easier 
for their customers and more efficient is understandable, but not something our 
service is able to direct them to do. This is because we do not interfere with how a 
bank or building society, runs their business or the policy decisions they make. We 
are not the regulator. As a dispute resolution service, our role is to decide if 
Santander have followed their procedures and, in doing so, if they have treated Mr T 
fairly. 
I appreciate that having several payment transfers blocked would have been 
frustrating for Mr T - especially as he wanted to move his money to make an 
investment. I also understand why he feels increased communication from Santander 
would have been helpful under the circumstances - as there was a period of time 
when he didnt know his transfers had been blocked. That said, the restrictions 
Santander put in place, were ultimately done to protect Mr Ts account, as his 
payments were flagged by their system as potential security concerns. So, Im 
satisfied Santander acted fairly by relying on their terms and conditions, and internal 
security procedures to block Mr Ts transactions in the way that they did.
As Santander have now paid Mr T £150 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
matter caused him, I think this is a reasonable resolution to the complaint. I know    
Mr T feels strongly that this amount should be increased, and he should be 
compensated for his financial loss. However, having carefully considered everything 
thats happened, and the timeframe involved, I see no reasonable grounds for doing 
so. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by this decision, but for the reasons Ive 
explained - I think Santander have treated him fairly under the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman