DRN-1627753
 
The complaint
Mr M complains on that Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) trading as Danske Bank 
mis-sold him regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr M took out personal loans with Northern Bank in 1998 and 1999. At the same time he 
was sold regular premium PPI policies to protect his loan repayments. The policies wouldve 
covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness for 
the duration of the loan and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy wouldve 
been presented as optional and wouldve suited his needs.
Mr M disagrees. He says he didnt understand the paperwork or that the PPI was optional. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M applied for the loans during meetings at a branch of Northern Bank. Northern Bank had 
to make it clear to Mr M he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr M said this wasnt done but he 
hasnt given much detail about why he thinks this. And because of the length of time that has 
passed since the sales Northern Bank hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork for 
the loans. So I dont know exactly what was discussed. 
But Northern Bank has provided a sample of a loan agreement from the time which I think is 
likely to be the same agreement used when Mr M took out his loans. So to help me reach my 
decision Ive considered what Mr Ms said and looked at the sample loan agreement 
Northern Bank have given us together with what we know about its sales process.
From what I understand of the sales process its likely that there wouldve been a discussion 
between the sales adviser and Mr M about PPI and if PPI was required it wouldve been 
included on the loan agreement.
I can see from the sample loan agreement that there is a separate boxed section that deals 
with PPI. Within in the section the option to take or decline PPI is provided with Yes and 
No tick boxes with a space for signing to confirm the selection separately from the loan.  So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr M at the time he took out the loans that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because he could say yes or no to taking PPI and he 
had to sign separately for it. And based on what Mr M has told us I cant say its likely 
Northern Bank did do things to make Mr M think the PPI wasnt optional.
Northern Bank advised Mr M to take the policies. What this means is that Northern Bank not 
only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr 
M could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were 
to recommend PPI that the policies were suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Northern Bank did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think the PPI was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr M for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of sales Mr M says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay above statutory sick 
pay and had no other means of making his repayments if he couldnt work. The PPI 
wouldve covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. So I think the PPI wouldve 
provided a useful benefit to Mr M in his circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time and if 
he decided he no longer wanted the cover he couldve cancelled the policies. 
 
I also need to consider whether Northern Bank gave Mr M information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the PPI out. 
 
I dont know if Northern Bank did give Mr M all the proper information, but for the same 
reasons that the PPI was suitable and based on what Mr M has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been given all the 
proper information.  
This means Mr Ms isnt any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Northern Bank.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Northern Bank 
Limited.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman