DRN-4428030
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to provide them with correct advice 
when applying for a new mortgage and theyve lost out as a result.
What happened
Lloyds has accepted it didnt do what it should have when providing Mr and Mrs G with 
information about their options when they applied to port their mortgage with additional 
borrowing. It wasnt made clear how the port process worked and Mr and Mrs G were led to 
believe theyd receive the full balance on the sale of their previous property, without the 
previous mortgage balance needing to be deducted from this. As a result they thought they 
had a bigger deposit than they actually had for their new property and it resulted in a 
significant shortfall on the day of completion. 
Lloyds has made an offer to put things right, based on what it thinks it would be fair to do 
when thinking about the advice provided and the impact this had on Mr and Mrs G.
Lloyds has offered to do the following:
- Pay Mr and Mrs G £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
- To cover, on receipt of invoices/receipts the additional costs incurred with the move 
when it was delayed, estimated to be around £2,000.
- To provide an interest free loan of up to £17,000 for the term of the mortgage to allow 
Mr and Mrs G to repay existing debts as theyd planned. This would be paid with a 
monthly payment collected with the mortgage monthly payment.
- An application could be made for the additional £30,000 Mr and Mrs G need to repay 
their family, who helped bridge the shortfall with their completion. This would be 
subject to Lloyds lending criteria and the interest rate would be based on the rate 
available at the time.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt the offer by Lloyds to put things right was 
fair. She thought Lloyds had recognised the impact of its error with the award made for the 
distress and inconvenience being in line with what this Service would expect. And it was 
right that Lloyds covered the direct financial losses experienced on the weekend of moving 
due to the delay in the completion. 
She didnt think it was fair to ask Lloyds to do anything else. She felt the offer to provide 
borrowing for the debts that Mr and Mrs G had planned to repay with an interest free loan 
was fair. She also thought the shortfall in the purchase price would have been clear to Mr 
and Mrs Gs solicitor ahead of the completion as the mortgage offer stated the previous 
mortgage needed to be repaid as one of the special conditions. The solicitor acting for the 
conveyance should have ensured that Mr and Mrs G had the funds to complete the 
transaction, taking account of their available equity and new borrowing available. So 
although Lloyds was not as clear as it could have been, she didnt think it would be fair to 
ask it to pay this cost.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigator. They dont feel Lloyds has done enough to put 
them back to the position they thought they would have been in based on the information 
provided during the application. They feel they have a property that they would not have 
been able to purchase had it been clear their deposit amount was lower.
They now owe their family £38,000 while still having the existing debts of £17,000 to repay. 
They feel the debt owed to their family would not be there had Lloyds not provided the 
incorrect information and this is a financial loss theyve suffered because of Lloyds error. 
And the loan offer from Lloyds is not fair as it ties them to Lloyds as it has increased their 
mortgage debt.
Overall, Mr and Mrs G feel the resolution put forward only benefits Lloyds and places them 
at a long-term disadvantage. Because our investigators opinion remained unchanged, the 
complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be difficult for Mr and Mrs G, but Ill explain why I think the offer Lloyds has 
made to put things right is fair.
There is no dispute that Lloyds provided incorrect information to Mr and Mrs G and that they 
relied on this information when making decisions about the house they wanted to purchase, 
including the budget they had available. So there is no need for me to consider this here. 
The crux of this complaint is, has Lloyds done enough with the offer to put things right.
Normally when something has gone wrong, the starting point to put things right is to consider 
what would have happened but for the error. Mr and Mrs G have explained had they been 
given the correct information about the porting process they would not have bought the 
property they did. Based on the borrowing Lloyds has said Mr and Mrs G could obtain, this is 
true and they could not have borrowed more to bridge the gap in their deposit.
This error was only identified when the completion was taking place and as a result Mr and 
Mrs G needed to, under great pressure, see if they could raise the funds for the shortfall or 
risk losing the property, having already sold their own. Fortunately the help of their family 
meant they were able to complete the move but at the greater expense and debt now owed 
to their family. So simply speaking, it isnt possible to put Mr and Mrs G back to the position 
they would have been in had the error not occurred.
Mr and Mrs G have focused on the resolution not putting them back in the position they 
thought they would be in, had the information provided been correct. But as Ive said above, 
this is not the approach I think would be fair and reasonable to take. 
I think there was opportunities for Lloyds to have picked up on Mr and Mrs G 
misunderstanding the port process based on the information theyd been given. In the 
telephone calls Mr G had with Lloyds when double checking his understanding, phrases 
such as too good to be true and like winning the lottery could reasonably have led the 
advisers to question whether the information provided was as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think it is fair to say that Lloyds is the only party to this transaction that failed to 
highlight there could be an issue.Mr and Mrs G had a solicitor acting on their behalf for the conveyance and after theyd 
applied for the mortgage on the belief of their deposit being higher than it was, the mortgage 
offer was sent to their solicitor. This set out a number of special conditions including, the 
repayment of the existing mortgage debt. Mr and Mrs G have said they felt it had been 
expressly agreed previously this didnt need repaying, but it is for the solicitor to confirm the 
conditions have or will be met when completing the conveyance. And if previously discussed 
and agreed, Id expect this to have been checked and confirmed. 
The mortgage offer was produced sometime before the completion was due to take place 
and this should have highlighted the potential shortfall in completion. So I dont think it would 
be fair to say that there wasnt information provided ahead of the completion that ought to 
have alerted Mr and Mrs G to a potential issue with their purchase. 
When the issue was not identified until so late in the day, it clearly caused a great amount of 
distress and this is still impacting Mr and Mrs G now. But I feel the award made of £2,000 for 
the distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. It is in line with what Id expect to see 
for an error of this level where the impact is lasting as Mr and Mrs Gs expectations have 
changed considerably from where they were before.
It is right that Mr and Mrs G do not lose out financially as a result of Lloyds error and I think 
what it has considered here as their financial loss is correct and the offer fair. The additional 
moving costs all suffered as a result of the delay are costs they wouldnt have otherwise 
paid, and while I think the solicitor could have highlighted the error sooner, Lloyds has acted 
fairly in offering to cover these out-of-pocket expresses. 
I appreciate the reservations Mr and Mrs G have about the loan facility offered by Lloyds to 
repay the short-term debt they say they would have repaid had everything gone as theyd 
expected. But I think this is a fair offer, it crystallises the amount of debt they owe elsewhere 
and will save them paying the interest on these debts. The repayment term in line with the 
mortgage term will mean the repayment spread over a longer period, but as no interest is 
charged, it doesnt cost them anymore and will reduce the monthly outgoing. But if Mr and 
Mrs G wanted to repay this over a shorter period, Id expect Lloyds to allow this to happen 
without penalty.    
Mr and Mrs G feel they have a financial loss for the money they needed to borrow from 
family to cover the shortfall in the purchase price. I accept they have to pay more than they 
were expecting for the property as their deposit was lower than they believed, but as Ive 
said I think this shortfall could have been highlighted sooner. And it would not be fair to 
expect Lloyds to cover this shortfall in their deposit. Mr and Mrs G currently have this in the 
equity of their property and it would not be correct to say this is a financial loss. Lloyds has 
offered to consider a further borrowing application to see if it can release some of this equity 
to allow Mr and Mrs G to repay the money theyve borrowed and I think this is a fair option.
Mr and Mrs G relied on information which was wrong when making decisions about the 
property they wanted to purchase. But I dont think it would be fair to say Lloyds is 
responsible for the issue on the day of completion and the shortfall only being discovered at 
this point. And overall, I think the offer made by Lloyds to put things right here is fair, 
recognising the actual financial loss Mr and Mrs G has suffered and giving them an option to 
see if they can release the additional equity they currently have in their property.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman