DRN-2359394
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision not to pay a 
disturbance allowance while dealing with a claim for flood damage under her home 
insurance policy. 
Mrs C is being represented by a third party in her complaint, which Ill refer to as P.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs Cs property was damaged by flood Lloyds accepted the claim. Mrs 
C remained in the property whilst the claim was being dealt with. But P thought Lloyds 
should pay a disturbance allowance to Mrs C. P said the property was uninhabitable and Mrs 
C and her family had to live upstairs for several months while the ground floor restoration 
works were done. 
Lloyds said Mrs C chose to remain at the property while the works were carried out. It said 
the policy doesnt provide for disturbance allowance. So, it wouldnt be paying any allowance 
for Mrs C to stay in the property. Lloyds didnt agree that the property was uninhabitable.
Mrs C asked us to look into her complaint, and she has been represented by P here too. Our 
investigator considered whether Lloyds had acted reasonably. Based on the information 
available, he thought it had. While it was clear there was extensive damage caused by the 
flood, Mrs C had access to cooking and washing facilities. He explained that the flood didnt 
automatically mean the property was uninhabitable. And Mrs C and her family were able to 
live upstairs whilst work was being undertaken. Our investigator also explained that Mrs C 
wasnt automatically entitled to a disturbance allowance because she chose to stay in the 
property. 
P on behalf of Mrs C didnt agree. Ive addressed his points in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P says that he doesnt expect this service to search for reasons not to pay for something, but 
that we should be looking for reasons to pay for something. Our role is to take an even 
handed and impartial approach to the information provided by both parties and consider 
whether the insurer has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. So, this is what Ive 
done when deciding this complaint.
Dealing with any claim, particularly a fire or flood damage claim will inevitably cause 
disruption and inconvenience to the policyholder. I say this because the level of work often 
required to return a claim of this nature is often significant, and means a great deal of 
upheaval for those involved. Unfortunately, this inconvenience is unavoidable and Ive no 
doubt that having to live in these circumstances can cause considerable distress. When 
looking at a case such as this, I need to consider whether the insurer acted promptly and 
fairly in all the circumstances. So, I need to look at what happened during the claim, and 
consider whether the insurer caused avoidable delays, or could have dealt with the claim 
better. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs Cs property was extensively damaged by a flood, and the 
restoration repairs took months to complete. I havent seen any suggestion the works took 
longer than necessary, or werent dealt with, within in a reasonable timeframe. But, Mrs C 
feels Lloyds didnt do enough to support her during this claim. 
Mrs C feels that to better support her, she should have been provided with an allowance for 
the disturbance caused to her and her family while they lived at the property. So, Ive 
carefully considered whether the insurers decision not to pay a disturbance allowance was 
reasonable. 
Mrs Cs policy with Lloyds doesnt provide an allowance for disturbance due to the natural 
inconvenience of a claim. This isnt unusual. Allowances for disturbance are often dealt with 
as a common practice within the insurance industry. But the policy does provide the option 
for alternative accommodation where Lloyds considers a property to be uninhabitable. So, 
Ive considered whether Lloyds should have acted to provide Mrs C with alternative 
accommodation during the life of the claim. And, based on the information Ive seen, I dont 
think Lloyds needed to change its approach to this.
From what Ive seen, and from what Mrs Cs representative has confirmed, Mrs C made it 
clear that she and her family didnt want to move out. She wanted to stay at the property. P 
says that Mrs C and her family chose to stay at the home because it was best for their 
personal circumstances. Given Mrs C was very clear that she wouldnt consider moving out 
of the property, I dont think Lloyds needed to discuss whether Mrs C needed to move out or 
not. This was against her wishes, and I would expect an insurer to consider the 
policyholders comments when dealing with a claim. 
But P, representing Mrs C, says it was uninhabitable and so Lloyds should pay a disturbance 
allowance, regardless of whether Mrs C would have moved out of the property or not. He 
says that the insurer has saved money by not having to house Mrs C and her family in 
alternative accommodation.
Lloyds doesnt provide a definition of uninhabitable but that doesnt prevent us from 
considering what is fair and reasonable in line with good industry practice and our approach. 
Generally, a property would be considered uninhabitable if it was unsafe to stay in, or there 
was a lack of facilities such as a kitchen or bathroom. Email exchanges between Lloyds and 
P show that in January 2020 P raised concerns that the property may be uninhabitable. 
Lloyds instructed a loss adjuster to visit in January 2020. However, he reported that the 
property wasnt uninhabitable. The loss adjuster said the property was liveable as the 
kitchen was fully functioning at the time of his visit.
P has said that the presence of asbestos in the property, and the condition of the flooring 
whilst it was being fixed, rendered the property unsafe.
P provided an asbestos certificate dated 20 November 2019 which shows some sample tiles 
had the asbestos substance chrysotile. P has provided a copy of the drying report and a 
photo of the flooded street Mrs C lives in. P says there was a risk to health.
Lloyds say the asbestos was contained only in the bitumen when the drying contractor 
removed the thermoplastic floor tiles and would have either been scrabbled from the screed 
or contained. It says the loss adjuster deals with a number of claims with asbestos contained in the bitumen and, although disruptive for the time taken to remove, it doesnt make the 
property uninhabitable and no adverse risk when managed correctly. Ive thought carefully 
about this. And whilst I understand that the presence of asbestos can be worrying, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that a property is uninhabitable, or that the policyholder is at risk. Often 
asbestos contained within housing materials can be disposed of safely. And Lloyds has 
given an explanation of how this would have been dealt with in Mrs Cs case. I havent seen 
anything that suggests the asbestos at Mrs Cs home wasnt dealt with correctly  or 
exposed Mrs C and her family to any risk. So, Im not satisfied the property was 
uninhabitable in light of this.
For a time during the claim, flooring was lifted downstairs and joints were exposed. There 
was a lot of drying equipment in the home. Mrs Cs youngest child was 13. P doesnt believe 
Lloyds have properly considered the potential harm and impact the condition of the property 
had on Mrs C and her family. 
I agree that living in a home with exposed joints would be uncomfortable, and there may be 
potential risks present, such as a trip hazard. And I would expect an insurer to take any 
health and safety concerns into account. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont think there 
was anything further Lloyds could have done in this respect. It needed to complete 
reinstatement work to the property, and this does involve issues such as stripping out 
flooring. During that time, I cant see Lloyds took any avoidable steps in repairing the 
property. 
I understand that living upstairs for several months in their home with restoration works 
going on will have had a significant impact on Mrs C and her family. As Ive said, having to 
deal with a claim involving flood damage that requires a long period of restorative repairs will 
mean unavoidable disruption and inconvenience. 
However, I think Lloyds properly considered Mrs Cs claim and its decision to reject the claim 
for disturbance allowance was reasonable and in line with the policy. When concerns were 
raised as to the property being habitable, Lloyds instructed a contractor to assess the 
situation as we would expect it to do. I recognise this wont be the outcome that Mrs C is 
hoping for. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anymore.
A disturbance allowance isnt actually compensation for trouble and upset due to the nature 
of a claim. A disturbance allowance is compensation for actual extra costs a policyholder has 
incurred by remaining in their home, and being unable to use facilities such as the kitchen to 
prepare food, or due to additional costs the policyholder is incurring as a result of the type of 
accommodation they are housed in. Examples of such costs include additional food costs, 
laundry fees or travel expenses if the alternative accommodation results in increased 
commuting and travel. I havent seen any firm evidence to show Mrs C did incur additional 
costs whilst her claim was being dealt with. The kitchen and bathroom was still available for 
use  and there was no extra travel needed.
P has provided a report dated 19 November 2020 from a restoration cleaning service which 
says they deemed the washing machine and tumble drier beyond economical repair 
following a Portable Appliance Test (PAT). So, its possible there were additional laundry 
costs Mrs C incurred. But, I havent seen any evidence of additional laundry costs. And I 
cant see that Lloyds werent informed of any problems with the washing machine when it 
replied to the complaint in February 2020. I should explain that because Lloyds hadnt been 
told of any issues with the washing machine needing to be replaced, the settlement of this 
doesnt form part of the complaint we have investigated. So if Mrs C is unhappy with Lloyds 
decision not to include cover for these items, she  or P  will need to first raise this with 
Lloyds so it has an opportunity to respond.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman