DRN-3862502
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the amount West Bay Insurance Plc paid in settlement of a 
claim he made under his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr O is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
van following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said West Bay had 
reached its valuation using the same recognised motor industry trade guides which our 
service relies on. She said West Bay had used these guides correctly and paid a higher 
amount than the average valuation returned by the guides. So, she felt West Bays valuation 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Os policy document explains he is covered for the market value of his van in the 
event of a total loss claim  which this was.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing the vehicle in the UK with another of the same age, condition, 
make, mileage, model and specification as the vehicle was just before the loss or 
damage you are claiming for.
West Bay initially deemed the market value of Mr Os van to be £6,200. It based this on 
valuations obtained through various recognised industry trade guides, Glasss, CAP, Cazoo 
(formerly Cazana) and Parkers. Glasss didnt return a valuation for Mr Os van, so West Bay 
considered the valuations returned by the other three guides. These were:
CAP  £6,195
Cazoo  £4,998
Parkers - £6,790
West Bay later increased its valuation to £6,600, less the policy excess, following a 
discussion with its engineer. So, the amount it has settled the claim for is higher than the 
average valuation returned by the trade guides  around £5,995  and higher than the 
average of the higher two valuations, when discounting Cazoo as an outlier  £6,492.50.
Mr O feels the valuation guides are unfair or designed to benefit insurers. He has provided 
sales adverts for similar vans being advertised for sale at higher amounts. Based on these, 
Mr O feels West Bay should pay around £9,000 for his van.
As explained by our investigator, our services typical approach when considering complaints 
about fair market value takes into account what the market leading motor trade guides say 
the market value is. These guides are independent from the insurance industry, and from 
one another. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take 
into account regional variations. Were confident these guides give a good reflection of the 
true market value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that our service typically finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price the 
vehicle actually sells for. Its also particularly important to note, in this case, that most of the 
adverts provided by Mr O are for vans with lower mileage or slightly different specifications 
than his van, which is likely to have an impact on the price.
Ultimately, West Bay has broadly utilised the same industry guides our service typically 
relies on and has arrived at a settlement amount in line with the valuations returned by those 
guides. Ive considered the additional information provided by Mr O, but it isnt sufficient to 
persuade me that the valuation arrived at by West Bay was unfair or unreasonable. So, Ill 
not be directing West Bay to increase the settlement in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against West Bay 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman