DRN-2832567
The complaint
Mr F complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC gave 
him unsuitable invested advice because:
He was advised to invest too much of his money so didnt have enough cash 
reserves for short-term needs.
The investment carried too much risk based on his investment experience.
What happened
In 1996 Mr F was advised to invest £30 each month into Personal Equity Plan (PEP). 
Around four years later in 2000 he received further advice to invest a lump sum of £7,000 
into an ISA invested in the Worldwide Growth Fund (WGF). He kept both the PEP and ISA 
until 2011 when both were surrendered.
The CMC complained to Lloyds in 2020. It upheld the complaint about the advice to invest in 
the PEP in 1996 and paid redress of £660. It didnt uphold the complaint about the advice in 
2000. It said that at that time Mr F had experience of investment through the PEP so would 
have been aware of stock market volatility and that investments should be held for the 
medium to long-term.
The CMC agreed with the outcome of the complaint about the PEP but not what Lloyds said 
about the advice to invest in the ISA in 2000. The CMC argues that Mr F shouldnt have 
been treated as an experienced investor given the first investment was unsuitable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think the advice to invest in the 
ISA was unsuitable. He agreed with Lloyds that at the time of advice Mr F had invested long 
enough to be considered an investor with investment experience. He also thought he had 
capacity to invest in risk-based products for the medium term.  He thought that Mr F was left 
with enough of a cash reserve, as after investment he still had £4,388 available. 
The investigator thought the WGF Mr F was advised to invest in was in line with his medium 
risk appetite. He wasnt persuaded that because the PEP was considered unsuitable this 
meant Mr F didnt have investment experience. He said that whether a product was suitable 
or unsuitable the experience of holding it would be the same.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it appreciated the comment the 
investigator had made that the unsuitable PEP did give Mr F some experience. But it said 
that as a relatively inexperienced investor the risk of the WGF was too high especially as he 
had been advised to invest around 61% of his capital.
The investigator responded but didnt change his view and as the CMC still wanted an 
ombudsman to review the complaint the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators opinion and I am not upholding this 
complaint. The CMC seems to have accepted that the fact the PEP Mr F was advised to 
invest a monthly amount into, in 1996, was unsuitable doesnt mean he wouldnt have 
gained investment experience from holding it. However, for the avoidance of doubt Im 
satisfied that Mr F did have some investment experience as a result of having invested in the 
PEP. I think his experience would be the same whether the PEP was suitable or not.
The CMC said in response to the investigators opinion that the WGF fund the ISA was 
invested in was too risky for a relatively inexperienced investor such as Mr F. 
I note Mr F only paid a total of £570 into the PEP over 18 months but he still held the 
investment until 2011. So, as at the time of advice in 2000 he had four years of investment 
experience. Regardless of how much he had invested in the PEP he would still have seen 
what happened to his investment over that time. In the circumstances I think he had enough 
experience to understand and accept the risks of the investment he was advised to make 
into the WGF held in an ISA in 2000.
Furthermore, from what Lloyds has said, the investment in the PEP was also into the WGF. 
So, Mr F not only had investment experience, he had experience of investment in the actual 
fund that he was advised to invest £7,000 into in 2000. If that is accurate that gives further 
weight to my finding that he would have understood the risks of the WGF in 2000.  
The WGF was categorised in the fund literature I have seen as a medium risk fund. Mr F 
was recorded as being a medium risk investor in 2000 and Ive seen no persuasive evidence 
he was wrongly categorised as such given his investment experience and circumstances as 
at 2000. I have seen no evidence that persuades me that fund was unsuitable for Mr F as a 
medium risk investor.
Im not satisfied that Mr F was advised to invest too much of his available capital at the time. 
There is no evidence he had any planned short-term spending needs and the amount he 
had available after investment was enough as an emergency fund. There is nothing to 
suggest the investment was unaffordable given that he kept it until 2011.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman