DRN-3249964
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have declined her claim 
for accidental damage to the sunroof and electrics on her car.            
  
What happened
 Mrs K holds a motor insurance policy with Admiral.
Mrs K tells us that in March 2020 she accidentally tried to open her sunroof when it was 
covered in ice. She realised when she heard a cracking noise and turned it off. She thought 
that it had closed again correctly. Four weeks later Mrs K had a flat battery, which was 
replaced, but a week later the new battery was also dead. Her mechanic identified that water 
was leaking in through the sunroof and trickling down the window frame into a fuse box 
which was draining the battery. 
Mrs K then realised that she must have accidentally damaged the sunroof when she opened 
it and contacted Admiral. They initially said that this was an insurable event and arranged for 
an inspection. Subsequently they declined the claim advising that they thought the problem 
was caused by a lack of maintenance issue. 
Mrs K complained. Admiral looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. They did award her 
£25 for their initial mistake in advising it was an insurable event.  
Mrs K was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint and thought that Admiral had 
acted fairly.  
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im intending to reach a different conclusion on this complaint to our investigator. Because of 
that, this decision will be provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance to comment before I 
make a final decision.
Mrs K originally registered the claim as flood damage as she thought that was the nearest 
option on the website. However, this is not a flood damage claim. 
I think that the key question here is what most likely caused the damage to the sunroof 
which resulted in the leak. If as Mrs K claims, the damage was caused by her accidentally 
opening the sunroof, then there is an insurable event. If, however, the seal has deteriorated 
as a result of wear and tear over time, and that has caused the ingress of water, then 
Admiral are right and the resulting damage is not covered by the policy because wear and 
tear is excluded on page 8.  
I note that Admiral have included in their final response the very detailed account of Mrs Ks 
mechanic who has examined the car, traced the leak, and given an account of how he 
believes the ingress of water has occurred. His view was that following Mrs Ks attempt to 
open the sunroof, it didnt close properly and water got into the channel, froze, and lifted the 
frame of the sunroof. The distorted frame had allowed water to enter and run down the pillar 
at the side of the windscreen and into the fuse box. He explained that the sunroof is double 
skinned, and it was the inside skin which was causing the leak.  I think this is good evidence 
of what most likely happened, given by an experienced mechanic, after a full examination of 
the vehicle. It is also consistent with Mrs Ks testimony about her opening the sunroof in icy 
conditions and hearing a crack, and with the subsequent onset of electrical issues. 
 Admiral have noted this but confirmed that their engineer has reviewed the information and 
completed a visual assessment of the sunroof to note the condition and noted there was no 
visible damage. As such there is no insurable event. 
I have considered this and I am persuaded that the detailed explanation and testimony of 
Mrs Ks mechanic is the most likely explanation of what has happened. The photos and 
video show that he has exposed sufficient interior of the car to establish the cause of the 
problem, and that this was a more extensive investigation than the visual assessment by 
Admirals engineer. I also note that the comment that it was the inside skin causing the leak 
which may not have been visible on external assessment. I also consider that given the age 
of the car, wear and tear is a less likely explanation for the sudden onset of a leak of this 
nature.
I dont think that Admiral have done enough to rebut the mechanics assessment and show 
that no accidental damage occurred. They have attributed the leak to wear and tear/lack of 
maintenance without demonstrating that there was wear and tear to the sunroof seals 
causing the leak. 
I am therefore satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mrs K damaged the sunroof herself 
by trying to open it when it was covered in ice, and that consequently, there is damage 
caused by an accident which is covered under section 2 of the policy as an insured event.
I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct that Admiral pay Mrs K for the 
repairs to her car. I invited the parties to comment.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mrs K and Admiral a copy of my provisional decision. Mrs K has accepted the 
decision, and I have received no comments from Admiral.
 
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mrs Ks complaint and directing Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to reimburse Mrs K for the repairs to her car amounting to £4153.81. 
In addition, they should pay 8% simple interest from 4 May 2021 when Mrs K paid for the 
repairs until the date of the settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman