DRN-3172320
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Gladstone Brookes Limited (GB) failed to pursue a payment protection
insurance (PPI) claim which meant hes lost the opportunity to have his complaint
investigated. 
What happened
Mr M said that PPI was found on two of the accounts that he had with S, but he only
received compensation for mis-sold PPI for one of these. S said that Mr M hadnt submitted
his complaint for the other account before the August 2019 deadline set by the Financial
Conduct Authority. Mr M complained to GB.
GB said that theyd submitted Mr Ms letter of authority (LoA) to S before the August
deadline. GB said that S had confirmed the accounts that Mr M had a PPI policy for and
had asked for further information. GB said theyd submitted a letter of complaint (LoC) to S
in September 2019. But they hadnt sent all the information S had asked for. They said that
S had applied a 12-week response time for Mr Ms claim to be considered and as the
information hadnt been provided, it was now too late for Mr Ms claim to be looked into.
GB said that the 12-week response time was a suggested guideline and that S should still
consider Mr Ms claim as the LoA was submitted before the August deadline. But they
accepted their customer service had fallen below their standard and offered Mr M £250 for
the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M wasnt happy with GBs response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator agreed that Mr M had suffered a loss of opportunity but said the £250
offered by GB was fair and in line with our approach.
Mr M didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
A provisional decision was issued in November 2021 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint.
Its not in dispute that GB failed to send S the further information theyd asked for. And by
failing to do so, I think its clear Mr Ms claim was closed by S without the claim being fully
investigated. So, Im satisfied that GB have acted unfairly, and that Mr M should be
compensated for this.
What is in dispute is the value of the compensation GB has offered. Mr M doesnt think
the £250 offered by GB is fair, as he believes he would have significantly more than this if
S had fully investigated his claim. I understand from Mr M that hes asked the Financial
Ombudsman Service to consider whether S has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions
with him. I cant consider Mr Ms complaint about S as the Claims Management
Ombudsman can only look at the actions of the CMC, in this case GB, and what theyve
done.
Mr Ms main dispute centres around the potential for his PPI claim with S to have been
successful if GB had provided S with the information they asked for. I can see that S
asked for this information 6 September 2019, and that GB asked Mr M to provide the details
needed the following day. But the LoC GB sent to S, 14 September 2019, only related to
Mr Ms loan ending *6449. They didnt send the information about his loan ending *7704.
Its not in dispute that both accounts had PPI. And I can see that S agreed that loan *6449
had been mis-sold and they offered Mr S compensation for this. They also confirmed that Mr
M had PPI for loan *7704. The PPI was taken out in July 2003 and cancelled in May 2006.
The account having PPI doesnt mean Mr Ms claim that hed been mis-sold PPI for his loan
account *7704 would have been successful. As well as PPI being located on an account, S
would also have needed to decide whether this PPI was mis-sold. And they were unable to
do so, as they closed the claim before confirming their decision on this.
Im unable to speculate on whether the claim would have been upheld. But I do agree that by
GB failing to send the information to S Mr M has lost the opportunity for his claim to be fully
investigated. And I think GB should compensate Mr M for this.
GB has offered Mr M compensation of £250, and this would be in line with our approach
when there has been a loss of opportunity. But in this case Mr M has shown that PPI had
been applied to his loan account *7704. And that payments had been made for several
years. Hes also shown that the same lender has confirmed that theyd mis-sold PPI to him
on another account. So, I think Mr M would have expected a similar outcome for a PPI claim
made against his account *7704. So, I think it would have been upsetting to know that GB
hadnt submitted his LoC before the deadline date.
I know Mr M thinks GB should reimburse him the compensation he could have received if his
complaint had been fully investigated by S. But as I outlined above, I cant know if that
claim would have been successful as there are several factors that S would have needed
to consider. But I do think that the £250 offered by GB doesnt sufficiently reflect the upset 
caused to Mr M and I think they should offer an additional £250  in total £500 for the trouble
and upset caused.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise Mr M wont feel
as though this addresses his potential financial loss, or his feeling of being let down by GB.
But this decision focuses solely on the actions of GB, and what I think they should do to
recognise the errors they made. Any issues Mr M has regarding the service of S have I
understand been raised separately. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr M and GB accepted my provisional decision and didnt ask for any further 
comments to be considered.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Gladstone Brookes Limited to pay Mr M in total £500 for the 
loss of opportunity in pursuing his PPI claim, and for the trouble and upset this caused to 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman