DRN-1993506
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him two 
packaged bank accounts, the first called an Advantage Gold account and the second called 
a Select Platinum account. 
NatWest charged Mr M monthly fees for both accounts and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Mr M thinks that NatWest should compensate him for the fees he paid.
What happened
Mr M has banked with NatWest for a long time. NatWest has sent us information about his 
account history, which shows that:
in 2004, Mr M opened a fee-free account, 
in May 2005, NatWest sold Mr M the Advantage Gold account, which replaced his 
fee-free account and for which it charged a monthly fee, 
in July 2015, NatWest switched Mr M to the Select Platinum Account and continued 
to charge a monthly fee.
I understand that in March 2020, at Mr Ms request, NatWest switched him to a different 
account, called a Reward account, which had a lower fee than the Select Platinum account.
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that we could consider the part of Mr Ms complaint about the Advantage Gold account 
because he had brought it to us too late; and thought that NatWest had treated Mr M fairly 
when it switched him to the Select Platinum account. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr M and NatWest have told us or sent us about the complaint, and I have 
decided that I do not have the authority to consider the way NatWest sold the Advantage 
Gold account to Mr M as he brought it to us too late; and that NatWest treated him fairly 
when it switched him to the Select Platinum account. Ive explained why I reached my 
decision below, but as my findings for the two parts of Mr Ms complaint are very different, I 
have described them separately.
The Advantage Gold account (2005)
The Financial Conduct Authority has set rules both for how financial businesses should 
handle complaints and how long customers then have to bring complaints to us if they 
are not satisfied with what a business has said. 
Amongst other things, these rules tell financial businesses that when they have 
finished investigating a complaint, they have to send customers a final response. The 
rules then give customers six months from the date of the final response to bring a 
complaint to us. This is often known as the six-month rule. 
NatWest has told us that Mr M first complained about the Advantage Gold account in 
2015. It has sent us a copy of a final response letter it sent him at that time. The letter 
is dated March 2015. Towards the end of the letter, it contains a paragraph which 
says: 
 If you are unhappy with my decision you have the right to go to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS). I have enclosed a leaflet providing further details of the 
FOS and any referral to them should be made within six months of the date of this 
letter.
Mr M brought his complaint to us during 2020, which was clearly outside the six-month 
rule.
I have not seen any exceptional circumstance which may have allowed me to consider 
this part of Mr Ms complaint, despite the six-month rule. And NatWest has not agreed 
to waive the rule for Mr M. So, I havent considered the way NatWest sold the 
Advantage Gold account to Mr M as I dont have authority to do so.
The Select Platinum account (2015) 
During 2015, NatWest decided to withdraw Advantage Gold accounts from its 
customers. It did this for commercial reasons and along with other banks it is allowed 
to make changes like this. However, to treat Mr M fairly, I would have expected it to tell 
him what was happening, give him fair notice and allow him reasonable choices if he 
wasnt happy with NatWests intentions.
NatWest has told us that in 2015 it wrote to all customers about the changes it was 
making and has sent us an example letter from the time. Im satisfied that it sent such 
a letter to Mr M. The letter: 
explained that it was moving Mr M to the Select Platinum account because it was 
similar to the Advantage Gold account,
described the main differences in the benefits the two accounts could provide,
told Mr M about the monthly fee for the Select Platinum account.
The letter also explained to Mr M that if he didnt think the Select Platinum account 
was right for him, he could visit one of NatWests branches or ring a central number to 
discuss other accounts, including some without a monthly fee.
It seems to me that NatWest met its obligations to Mr M when it sent hm this letter and 
treated him fairly in switching him to the Select Platinum account. So, in summary I havent considered the way NatWest sold the Advantage Gold account to 
Mr M as I dont have authority to do so. And I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the Select 
Platinum account to Mr M.
(In the course of our investigation into this complaint, Mr M has mentioned bank charges 
which NatWest raised on his account, which he thinks may have been unfair. He hasnt sent 
us many details of these charges and I am not sure if he is referring to the regular monthly 
fees for the Advantage Gold and Select Platinum accounts or to other charges, which I have 
covered here, or to other charges. If he means other charges, then I would I would like to 
clarify that I have not considered them within this decision. Mr M is therefore free to raise 
any complaint he wishes to make about them with NatWest. However, I cannot give him any 
advice about this, or speculate on how NatWest may respond or what the outcome may be. 
Nor do I know if any complaint Mr M may subsequently wish to bring to us will fall inside or 
outside the rules that determine which complaints we can consider). 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that National 
Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold two packaged bank accounts to him. I am not going to tell it 
to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman