DRN-4423659
The complaint
Mr L, a director of L (a limited company), complains that Tide Platform Ltd wont reimburse L 
for the money it lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
L had an account with Tide which has since been closed.
In February 2023 Mr L says he received a call, apparently from Tide, saying that there had 
been fraudulent activity on Ls account and that he needed to move the funds in it to a new 
safe account. Mr L says he checked the number hed been called from and it matched 
Tides number, and that the person he spoke to knew information about him and recent 
transactions on the account. He believed the call was genuine as a result, and he was 
scared too. He says he made two payments  of £50,000 and £25,000  as a result. He says 
he subsequently discovered that hed been scammed and contacted Tide.
Tide looked into Mr Ls request for a refund. Having done so, it said it couldnt help. Mr L was 
unhappy with Tides response, complained about this and then complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ls complaint and said that Tide should have done more 
to intervene as the £50,000 payment was unusual given the amount involved when 
compared to previous usage and the fact that it was to a new beneficiary. So, they 
recommended that Tide refund both payments together with 8% interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Tide disagreed with our investigators recommendations saying that the payment wasnt 
unusual and noted that Mr L had ignored the fact that the payee didnt match and a warning 
on the one-time passcode sent prior to the first payment going out. Following further 
exchanges with our investigator, Tide accepted that it could and should have done more, but 
said Mr L should share responsibility for the loss. So, it offered a 50% refund. As Mr L didnt 
accept, and our investigator thought that Tide should refund both payments in full, Ls 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a decision. The complaint was passed to me.
L complained about a number of other transfers which our investigated didnt think should be 
refunded as they appeared to be genuine payments. Those payments no longer appear to 
be disputed  and I dont disagree with our investigator either  so Im not going to say any 
more about them. Instead, Im going to focus on the two payments Mr L made as a result of 
what everyone accepts was a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The majority of the facts in this complaint arent in dispute. Mr L authorised both payments 
on behalf of L  albeit as a result of being scammed  which means L is responsible for them 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Because of this, L is not automatically 
entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also 
sets out a requirement for account providers to protect their customers from fraud and 
financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might 
suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character 
transactions and trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams.
Tide now accepts that it could and should have done more in order to act fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with L. It accepts, for example, that the first payment of £50,000 
was sufficiently unusual for it to have intervened. It also accepts that it missed an opportunity 
to prevent loss to L. But it says that L should bear some responsibility too, primarily because 
when Mr L tried to make the first payment he was notified  via confirmation of payee  that 
the details hed put in were no match. In addition, he was warned that this could be a scam 
in the one-time passcode that he was sent to authenticate the payment.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr L fell victim to a sophisticated scam, he was contacted on 
phone numbers that appeared to be genuine Tide numbers. In the circumstances of the 
scam  including the real fear that he might lose a significant amount of Ls money  I can 
understand why the fraud went undetected by Mr L With the benefit of hindsight, there may 
have been some red flags (for example the mismatch in the confirmation of payee and the 
message sent with the one-time passcode) that Mr L couldve picked up on, particularly if 
hed had more time to think. But the scam took place over a relatively short period of time 
and in a pressured situation. This is of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudsters to create 
fear  in the hope it would disrupt Mr Ls thinking and make him more compliant. On 
balance, Im satisfied that in the circumstances Mr Ls actions were not unreasonable.Putting things right
Given the above, I agree that Tide ought to refund both payments as it missed an 
opportunity to prevent loss to L. I also agree that it wouldnt be fair to make any deduction.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Tide Platform Ltd to 
refund both payments in full  minus any funds already recovered  plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman