DRN-3237662
The complaint
Mr E and Miss D are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined their 
claim for storm damage under their buildings and contents insurance policy. The policy was 
in joint names but, for ease and because he dealt with the claim, Ill refer mainly to Mr E 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr E made a claim under his Home Emergency policy when he noticed water coming into 
his home after a storm. The insurer replaced the dislodged roof slates and some lead, which 
Mr E says resolved the problem. He then made a claim under his buildings and contents 
policy with Fairmead for the water damage inside his home. Fairmead appointed a surveyor 
to assess the damage. The surveyor reported that there was no evidence of storm damage 
and the water ingress was due to the damaged chimney roughcast. Fairmead declined Mr 
Es claim.
Mr E asked for another opinion because he didnt think the surveyor had assessed the 
damage properly and his experience with them had been poor. Fairmead appointed a 
second surveyor, who reported that the water ingress had happened over time and wasnt 
due to a one-off event. Fairmead declined Mr Es claim, but it offered him £100 
compensation by way of apology for the poor experience hed had.
Mr E complained to Fairmead. He said the storm damage was repaired which was why there 
was no evidence of it. He also pointed out that the evidence of roughcast damage was on 
his neighbours side of the chimney, so it wouldnt be affecting his property. Fairmead sent 
Mr E a final response saying it declined his claim because the policy didnt provided cover 
for water ingress under accidental damage.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had treated Mr E fairly. He said the evidence showed 
that the water ingress stopped once the roof slates were replaced, so it was unlikely that 
chimney damage was the main cause. Our investigator also thought Fairmead had unfairly 
declined to consider the claim as storm damage because the windspeed was just 1mph 
below its storm definition. He recommended that Fairmead settle the claim under the storm 
damage conditions and proposed an increase in the compensation payment to £250 in 
recognition of the additional, avoidable distress and inconvenience Mr E and Miss D suffered 
because of this matter.  
Fairmead didnt agree. It said the photos clearly showed damage to the chimney which 
would account for the water ingress. It also repeated that there wasnt a storm around the 
time of the claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether Fairmead declined Mr Es claim fairly, for the reason it gave and 
in line with the policy. So, Ive looked at the policy to see what it covers. Im satisfied that 
storm damage is covered, but also that Fairmead correctly said the policy doesnt cover 
water ingress under accidental damage. I dont think either of these points are disputed.
The issue, then, is that Fairmead considered Mr Es claim under accidental damage instead 
of storm damage. Thats because Fairmead said there wasnt any evidence of a storm 
around the time of the claim.
Both Mr E and Fairmead are aware of the three considerations for a storm damage claim. Ill 
address each in turn.
Was there a storm?
The policy defines a storm as: 
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/ 75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail 
of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Fairmead provided weather data which showed a windspeed of 46mph a couple of days 
before Mr Es claim. I agree that the evidence doesnt meet Fairmeads storm definition and I 
can see why it didnt consider the claim as storm damage. Im satisfied that was in line with 
the policy, so Ive gone on to think about whether it was fair in the circumstances. 
Weather data is a useful tool to consider when determining the presence of a storm, but it 
can only give a broad representation of the weather depending on where the measurement 
is taken. The peak gust of wind directly around Mr Es home couldve been more, or less, 
than the recorded speed Fairmead relied on. Looking at data from another reliable weather 
site, the peak gust of wind for the same day was recorded as 53mph, which falls firmly within 
the definition of strong gale force winds and was recorded as a dry storm.
It's worth noting that heavy rainfall was also recorded in the days after the strong winds.
All of this information tells me that there were strong gale force winds and heavy rain around 
the time Mr E made his claim for water ingress. So, while the data Fairmead relied on to 
determine whether there was a storm fell slightly short of its storm definition, the wider 
picture suggests there was a storm. For that reason, I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Fairmead to consider Mr Es claim under the storm peril rather than accidental damage.
  
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Looking again at reliable meteorological information, I can see that strong gale force winds 
can cause slight structural damage, such as removal of chimney pots and slates. Given that 
this matches exactly the damage to Mr Es roof  loss of roof slates  its reasonable to 
conclude that the damage was typical of that caused by a storm of this strength.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Mr Es claim was that a storm blew slates from his roof and he only became aware of that 
when he found water ingress. The heavy rainfall happened a day or two after the strong gale 
force winds, which ties in with Mr Es claim that he noticed the water ingress first and later 
found it was due to the lost slates.I see that Mr E had the slates replaced under his Home Emergency cover and the roofer 
confirmed to Mr E that the damage was due to the storm conditions. 
I replaced three slates that were missing due to storm damage as the wind had blew them 
off, I sealed around the lead raggle on the chimney breast as water would be getting in 
around the chimney.
The roofer saw and repaired the roof damage, so I think its fair to place significant weight on 
this report and the repair they felt was necessary to prevent further water ingress. That ties 
in with Mr Es claim and it also explains why Fairmeads surveyors didnt see evidence of 
storm damage.
But Fairmeads surveyors said that the chimney was still damaged and that was the cause of 
the water ingress. Ive looked at the photos provided by both parties, and I can see some 
damage to the roughcast of the chimney. However, it appears to be minimal and the missing 
piece is from the side belonging to Mr Es neighbour. So, I accept his view that its unlikely to 
be the cause of the damage. Indeed, Mr E provided video footage of his home to 
demonstrate that the water ingress stopped, despite not having any repairs to his chimney. 
While I cant reach any firm conclusions from the video, Im persuaded that the water ingress 
stopped. Thats because I see no benefit to him, otherwise, of redecorating  which is clear 
from the video  or limiting his claim to one-off damage if it was still happening. 
 
In summary, Im satisfied that there is evidence of storm conditions around the time Mr Es 
roof slates fell and that the water ingress was caused by that storm damage. Therefore, I 
dont think Fairmead treated Mr E fairly when it considered and declined his claim under 
accidental damage rather than the storm peril. To correct this, I think its reasonable that 
Fairmead considers his claim under the storm damage section of the policy.
Compensation
Mr E complained to Fairmead about the service he received from the first surveyor. And 
because the water ingress wasn't dealt with, he and Miss D moved into alternative 
accommodation to provide a better environment for the arrival of their family. Both parties 
are aware of Mr E and Miss Ds circumstances so, to protect their privacy, I wont go into 
detail here. But, having considered the information Mr E provided, I can see why this matter 
wouldve caused him additional concern and inconvenience. 
The nature of the damage wouldve always caused some inconvenience, but I dont think 
Fairmead handled the claim as well as Mr E couldve expected. It acknowledged that Mr E 
had a poor experience with the first surveyor and offered £100 compensation. But looking at 
the overall circumstances, it seems that Fairmead failed to consider the simple fact that Mr E 
had repairs completed promptly using his Home Emergency cover. 
I can see Mr Es Home Emergency cover says:
We will send a repairer to assess the situation and carry out emergency work arising 
from:
3. Storm damage causing water to enter your home or likely to cause further loss or 
damage to your home or its contents.
The roof repair was carried out, suggesting it was storm damage and by doing so the risk of 
further damage was minimised. But it meant the evidence was removed. Im satisfied that Mr 
Es account of events is persuasive, and I think Fairmead couldve done more to consider 
this. So, in light of the additional inconvenience and distress Mr E experienced, I think 
compensation of £250, as recommended by our investigator, is warranted.For clarity, I havent considered the issue of alternative accommodation because Fairmead 
must first have an opportunity to respond directly to Mr E about that matter when it considers 
his overall claim. 
Overall, I understand that Fairmead didnt consider Mr Es claim under the cover for storm 
damage because the weather conditions at the time fell 1mph short of its policy definition of 
a storm. However, in the circumstances, I think it shouldve looked into the matter further, 
especially as Mr Es Home Emergency insurer had already replaced the roof slates, and he 
reported that water ingress stopped once that repair was done. So, Ive decided that 
Fairmead should consider Mr Es claim under the policy as storm damage. In addition, it 
should pay compensation of £250 for the inconvenience and distress this matter caused Mr 
E and Miss D at an already vulnerable time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr E and Miss Ds complaint. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
consider their claim under storm peril in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy, and
pay a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E 
and Miss D at an already vulnerable time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman