DRN-2655122
The complaint
Mr H complains that ReAssure Limited (when it was trading as Legal & General Assurance 
Society Limited) mis-sold him a personal pension.
What happened
Mr H took out a personal pension plan through ReAssure in 1987. He stopped contributing to 
the plan in 2002. He took some advice on the plan in 2019, and was disappointed to find that 
its value was significantly lower than the projections hed been given when he first took it out. 
Mr H considered the plan had been mis-sold and complained to ReAssure. The business 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the advice to take out the plan was suitable based on Mr Hs circumstances in 1987. The 
investigator didnt find that the pension projections were guaranteed, and she wasnt 
persuaded that ReAssure should be held responsible for investments not performing as 
expected. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied that ReAssures advice to take out the pension plan in 1987 was suitable for Mr 
H. He was 23 years old, working, and didnt have any other pension provision in place. It is 
generally accepted that starting to make pension contributions as early as possible can be 
beneficial, because it maximises the period of time over which investment returns can be 
made. In the absence of an employers pension scheme which Mr H could join, the plan 
wasnt unsuitable for the purpose of saving towards retirement provision.
I can understand why Mr H was disappointed when the value of his fund was significantly 
lower than the projections hed been given in 1987. 
But Im not persuaded that ReAssure gave any guarantees about what the plan would pay. 
The figures quoted in the handwritten notes from ReAssures adviser are described as 
estimates, and figures in ReAssures annual updates were quoted as illustrations. 
The Important Notes enclosed with the annual updates said that what would actually be 
payable would depend on a number of factors, including bonuses and the future movement 
in unit prices of the investment funds - which could go down as well as up. It also assumed 
that Mr H would continue to make payments to the plan until his set retirement date.
The illustrations used two different assumed rates of growth and inflation. They were 
reflective of general conditions in financial markets at the time, including interest and inflation 
rates. But actual conditions in the market have, in fact, performed differently to what was 
anticipated in the illustrations. That would explain why the value of Mr Hs pension plan is 
lower than he was expecting.
From what Ive seen Im not persuaded that ReAssure has done anything wrong, either in 
the illustrations it produced, or in the way it has invested Mr Hs pension fund. The plan was 
invested primarily in equities  or stocks and shares. And whilst the stock markets have 
more recently performed well, there have been many years since 1987 when this wasnt the 
case.  
For example, there was over a decade, since the previous FTSE 100 peak in 1999, before 
that index again exceeded that value, in no small part due to the financial downturn in the 
early 2000s and then the financial crisis of 2008/09, both of which had a significant impact 
on the value of equities, and which have taken time to recover.
As Mr H stopped contributing to the plan 2002 this will have also affected its ability to 
produce the returns required to support the level of pension Mr H was seeking.
I realise that the value of Mr Hs fund is disappointing to him. But Im not persuaded that 
ReAssure is responsible for the poor performance of his fund. For that reason, I wont be 
upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman