DRN-2218266
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) decision to pay 
for a third party claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H was involved in an accident with another driver in April 2019. She was parked on the 
side of the road, waiting to join the traffic. She thought the other driver was allowing her to 
enter the traffic, but when she started to move the two cars made contact. Mrs H said the 
damage to both cars was minor  thats why she hadnt claimed for the damage to her car, 
or had it repaired.
Mrs H held a comprehensive car insurance policy with LV. She told LV that she wanted to 
have the option of paying for the other drivers repairs privately. But when the other driver 
made a claim on her policy under third party cover, LV settled it as a fault claim. LV said this 
was because the policy terms allowed LV to have total control to settle any claim, and Mrs H 
had accepted liability for the incident.
The total claim amount was over £4,000. Mrs H wasnt happy with this as she said the 
amount wasnt consistent with damage caused by the accident. The settlement also included 
the cost of a hire car for the third party  Mrs H considered the amount to be unreasonably 
high.
LV compared the damage between the two cars, and concluded the damage was consistent 
with the two cars making contact. LV didnt have any concerns about the amount claimed.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Hs complaint. She didnt think LV had done anything 
wrong, because it had looked at the damage to both cars, and its engineer considered these 
to be consistent with the cars making contact. She didnt think LV had unfairly settled the 
claim in the way that it did. She noted that there was as delay in LV responding to Mrs Hs 
letters, but it had already offered Mrs H £100 in compensation, which she thought was fair 
and reasonable.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she doesnt think the 
damage the third party claimed for was caused by this accident. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is that Mrs H doesnt think the damage the third party claimed for was 
caused by the accident in question. Mrs H says the damage caused in that accident was 
limited to a small dent in the front right wheel arch of her car, and very small dents to the 
passenger and rear door of the third partys car. But the damage consistency report LVs 
engineer completed said the damage to Mrs Hs car was in the right front bumper corner, 
and the damage to the third partys car was in the left front corner.
Ive thought about what Mrs H has said about the damage. But Ive also taken into account 
that the consistency report says the damage appears consistent with the two vehicles 
making contact. The engineer report of the third partys car also concluded that the car had 
suffered damage to the left-hand front, and the photos of the car supported that. LV 
inspected Mrs Hs car and compared the damage in both cars.
Overall, I dont think LV acted unreasonably in relying on its engineers report when it 
concluded that the damage was consistent with the two cars making contact.
Mrs H has since sent us a letter from her garage confirming that they didnt think the damage 
in Mrs Hs car was consistent with the damage and costs of the third partys car. Ive 
considered this letter, but Im more persuaded by the engineer reports LV has provided. I 
say this because the repair report for the third partys car includes a detailed list of parts 
needed to repair it, and Ive seen an invoice showing the cost of those parts. And Ive 
already said I dont think LV acted unreasonably in relying on the damage consistency 
report. So, this letter doesnt change my findings.
LV had already settled the claim before it had inspected Mrs Hs vehicle. And I accept Mrs H 
had wanted to have the option to pay for the third partys damage privately. But under the 
policy terms, LV is entitled to have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim. 
And when Mrs H raised concerns about the claim, LV offered to inspect Mrs Hs car and 
carry out a full consistency check. LV also said Mrs H can buy back the claim by reimbursing 
it for the amount it paid on the claim. I think LV acted reasonably here, and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
LV didnt have any concerns about the amounts claimed for repairs or the cost of the hire 
car. It said the costs were in line with that of a low impact collision. Ive seen the report and 
invoice for repair costs, as well as a full breakdown for the claim cost  including the hire car. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think LV acted fairly and reasonably in settling the third 
partys claim.
LV already accepted there was a delay in responding to Mrs Hs letters. She wrote to LV in 
July and August, but LV didnt acknowledge her letters until October, and it responded in 
November. LV offered £100 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H has said she hasnt cashed the cheque  and it might now be too late to do so. So, I 
think LV should cancel and re-issue the cheque.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs H 
£100, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman