DRN-2162232
The complaint
Ms A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Finance, sold a car she had been financing through an agreement with them, but without her 
permission. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
This service issued a decision in April 2018 that covered some of the issues Ms A has been 
concerned about. So, I wont be reconsidering those issues, but I will look at the new issues 
Ms A has raised.
could VWFS sell the car?
The terms of Ms As finance agreement said she must not allow the vehicle to be seized. But 
it was, as police seized it when it wasnt insured. Ms A was therefore in breach of the terms 
of her finance agreement and, in those circumstances, the agreement explained that the 
business may terminate her finance agreement and sell the car to offset what they were 
owed. 
The car remained the property of VWFS and having terminated the agreement I dont think 
they did anything wrong when selling it at auction. They didnt have to tell Ms A they were 
doing so.
should they have contacted Ms A for the spare key?
The vehicle sold for a little more than expected at auction, so it doesnt seem that the 
missing spare key had an impact on the sale.
The terms of Ms As contract allowed VWFS to charge her if the car wasnt returned to them 
in a satisfactory condition and they may therefore have attempted to charge Ms A for the 
missing spare key. But they didnt, so, even if the missing key did have an impact on the 
sales price, that would have been offset by VWFS not charging Ms A for its absence.
are VWFS right to pursue the debt?
Ms A is unhappy that VWFS are still sending letters to her in pursuit of the debt they say she 
has with them.
VWFS have explained thats because there is still a portion of the debt that hasnt been 
repaid.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the outstanding debt VWFS are still seeking to 
recover has been paid in full. Ms A didnt refer to it in her complaint to VWFS or her referral 
to this service. If she believes the debt that VWFS are still trying to recover is incorrect she 
will need to make a complaint about that to VWFS in the first instance so that they have a 
chance to consider its merits. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman