DRN-4344971
The complaint
Mr P complains Azzurro Associates Limited:
Didnt tell him theyd taken over his debt
Sent him a letter addressed incorrectly with incorrect information in it
Incorrectly registered a default his account - and didnt send the default 
correspondence by email
Incorrectly registered the start date of his account
Have prevented him from lowering the balance on his account
Told a Credit Reference Agency (CRA), who Ill call E, that he needed to contact a 
debt recovery company, who Ill call M, which breached his data and caused 
embarrassment
Have lied to him in their final response letter
Delayed contacting him and not addressed all of the issues hes raised
Used the £150 compensation our Investigator recommended to reduce his debt, 
rather than paying it to him directly
These complaints were separated into two different case files with our service, but for 
simplicity Ill be considering all the issues Mr P has raised in this one case.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
As I understand it in December 2018 Mr P took out a loan for £2,000 with a company Ill call 
1. The interest on this loan was £2,740.72  meaning the total amount due to be repaid over 
the life of the loan was £4,740.72. The first payment to 1 was made and then returned in 
January 2019. From the information I have no payments were made to the loan. Because of 
that, 1 defaulted the account in July 2019, and then sold the debt to Azzurro to collect.
The information I have shows Azzurro took over the account on 30 August 2019, and they 
asked M to act on their behalf in collecting payments towards the debt. The debt showing as 
owed was the same as the one Mr P owed when he first took out the loan - £4,740.72.
Across a number of emails Mr P raised his concerns (listed above) to Azzurro.
Overall, Azzurro didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so didnt uphold Mr Ps complaints.
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, 
and partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. They awarded £150 compensation.
Mr P didnt accept this, and Ive addressed what I consider to be his key arguments below. 
Azzurro said while they didnt accept all of the conclusions made, they were willing to accept 
the outcome in the spirit of goodwill to move this matter forward. Azzurro reduced Mr Ps 
debt by £150.
Mr P felt the £150 should have been paid to him directly. Our Investigator also felt this  but 
explained given Mr P didnt agree with the overall outcome itd be best at this stage for the 
Ombudsman to decide what needed to happen next. So, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ps complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I should also explain Mr P has asked us at various times to check if what Azzurro have done 
is legal, and to speak to other bodies such as the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if 
necessary. My remit though doesnt allow me to make any legal findings, so I cant say if 
Azzurro have acted illegally or not. And having considered Mr Ps case Ive not found it 
necessary to speak to any external parties about his specific issues in order to fulfil my remit 
 which is to resolve things on a fair and reasonable basis.
Azzurro didnt tell Mr P theyd taken over his debt
Its common practice for lenders to sell accounts which may have fallen into arrears or have 
defaulted. So, Azzurro as a debt purchaser at face value havent done anything wrong.
But the lender and the debt purchaser (Azzurro here) are required to send the account 
holder a Notice of Assignment (NoA). This lets the account holder know their account has 
been passed on to a different company, and its that company theyd need to speak to 
regarding the operation of their account now. This also tells them that, effectively, Azzurro 
are now acting as the lender for his loan (although, they wouldnt be responsible for actions 
the actual lender took).
A NoA was sent in Mr Ps case. Its dated 13 September 2019 and is addressed to the same 
address Mr P has given to Azzurro, and our service. I dont know why Mr P didnt receive it, 
but as Azzurro have sent the letter to Mr P, I cant reasonably hold them responsible if it 
didnt arrive.
Sent him a letter addressed incorrectly with incorrect information in it
The letter Mr P is referring to is the NoA. Azzurro have told our service they instructed M to 
create the NoA. So, because of that, theyre ultimately responsible for the contents of the 
letter.
In the response to his complaint, Mr P was provided with a copy of the NoA. The letter itself 
is addressed to someone entirely different, and says the debt was taken on in May 2019.
These are two errors  as the NoA should be addressed to the account holder and wasnt, 
and Azzurro took over the debt on 30 August 2019, not May 2019.That means Ill be upholding this element and will consider the best way forward in the 
Putting things right section at the end.
Incorrectly registered a default on his account  and didnt send the default by email
When Azzurro took over the loan they say the information they were given by 1 showed no 
default had been applied to the account. Information provided by 1 which they say was sent 
to Azzurro shows the date and amount of the default  although its unclear when this 
information from 1 was shared with Azzurro.
Mr P says Azzurro specialise in taking over defaulted debts, so knew his account had been 
defaulted by 1 previously and this meant he had two defaults with the CRAs now which 
wasnt fair.
Mr P is correct in that he did have two defaults now, as his account had been defaulted by 1 
on 25 July 2019. This was incorrect, as I wouldnt usually expect two separate defaults to be 
recorded for the same account. So, Ive looked at the information Azzurro initially received 
from 1  and I agree with them it does show Mr Ps account hadnt been defaulted. Ive 
noted Mr Ps comments about Azzurro specialising in purchasing defaulted accounts, but 
Ive seen nothing to suggest they exclusively buy defaulted accounts so should have known 
Mr Ps account had already been defaulted. 
Azzurros explanation for defaulting the account in July 2022 was because theyd carried out 
a review of all non-defaulted accounts and decided whether to default them or not. In Mr Ps 
case, this led to them defaulting his account when hed already had a default registered by 1.
I should make it clear based on the information Azzurro were relying on, defaulting the 
account itself was fair  but I dont think the date of the default was. The ICO issues 
guidance which says an account should be defaulted no sooner than three months after the 
terms of the agreement arent met, and no later than six months.
In Mr Ps case, it seems no payments were ever successfully made to the loan taken out in 
December 2018. With that in mind, Id have expected the default to have been applied 
between April and July 2019. Azzurro though registered it in July 2022.
Ultimately though, the error that led to Azzurro recording the default at all isnt something I 
think is their responsibility  so I wont be upholding this element of Mr Ps complaint. 
In relation to the way the default notice was sent, this was done by post. As before, why 
Mr P didnt receive it I dont know, but default notices are required to be sent in the post  
which is why Azzurro did that. I can see Mr Ps point, which is if theyd sent it by email then 
hed have had it in seconds. But, I cant say Azzurro have done something wrong in not 
emailing the default notice, when actually they werent required to do so.
Ive seen that Azzurro have since, after receiving confirmation from 1 the account had been 
defaulted by them, updated the date of the default with the CRAs to the correct date of 
25 July 2019 meaning Mr P now only has one default registered for this account, and for the 
correct date. Ive also seen no delays in them doing so once they were notified of the correct 
information. 
Incorrectly registered the start date of his account
The start date of Mr Ps loan was recorded as 7 December 2018 by Azzurro, but he said he 
didnt recognise a loan taken out on this date. He said hed only taken out a loan on 
6 December 2018 with 1  so he asked for this to be updated.Azzurro say they relied on the same tranche of information they were given by 1 which said 
there was no default to also record the start date of the loan  so they didnt do anything 
wrong in recording the start date as 7 December 2018.
Ive checked the information they were given, and it does show Azzurro were told the start 
date of the loan was 7 December 2018. This information is the first information given to 
Azzurro when taking over Mr Ps accounts, along with a number of others. So, I think its 
natural that Azzurro would use this information to inform their reporting. 
When Mr P has raised complaints, I can see Azzurro have had to liaise with 1 to address 
some of the concerns raised. I think as part of these discussions Azzurro probably were 
made aware the start date of the loan was 6 December, instead of 7 December.
But, without Mr P having raised this issue, this isnt something Id necessarily expect Azzurro 
to have recognised as a problem. So, although I think 1 had given Azzurro information for 
them to have potentially been aware the date was wrong (which is what our Investigator has 
told Mr P), I dont think Azzurro acted unfairly in not considering this until Mr P raised it.
When he did though, Ive noted Azzurro didnt raise a new complaint for him. Ill come back 
to this later.
One of our Investigators did consider this specific issue  and felt there was enough 
information to show the start date of the loan was 6 December 2018, so Azzurro should 
update it. They confirmed in their response they have.
Overall then I dont think Azzurro did anything wrong with recording the date they did  and 
have updated it appropriately. Ill deal with their lack of engagement with Mr P in a later 
section.
Have prevented him from lowering the balance on his account
Mr P has made what I consider to be two key representations here. The first being that the 
interest on the loan was £2,740.72  so with the account having been defaulted in less than 
six months why does he owe all of the interest, plus the amount borrowed of £2,000. 
The second is that because he says Azzurro didnt tell him about the debt and / or didnt 
contact him about the repayment of it for at least two years, hes been denied the opportunity 
to put a plan in place and lower the balance.
In relation to the first issue, this isnt something Azzurro are responsible for  itd be 1 Mr P 
would have to take this up with. The information Ive got shows 1 added the full interest 
amount to the loan up front meaning its this amount that they sold to Azzurro as owed. 
Given that was the amount sold to Azzurro, and theyre not responsible for the way the 
interest was applied, I cant say they should reduce the balance.
Regarding the second point I do understand Mr Ps thoughts. But, as Ive mentioned above, 
it seems the NoA was sent to him at his correct address. I dont know why he didnt receive 
it, but I cant say Azzurro did anything wrong as it was sent to his registered address. Ive 
seen Mr P say he wasnt living at the address at time  but the evidence Ive been provided 
with show 1 told him Mr Ps current address was the same address they sent the NoA to. So, 
I dont think Azzurro did anything wrong leading to Mr P being denied the opportunity to 
make payments. 
Overall then, I dont uphold these elements of Mr Ps complaint so dont require Azzurro to 
lower the outstanding balance, or write it off entirely, as Mr P has requested.Azzurro told E that he needed to contact M, which breached his data and caused 
embarrassment
When Mr P raised a question to E about the incorrect default date, it seems Azzurros 
response was to direct Mr P to their agent who was managing the debt on their behalf  M.
Mr P says this caused embarrassment and is a data breach. Mr P also says at the time of 
Azzurros reply M were no longer dealing with his account.
Ive considered this carefully. Mr P hasnt specified exactly why or how this would have 
caused embarrassment. He was contacting E regarding a defaulted account. E, as a CRA, 
hold a significant amount of personal financial data about millions of people  which will 
regularly include adverse information people may not want shared with other parties. But, as 
E already know Mr P had a default, its unclear to me how Azzurro telling E that Mr P needed 
to contact M could cause him embarrassment.
In respect of this being a data breach, as Ive mentioned above its not uncommon to find a 
debt purchaser (Azzurro) asking an agent to manage an account on their behalf (M). So, I 
dont think Azzurro have done anything wrong on this point in their response to E.
I do though agree with Mr P that when Azzurro told E that Mr P had to speak to M, the 
account was no longer with M based on what they told him. So, Ill be upholding this element 
of Mr Ps case and factoring this at the end. 
Mr P says Azzurro have lied to him in their final response letter
Mr P says Azzurro have lied when they said he first contacted M in January 2019. He asks 
who defaults an account after one missed payment (as his account was only one month 
behind at this time).
Ive looked at this, and in context I think this is a typo  and Azzurro meant January 2020.
I should though explain complaint handling matters, such as the content of a final response 
letter, isnt something our service can generally get involved in. Thats because complaints 
about complaint handling arent regulated. So, I provide the above information to try and be 
helpful but cant address all the remaining issues Mr P has flagged, purely because Ive no 
ability to consider everything in detail.
Azzurro delayed contacting him and not addressed all of the issues hes raised
Mr P was told by our service he needed to raise a new complaint about some of the points 
he wanted to raise. Having raised these to Azzurro, they said all the issues had been dealt 
with  so they didnt need to issue a new response.
Ultimately, Ive made the decision to amalgamate the cases to ensure all the key issues 
Mr P has raised are addressed  but I do agree with him some of the points hes raised 
simply werent addressed by Azzurro.
I consider this has led to distress for Mr P, as hes had to raise these issues to Azzurro on 
several occasions. So, again, Ill be upholding this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
As a reminder then, Im upholding:
Incorrectly addressed letter with incorrect information in itAzzurro told Mr P he needed to contact M, when M werent managing the account
Delayed dealing with all of his issues
Our Investigator awarded £150 compensation and having considered everything, I think this 
remains a fair figure. I do think Mr P has had to chase Azzurro to get all of his issues 
responded to, and at times I dont think Azzurro have properly realised that. Theyve also 
made mistakes by sending him a poorly written NoA with two errors and telling him to 
contact M when they werent managing the account at that time. 
Im aware Azzurro previously reduced Mr Ps outstanding debt by this amount, but I dont 
think thats fair. This is compensation for errors made by Azzurro, so the money should be 
paid directly to Mr P. 
Overall then, Im awarding £150 compensation, but think the debt remains due. Ive seen in 
correspondence with our service Mr P has said hes prepared to arrange a payment plan 
with Azzurro to repay the debt, so Id encourage him to do so once this complaint has been 
finalised. Given some of the challenges Mr P has outlined, Ill require Azzurro to set out 
clearly what he needs to do in order to get a payment plan in place. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P provided a number of responses across multiple emails. Ive addressed what I consider 
to be the most important elements below.
Azzurro said they were concerned they should pay the £150 to Mr P directly and quoted 
some information from our website about compensation on PPI complaints. They also said 
the update of the start date might take around 60 days  this was 23 June 2023, so it could 
have taken up to 22 August 2023  meaning they did do the update in the timeframe they 
said they would. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Start date of the loan
I said in my provisional decision Azzurro had told our service theyd updated the start date of 
the loan. 
Mr P checked his credit file up to 16 August 2023 and said it hadnt been updated yet, so he 
was concerned by this. He also said information has to be correct, so Azzurro saying theyd 
amend this as a gesture of goodwill was shocking.
Dealing with that issue first, my read of Azzurros point is that theyd not been given clear 
evidence of when the start date was  which is why they were amending it as a gesture of 
goodwill. Ultimately, whats important in my view is that they agreed to amend it.
What they told our service was theyd amend the date and it may take up to 60 days to 
show. So, Im satisfied Azzurro did agree to amend the date, and it took the time they said it 
would for this to happen. 
To ensure there are no further issues though, Ill make this part of my direction. So, Azzurro 
will be required to update the start date to 6 December 2018 if they havent already.
Default date had a massive impactMr P has said the date of the default being wrong has had a massive impact on him.
Hes not fully explained why, but most people would say this due to being denied credit. Mr P 
hasnt said this, but even if he explained this might be a reason hed been turned down for 
credit, my view would be a default in itself would likely cause some lenders to not grant him 
credit  regardless of when the default was reported. Over time a default might have less 
importance in a lending decision for some lenders but given Mr P hasnt made any payments 
to the debt, that itself would likely also be a factor.
No payments being made to the account for two years
Mr P has said its not his responsibility to get in touch with Azzurro or M in an effort to make 
payments  especially as he was waiting for M to get in touch and hed told them he was in 
financial difficulties.
I think though its likely the contractual terms of the account do require Mr P to make every 
effort to make the payments required. Mr Ps responsibility to repay the debt doesnt go 
away, just because the debt has been bought by Azzurro. 
That said, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I do think Mr P has had some 
difficulties when hes attempted to make payments. Thats why, for the good of all parties, 
Ive said Azzurro need to clearly set out how payments need to be made in future. And while 
Mr P may have had some financial difficulties in the past, hes also complained that hes 
been denied the opportunity to make payments. To date, hes not made any as I understand 
it, so I dont think Azzurro need to do anything here.
If though Mr P is currently in financial difficulties, then Id remind Azzurro of their 
responsibility to treat Mr P fairly and sympathetically. Mr P should know this may mean 
Azzurro want to do an income and expenditure assessment to determine what he can pay 
towards the outstanding debt. 
NoA being sent in an incorrect name
Mr P says the NoA is a very important letter which was addressed incorrectly so he feels 
hes never been given this document. So, because hes never been given this document, he 
says hes disputing whether he even owes the balance legally anymore.
I cant answer whether Mr P would legally owe the balance  if he wants a court judgment, 
hell need to take the matter to court. My remit is to consider things on a fair and reasonable 
basis. 
On a fair and reasonable basis, Mr P has previously accepted the loan with 1, which Azzurro 
purchased, was his. So, Im satisfied its reasonable for Azzurro to ask him to repay it.
The NoA was addressed to Mr P. It had his name, and address, in the address block. It 
included the correct account number, and the correct outstanding balance. The incorrect 
information was the salutation was to someone else, and it said the loan started the incorrect 
month.
Despite the errors Im satisfied this is a reasonable document to confirm Azzurro now own 
Mr Ps debt. Mr P has said he wont pay anything towards the debt until he gets what he 
calls a proper NoA. Im satisfied the NoA hes been sent is sufficient. If Azzurro wanted to 
send him a new one with all correct details then they could, but it isnt necessary for me to 
require them to do so.
Azzurro telling E that Mr P needed to contact MMr P says all Azzurro needed to tell E was the data was correct, they didnt need to say get 
in touch with M and its this that was embarrassing.
But, as Ive said before, E hold millions of records about peoples financial circumstances. 
So, I dont think Azzurro telling E that Mr P needed to get in touch with M was incorrect or 
inappropriate.
Thoughts on the £150 compensation
Mr P has said Azzurro havent acted fairly since our Investigator awarded £150 
compensation so he should be paid interest on this amount since it was awarded. He also 
asks if Im awarding an additional £150, so £300 total, or is it just £150. Mr P says this simply 
isnt enough because of the massive impact of the default and because Azzurro took it off 
the debt.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments carefully, but I remain of the opinion £150 in total is fair for 
the issues Ive upheld as part of this complaint and for the reasons Ive already mentioned 
before. I also dont think its appropriate for interest to be added as it was Mr P who asked 
for an Ombudsman to decide the case  which caused further time to pass before the matter 
could be resolved. 
Finally, addressing Azzurros concerns I remain of the opinion its appropriate for the £150 
compensation to be paid to Mr P directly. 
Azzurro have quoted the following from our website:
The regulators guidance to businesses handling PPI complaints says that where the 
consumers loan or credit card is in arrears, the business may use the compensation to 
reduce the consumers loan or credit card balance if it has the contractual right to do so.
And Azzurro say given Mr P has never made a payment to the loan, theyve asked why they 
cant exercise their right to reduce the loan balance.
Without reviewing all of the information, I suspect this refers to the financial loss 
compensation  in PPI if a complaint was upheld then usually it was a refund of interest and 
charges. Those interest and charges wouldnt have been paid for by the consumer if they 
were in arrears  so it was right they were refunded directly to the outstanding balance.
 
Here though, I believe there have been some customer service failings  and in that 
scenario we require that money to be paid directly to the consumer, rather than taken off any 
outstanding balance. Ive seen no reason to change that approach here. This will likely mean 
Azzurro adjust Mr Ps outstanding balance and remove the £150 credit they previously 
applied. If they do so, then thats fine.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Azzurro Associates Limited to:
Pay Mr P £150 directly. 
Clearly set out to Mr P how he can move forward with repaying this debt
Update the start date of the loan to 6 December 2018 if they havent alreadyUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman