DRN-4152563
The complaint
Mr O complains about the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) offered to 
settle his home insurance (buildings) claim. 
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr O made an escape of water claim under his home insurance policy with 
RSA. A leak from Mr Os shower had caused damage to a bedroom and playroom.
RSA arranged for Mr Os property to be visited by a surveyor, who completed a report and 
scope of works. Mr O was told that repairs needed to be completed before it could settle his 
buildings claim.
In late February, Mr O told RSA that his leaking shower had been fixed. RSA offered Mr O a 
cash settlement based on what it would have cost it to complete the work. Mr O said he 
would obtain an estimate for the work, and RSA sent him a copy of the scope of works. Mr O 
provided a quote from a contractor, but RSA said this wasnt sufficiently detailed. Mr O 
provided some further estimates, but RSA didnt agree to the costs. 
Mr O instructed his own contractor to begin work in June 2022 and told RSA he expected it 
to pay their invoice. RSA didnt agree to this, so a complaint was raised.
In response to Mr Os complaint, RSA said discrepancies were identified when reviewing the 
estimates Mr O had sent. It said it had attempted to contact Mr Os chosen contractor to 
discuss the quotes further but was unsuccessful. It said Mr Os decision to have repairs 
undertaken by private tradesmen had prejudiced his position to progress his claim any 
further.
RSA said its claim settlement offer was still available to Mr O. It said if Mr O still disagreed 
with its settlement offer, he should send in a new quote, using the itemised scope of works 
from another contractor for further review. 
Mr O remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider the matter. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Os complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy set out how RSA will settle buildings claims. They say:
We will pay for the cost of the work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts 
of your buildings and agreed fees and related costs.
They go on to say:
The amount we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
The cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor or
The cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from your 
nominated contractors.
According to the terms, RSA is entitled to base its cash settlement on the amount it would 
have cost it if its nominated contractors had carried out the repairs. However, this might 
differ to the amount it would cost a consumer to get the work down themselves. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for RSA to rely only on its own estimate of costs, if it was its choice to 
settle the claim by cash. This might not sufficiently indemnify Mr O for his loss.
RSA said it initially offered a cash settlement, because of the lead time on contractors for the 
type of claim. It says if its able to validate its customers costs, it can offer a quicker 
progression on the claim. Whilst RSAs initial settlement offer was based on its own costs, it 
did agree to consider estimates from Mr O. So, I think RSA showed a willingness to increase 
the settlement if Mr O was able to demonstrate that the cost of getting the work carried out 
himself would be higher. 
RSA says it wasnt able to validate the estimates Mr O provided. The initial estimate (dated 
March 2022) only says Labour and Material with a total amount (with and without VAT). 
RSA has noted telling Mr O that it required line items/priced, after receiving this.
The second estimate (dated April 2022) has the same information as the first with the entire 
scope of works copied and pasted into it. It doesnt show a breakdown of costs.
The third estimate (dated May 2022) briefly notes the work involved and gives a total 
estimate. There isnt a detailed breakdown of costs, in line with the scope of works.
RSA says it wasnt able to contact the contractor to discuss the estimate with them as there 
were no contact details. RSA was also concerned that the estimates werent on headed 
paper and the estimate amount had gone up on the third document.
 
I appreciate Mr O is unhappy that RSA didnt accept the estimates he provided as being 
evidence of the cost of repairs covered by the claim. I also acknowledge what hes said 
about the cost of labour and materials increasing because of inflation. However, I dont think 
RSA has acted unreasonably here. There was no itemised breakdown in any of the 
estimates to allow it to compare them to the scope of works. RSA was only required to pay 
for repairs to damage resulting from the incident he was claiming for. So, I think it was 
reasonable for it to have wanted to see exactly what the estimates covered.
Mr O has commented that the contractor is well-established and doesnt rely on headed 
paper or online presence for continuous work. However, as there were no contact details on 
the estimates RSA wasnt able to verify the information or negotiate the amounts with the 
contractors. 
RSA says it would have appointed its own contractors to complete the work, but it wasnt 
able to do so as Mr Os chosen contractors had already begun repairs.
Mr O says the surveyor agreed that the initial quotations he received were reflective of the 
quantum of works. RSAs notes are quite brief, so its difficult to determine exactly what the surveyor might have told Mr O. However, the notes suggest that the surveyor had concerns 
with the original estimate and he asked Mr O for a detailed breakdown. Mr Os email 
attaching the second estimate refers to his conversation with the surveyor. Mr O was also 
told the second estimate wasnt sufficient. So, I dont think Mr O was led to believe that the 
estimate had been agreed to, prior to going ahead with the work.
I appreciate Mr O was frustrated with the time it was taking to agree a settlement. And I think 
RSAs communication with Mr O could have been better on occasion. However, I dont think 
Mr O provided RSA with adequate information to allow it to approve the costs he was asking 
for. This contributed to a delay in the matter being resolved.
RSA made the initial decision to offer a cash settlement, so I would expect this to be enough 
to put Mr O back in the position he was in before the loss or damage. However, I dont think 
it would be fair to tell RSA to pay Mr Os contractors invoice when it hadnt agreed to the 
costs. In its response to Mr Os complaint, RSA indicated it would be willing to review its 
settlement offer if Mr O provided further information for its consideration. I think this was 
reasonable. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr O has provided the information RSA 
asked for. So, I dont intend to tell it to do anything further.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
RSA said it agreed with my provisional decision and had no further information to add.
Mr O made several comments in response to my provisional decision. He said the evidence 
suggested that RSAs actions and requirements were not in line with the terms of the policy, 
and it had rejected the estimates without proper justification. Mr O said he believed it would 
be appropriate to uphold his complaint and require RSA to reconsider its settlement offer 
based on a fair assessment of the actual repair costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says RSA hasnt acted in line with the terms of the policy. He says the policy states 
that RSA will pay for the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged part of the buildings, 
based on the most competitive estimate from the insureds nominated contractors. 
The policy actually says RSA will pay the lesser of the cost of the work if it had been 
carried out by RSAs nominated contractor or the cost of the work based upon the most 
competitive estimate of the insureds contractors. So, strictly speaking, the policy terms allow 
RSA to pay what it would have cost it to get the work carried out by its nominated 
contractors. 
Mr O says RSA rejected the estimates hed provided without adequately explaining the 
reasons. However, Im satisfied that RSA explained why the estimates he provided werent 
sufficient. 
I appreciate Mr O feels RSA should have made a greater effort to verify the information 
provided, despite there being no contact details for the contractor on the estimate. However, 
Im not persuaded that RSA was required to do this, when it had informed Mr O that the 
documents hed provided werent sufficient.Mr O says he chose to have the repairs done by his own contractor because of delays 
caused by RSAs lack of responsiveness and refusal to approve the estimates. He says 
RSAs argument that he prejudiced his position to progress the claim further is unjustifiable 
as it was the insurers own actions that led to the situation. 
I acknowledge that RSAs communication could have been better at times. However, Ive 
explained why I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to have rejected the estimates Mr O 
provided. And Im not persuaded that RSA was solely responsible for a delay in resolving the 
matter. 
I dont agree that it was unreasonable for RSA to have insisted on a more detailed 
breakdown of costs. RSA was only required to cover the costs of work covered by the claim. 
It was also entitled to assess whether the costs on there were reasonable before agreeing to 
cover the costs of Mr O using his chosen contractor. 
Mr O says RSAs cash settlement offer fails to recognise that it might not adequately cover 
the cost of repairs. He says RSA should be willing to reconsider its settlement offer if he can 
demonstrate the cost of the work done by his chosen contractor would be higher.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair for RSA to rely only on its 
own estimate of costs in its cash settlement offer. I think it would be fair for RSAs cash 
settlement offer to reflect fair and reasonable costs of Mr O getting the work done. Fair and 
reasonable costs being a settlement based on market rates for the work to be done, as 
opposed to any discounted rate RSA may have received using its nominated contractors. 
However, this wouldnt necessarily be the same as the amount Mr O paid his chosen 
contractor. 
In its response to Mr Os complaint, RSA said it would be willing to consider a quote from a 
different contractor using its itemised scope of works. I think this was reasonable as it gave 
Mr O the opportunity to show what fair and reasonable costs (i.e. the market rate) of getting 
the work done might have been.  
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr O, but his comments havent made a 
difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman