DRN-2181319
The complaint
Mr W complains that Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd (Acorn) failed to fulfil his 
instruction and change the insured vehicle on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W changed cars in May 2020 and he said he contacted Acorn around the 18 May to 
confirm the details of his new car which needed to be insured. He said he requested this 
change using an online webchat service with Acorn.
The insurance wasnt changed over and Mr W was stopped by the police for driving without 
insurance in early June 2020. He believes it isnt fair that he has to pay the costs associated 
with this  including his vehicle release fee as Acorn made a mistake and failed to change 
the insurance over as he instructed.
Mr W has provided an email which he says demonstrates his instructions were received by 
Acorn and that it was reasonable for him to believe the cover was in place. 
Acorn has said it has no record of any communication with Mr W about changing the vehicle 
on his policy. It had conversations over his payment but not about changing the car and the 
response he has provided is a generic response sent in reply to this query. It has also said it 
is unable to complete a change of vehicle using the online chat service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said that she didnt think there was anything to 
suggest that Acorn had made a mistake. She could see there had been email 
correspondence with Acorn in May but that the subject of these emails was about the cost of 
the policy and a late payment administration fee which Mr W had been charged. There was 
no reference to a change of vehicle.
Because Mr W doesnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
Mr W feels the email he received on 18 May 2020 was proof hed requested changing the 
vehicle he had insured with Acorn. And that hes acted reasonably relying on this. 
I agree that the email and its contents could give reassurance that a change of vehicle 
request was being actioned and all required changes would be made if this request had 
been sent. And the email also gives reassurance that if the question asked is about 
payments, a response will be issued as soon as possible and a number of links are provided 
to assist with making a payment online if this is needed. So the email gives two clear 
outcomes, both relating to two different questions and the correct answer for each customer 
will depend on the question asked.
Mr W has said he is adamant the question he asked was a change of vehicle request. Acorn 
has disagreed and said there is no reference of this request. 
Im afraid from looking at everything that has been provided, Im not persuaded that Mr W 
had sent a request to Acorn to change his vehicle when he thought he had. Acorn has 
demonstrated that it has carried out a thorough search of its system to make sure that there 
is no correspondence sent by Mr W which could have been missed. This has only resulted in 
two emails sent by Mr W on 5 and 17 May 2020 being found. Both of these reference an 
issue with a late payment and Mr W challenging a £25.00 administration fee hes been 
charged as a result of this.  
Acorn has also said that a change of vehicle cannot be completed by a webchat and the 
change of vehicle authorisation form needs to be completed. Mr W completed this on 9 June 
2020 after hed been stopped by the police for driving without insurance. There is no record 
of this being completed prior to this date. Acorn can only be expected to act on an instruction 
if it has been given to them. As there is nothing to suggest this instruction was given to 
Acorn and based on the searches it has carried out to demonstrate no correspondence was 
missed, Im satisfied it has done nothing wrong.
I understand the frustration Mr W has with this issue as he believes he did ask for this to 
happen, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this is the case. So I wont be directing Acorn 
to do anything else with this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman