DRN-3648444
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how PCF Bank Limited dealt with his request for assistance as a result 
of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 31 May 2017, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with PCF. He paid a deposit of £5,000 and the agreement was for £9,999 over 48 months; 
with monthly repayments of £278.25.
In March 2020, Mr S contacted PCF to let them know his income had been affected by 
Covid-19. And he arranged a three-month payment deferral. PCF sent him the terms of the 
agreement on 8 April 2020 and confirmed that no payments would be due for May, June, or 
July 2020. Mr Ss payment remained unchanged at the end of the deferral period, and his 
term was extended until January 2022.
In August 2020 Mr S complained to PCF that his term had been extended to 2022, and not 
for just three months, which was what hed expected. PCF explained that interest was still 
being charged throughout the deferral period, and on the outstanding balance. And the 
additional interest meant the loan would take longer to repay. So, they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong.
Mr S wasnt happy with PCFs response, and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance about 
customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. And this allowed 
PCF to continue to charge interest throughout the deferral period. And the daily interest 
charged on the outstanding balance meant that it would take longer to repay the deferred 
payments than the three months Mr S said he was expecting.
However, the investigator thought this couldve been clearly explained to Mr S, and that he 
couldve increased his monthly payments so as to repay the deferred payments over a 
shorter period and pay less interest overall. The investigator also said that PCF shouldve 
considered Mr Ss circumstances, and whether a payment increase and keeping the original 
term unaltered was more suitable for him.
Because of this, she didnt think Mr S had been treated fairly. And she said that PCF should 
pay him £225 compensation for their failure to provide him with sufficient information to 
make an informed decision.
While Mr S agreed that hed been treated unfairly, he didnt agree with the compensation the 
investigator had recommended. And he thought this should be at least £500. PCF explained 
why they thought theyd acted fairly, but they couldnt provide any evidence of any specific 
conversation theyd had with Mr S about how a payment deferral would affect his term.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint, but with a different remedy. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
In their comments on the investigators view, PCF explained that their process for agreeing 
payment deferrals required them to ask the customer if they wanted to increase the 
payments and keep the term the same; or keep the payments the same and increase the 
term. While they cant provide any evidence of the specific conversations they had with Mr S, 
theyve pointed out that Mr S was expecting his payments to remain unchanged and the 
term increased, which is what happened. So, they believe this indicates that conversations 
with Mr S mustve taken place.
However, in an email dated 10 October 2021, PCF have said that they didnt offer an 
increase in payments, with an unaltered term, to Mr S. In doing this, Im satisfied that PCF 
failed to follow their own process and, as such, treated Mr S unfairly.
In April 2020, the FCA issued guidance on how motor finance providers should treat 
customers who were having temporary financial difficulties due to Covid-19. This guidance 
allowed for payment deferrals to be put into place. However, it also explained that firms are 
not prevented from continuing to charge interest under regulated credit agreements during a 
deferral period. So, PCF didnt act unreasonably by doing this.
PCF wrote to Mr S on 8 April 2020, setting out the terms of the payment deferral. This letter 
explained that Mr S wasnt expected to make any payments from May to July 2020 and 
would resume his normal monthly payment in August 2020. He would then pay his normal 
payments until December 2021, at which point a final payment of £34.52 would be required. 
Mr S signed to accept these terms on 11 April 2020.
While this letter doesnt explain that interest will continue to be charged throughout the term 
of the payment deferral, its very clear that Mr S would need to continue to maintain his 
normal payments until December 2021, after which a final payment of just under £35 would 
be required. And the total of the additional payments Mr S was being asked to pay was more 
than just the value of the three payments deferred. So, the terms show there was something 
else being repaid in addition to the deferred payments  the additional interest.
As the agreement Mr S originally signed had the final payment due in June 2021, PCF had 
also clearly set out that the term would be extended by seven months (although by just over 
six full monthly payments) as a result of the payment deferral. And not by the three months 
Mr S said he believed it to be.
Mr S didnt have to accept the terms offered. And he couldve asked PCF to either limit the 
term extension to the three months he wanted, or not to alter the term at all. However, he 
chose not to do this. And its worth noting that either of these options wouldve meant a 
payment increase because of the additional interest Mr S was being charged.
While I appreciate that, in hindsight, Mr S no longer agrees with the terms offered by PCF, 
specifically that the term was extended for more than three months, this doesnt alter the fact 
that he accepted those terms after having them clearly explained to him in writing. So, I dont 
think this means PCF did anything wrong by amending the agreement in line with what Mr S 
agreed to. And, whats more, this didnt stop Mr S asking PCF, after the payment deferral 
period ended, if he could increase his payments and reduce the term extension.PCF have also pointed to Mr Ss payment history from July 2017 (when the first payment 
was due) to April 2020. And that, during this period, Mr S had multiple direct debits fail, as 
well as charges and penalty interest applied to his account. Ive also seen that the payment 
for February 2020 was also outstanding when the payment deferral was applied for. 
These things by themselves wouldve resulted in the finance not being fully repaid by the 
original June 2021 date, even if no payments had subsequently been deferred. And PCF 
reasonably thought the historic payment issues and arrears was an indicator that an 
increased payment wasnt in Mr Ss best interests.
Ive also noted that, at no point during the complaints process has Mr S indicated that, had it 
been explained to him about how the interest was calculated, he wouldve kept the term 
unaltered and paid a higher payment. Or asked for a smaller term increase i.e. three months 
and had a smaller increase in his payments. 
Given these facts, Im satisfied its more likely than not that, had Mr S been offered the 
option of keeping the term the same at the end of the deferral period, and increasing his 
payments as a result, he wouldnt have taken this option. And, by not doing so and keeping 
his payments the same, Mr S wouldve been in the same situation as he now finds himself. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr S hasnt been financially impacted by PCF not clearly explaining his 
options, or that interest would continue to be charged. Because of this, Im satisfied that PCF 
dont need to take further action. And I wont be asking them to pay Mr S any compensation.
Responses
Neither Mr S nor PCF provided any comments on the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive had no comments on my provisional decision, and because neither party have 
provided any additional evidence, my view remains unaltered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint about PCF Bank Limited, but 
they dont need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman