The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to provide him with the correct 
information regarding his monthly fees relating to his personal pension and consequently he 
had to change to an alternative pension provider
What happened
Following instruction by Mr H to increase his monthly payments, in early 2019, Scottish 
Widows confirmed in writing what his new monthly payments would be (around £4000) and 
that this would start in a couple of weeks. Two weeks later, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr H 
again but this time, incorrectly stated his monthly payments would be nearly £900 less than 
the correct figure. In this letter, they also set out the percentage by which his charges would 
be calculated, of which the payments were monthly. 
Seeking clarification of the fees and the monthly payment figure, Mr H called the contact 
centre. Mr H was told hed be sent an explanation of the fees in writing  although he didnt 
feel the call was useful. Scottish Widows have admitted that Mr H was given incorrect 
information over the phone. Mr H then, on the same day, followed up with an email to 
Scottish Widows. In his email he sought clarification regarding:
The 1.589% in monthly fees Scottish Widows said they were going to take. He
explained he didnt think this was acceptable and wanted to know what they meant;
Scottish Widows' annual fee. He explained that the contact centre initially said there
was a 0.7% annual fee but later changed this to zero; and
The actual amount to be paid monthly. Their letter incorrectly stated a figure £900
less than it should be.
Mr H asked that Scottish Widows get back to him after investigating the points hed raised.
Mr H didnt receive a response and about a week later, Mr H sought an alternative pension 
provider as he was concerned about the charges stated in the letter he had received from 
Scottish Widows.
In March, one month after Mr H had sent his initial email seeking clarification regarding 
Scottish Widows fees, Mr H complained to Scottish Widows. He explained that he was 
going to transfer his pension to another provider, as he still hadn't received the letter 
explaining the fees the contact centre had said they'd send to him.
Two days later, Scottish Widows sent the relevant transfer form and value information to 
Mr Hs secure online Scottish Widows account. And a further two days later, 
Scottish Widows issued their final response to Mr Hs complaint. They upheld Mr Hs 
DRN-1724163complaint and clarified the charges as set out in the letter of 6 February were percentages 
per year not per month. They also set out how their Annual Management Charge (AMC) is 
calculated. By way of an apology, they sent Mr H a cheque for £75.
Around six weeks later, Mr H wrote to Scottish Widows and explained that he wasnt happy 
with the £75 offered. He stated that he felt forced to change pension providers as he hadnt 
had a response from Scottish Widows. He also provided a breakdown of the cost incurred to 
him due to him changing providers and stated that he would like to be reimbursed for the 
costs incurred, in addition to being compensated for the poor customer service he had 
received. 
After reviewing this request, Scottish Widows explained to Mr H that, whilst they were sorry 
he felt he was forced to seek an alternative provider; the option to transfer a pension fund 
out of Scottish Widows is always available to their customers. They also maintained the £75 
payment in recognition for the poor service hed received was an appropriate sum.
Seeking a payment of over £1000 (£500 to be compensated for the poor customer service 
hed received; and over £500 for the cost of setting up, keeping and cancelling his new 
pension policy) Mr H brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators agreed Scottish Widows had provided poor customer service but 
did not think they should have to reimburse Mr H for the costs he incurred in securing a new 
pension provider. They explained that Mr H opened his new account a week after he raised 
his original enquiries with Scottish Widows and explained that that wasnt a reasonable 
amount of time to have allowed Scottish Widows to provide the clarification he had 
requested. That said, they did not think £75 was a fair offer of compensation and asked 
Scottish Widows to pay a further £75 on top of the £75 they had already paid.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr H maintains he should be reimbursed for all of the costs he 
has incurred. This has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
In response to the investigators view, Scottish Widows has told us that they have paid a 
further £50 to Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows has already stated they have provided poor customer service to Mr H, so I 
need not consider whether the service he received was good or not. My consideration is 
firstly therefore, whether Mr H should be reimbursed for the costs he incurred due to 
transferring his pension to an alternative provider. And secondly, I will consider the payment 
he was given for the poor service he received.
I can see that Mr H first raised the issue regarding the AMC and other matters in early 
February, and then sought a new pension provider approximately a week later. I would 
agree with the investigator that this isnt a reasonable amount of time to have allowed 
Scottish Widows to look into his queries. 
Mr H opened a new pension plan within a week of having received the incorrect information. 
And I can understand that he wanted to act quickly as (based on the incorrect charges) 
staying with Scottish Widows would have cost him a lot of money. However, he didnt give 
Scottish Widows a reasonable amount of time before taking this course of action. I am 
therefore unable to agree that they should have to pay the cost Mr H incurred when transferring to the alternative pension provider, or the running costs of the new pension plan 
to date.
Further, if Mr H is still with the subsequent pension provider, a year has now passed and so 
he wouldnt have to pay the £300 exit fee if he chose to leave and return to Scottish Widows.
Putting things right
With relation to the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H by the poor service he has 
received, I agree with the investigator that £150 would be a fair and reasonable amount for 
Scottish Widows to pay, in acknowledgement of this. He was given incorrect information 
over the phone and follow up correspondence was promised but not issued. Not having 
important information about his pension would have been frustrating and worrying. It 
shouldnt take the raising of a formal complaint in order to receive fairly basic information, 
such as what the AMC is and confirmation as to the monthly payments to be made.
My final decision
For the reasons I have provided, I have decided to uphold this complaint. My decision is that 
Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr H a total of £150. I am aware that Scottish Widows 
Limited has already paid Mr H £125, so they should pay him an additional £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman