DRN-3932928
The complaint
Mr H complains about the APR on his loan with MBNA Limited.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H applied online for a loan from MBNA. The application was approved and 
the loan was opened with an APR of 17.4%.
Mr H complained about the APR. He said hed been attracted by a headline low rate of 
interest and took out the loan to buy a car. Mr H was unhappy that the interest rate 
applicable to the loan was higher than expected.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, MBNA said it wasnt able to change the APR or change the 
loan to a money transfer.
Mr H was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the advertised rates werent 
guaranteed and that Mr H had accepted the agreement which stated the rate of 17.9% with 
repayments of £200.44 per month.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed never signed the loan agreement or received a copy of it. Mr 
H also questioned why hed been given a high rate of interest when hed been longstanding 
customer of MBNA. He said he was encouraged to take the loan when he spoke to someone 
during the application process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at MBNAs website. This sets out the various loans available and gives an 
illustrative APR. Theres a statement on the website which makes it clear that the decision to 
lend and the interest rate offered will depend on the applicants personal situation.
Mr H has said that he was attracted by the low rates of interest advertised online. He also 
says he was pressured into taking the loan when he called MBNA during the application 
process.
The illustrative APR of the loan which Mr H applied for was 4.5%. However, Mr Hs loan 
agreement stated that the rate was 17.9%. Whilst I agree that the illustrative rate wouldve 
attracted Mr H, the website makes it clear that the rate was illustrative only. In other words, 
there was no guarantee that Mr H would get that rate. The loan agreement clearly states that 
the rate applicable to Mr Hs loan is 17.9%. Mr H accepted the terms of the loan and didnt 
take any steps to cancel the agreement during the cooling off period.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr H was made aware of the key features of the 
loan, including the APR, before he chose to accept it.
At the request of this service, MBNA has searched for call recordings around the time Mr H 
applied for the loan. No records have been found. There are no system notes to indicate that 
any calls took place. Because of this, Im not able to look into whether Mr H was pressured 
into taking the loan. Theres no evidence to suggest that any conversation took place 
between Mr H and MBNA at the time of the loan application.
Mr H accepted the loan online on 26 April 2022. Ive already said that Im satisfied that the 
key features of the loan were clearly set out, and that Mr H had all the information he needed 
to make an informed decision.
Mr H has said that he never signed or received the loan agreement. The agreement was 
electronically accepted by Mr H, which is deemed to be an electronic signature. MBNA says 
that its records show that the loan agreement was sent to Mr H on 26 April 2022. Based on 
what Ive seen, the agreement was correctly addressed to Mr H, I cant see that MBNA made 
any errors here. So, if Mr H didnt receive the agreement, it seems more likely that this was 
due toa  failure by the postal service which isnt something Im able to hold MBNSA 
responsible for.
I appreciate that Mr H feels strongly about this. However, taking everything into account, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that MBNA misrepresented the loan to Mr H or treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman