DRN-3610201
The complaint
Mr B complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) handling of his
claim following an escape of water, under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to LV includes its contractors and agents.
What happened
There was an escape of water from an underfloor pipe, which caused damage to Mr Bs
property in October 2020. He claimed to LV. It appointed a loss adjustor to investigate the
claim, which was accepted. A contractor was then appointed to carry out the repairs. Mr B
and his family required alternative accommodation during the repairs, and this was covered
under the policy.
Mr B says the accommodation he arranged had to be cancelled a week before work started.
He says it became apparent at a late stage that the repairs wouldnt be completed in the
time stated due to poor planning and mismanagement. This meant finding another property
with a longer lease at short notice. He says this accommodation was substandard, not of an
equivalent size to his property and was situated 13 miles away. This had an impact on
vulnerable members of his family.
Mr B says due to negligence on LVs contractors part, significant effort was required from
him to project manage the repairs. Had he not taken on this role he says the delays that
occurred wouldve been longer. He says the original estimate was for completion within six
weeks and four days. But it took 14 weeks with an additional time to resolve snagging issues
of eight weeks.
Mr B says the alternative accommodation cost £750 per week but rental for an equivalent to
his property would be in excess of £2,000. He thinks LV should pay the difference for the
eight-week delay caused by its contractor. This amounts to £10,000. In addition to £1,500
compensation for his time, and the distress and inconvenience caused.
LV says it proved difficult to find suitable accommodation, so Mr B proceeded to find his
own. It says additional work was identified, which meant the original timeframe for
completion of works wouldnt be met. Mr Bs alternative accommodation was on a three-
month lease, which wasnt long enough so he arranged another property with a four-month
lease. LV says the repair work was completed within this timeframe.
LV says alternative accommodation is dependent on what is available at the time. It refers to
the impact of the pandemic and says the accommodation Mr B found was some distance
away due to the limited availability of suitable rental properties. It doesnt think its
responsible for the lack of availability on the rental market, or for the suitability of the
property Mr B found. It didnt agree to paying Mr B £10,000 as per his request.
LV points to drying works that were identified once the property had been stripped out
causing a delay. There was limited availability of specialists able to deal with Mr Bs AGA,
which also caused a delay. It says it was also identified that a full new kitchen was required,
which again caused a delay. It says these issues were only apparent once work had begun
and that snagging issues are unavoidable and were resolved.
LV says communication couldve been better from its contractor and with its claim handler. It
apologised and offered £250 compensation to Mr B for this. Following discussion with Mr B
LV increased this offer to £750. Mr B didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to
our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He didnt think LVs offer of compensation
fully acknowledged the impact on Mr B and his family. Particularly that his wife was the main
carer for his mother in law who was in ill health.
Our investigator didnt think LV did enough to help find suitable accommodation. He
acknowledged it was stressful for Mr B to find accommodation particularly at short notice
when it became known the first lease wasnt long enough. He acknowledged additional
travel costs due to the location of the alternative accommodation, and that communication
couldve been better which may have contributed to some delays. He thought a payment for
£1,250 in total was fair plus consideration of a disruption allowance.
Mr B disagreed. He says LV should pay £10,000 for the unsuitable alternative
accommodation, £1,250 as suggested by our investigator and £2,080 as a disturbance
allowance. Our investigator didnt change his view, so Mr B asked for an ombudsman to
consider his complaint.
LV responded to say it didnt think it should pay more than £750 in compensation. Because
an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Bs complaint should 
be upheld. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint, but Im not awarding compensation at the level he has
suggested. I understand this will be a disappointment, but I will explain why I think my
decision is fair.
Alternative Accommodation
I have read the policy terms to understand what is expected to happen with respect to
alternative accommodation in these circumstances. The policy terms say:
If your home becomes uninhabitable following loss or damage covered under Buildings,
well pay up to £50,000 during the period of insurance for:
-the extra cost of similar alternative accommodation for you, your family and your
domestic pets; or
-loss of any unrecoverable rent;
- the reasonable storage costs for the duration of the repairs.
The repair works were planned to commence in March 2021. LV instructed its agent to
arrange alternative accommodation. The requirements were for a 2/3-bedroom house in the
locality of Mr Bs home. I can see from the emails supplied that a number of options were
identified in early December 2020. The notes indicate there were a limited number of
available properties and the search radius had been extended to some distance away in lightof this.
Mr B says the properties suggested were unsuitable and, in some cases, up to 30 miles
distant. As a result, he decided to find his own accommodation, which suited him and his
family better. I understand he arranged with the landlord directly to rent this property. This
was for the period from March 2021 to the beginning of June.
The alternative accommodation was cancelled near to the end of February 2021. Mr B says
this is because it became clear the work wouldnt be completed by mid-April 2021 as LVs
contractor had advised. The property wasnt available beyond June, which meant he had to
find an alternative with only nine days notice. Mr B says this accommodation wasnt similar
to his home as required by the policy. It was a two bedroom much smaller house. He says
his house has four bedrooms and seven additional reception rooms including a kitchen and
three bathrooms. He also says the accommodation was 13 miles from his home.
I have thought about the issues Mr B describes with the alternative accommodation, and the
impact this had on him and his family.
It must have been a difficult time for Mr B and his family given the extensive damage caused
to his home and the repairs that were needed. Im sorry to hear that he was frustrated with
the handling of the matter by LV.
From the records provided there were a limited number of properties of a suitable size and
distance away from Mr Bs home that could be rented for the period of the repairs. These
issues were experienced by both LVs agent and Mr B when trying to find suitable
accommodation. I think it was reasonable that LV agreed to the alternative accommodation
Mr B had found. But I also think the records show LVs agent made reasonable efforts to
identify accommodation in the local area.
Mr B says it was poor planning on LVs contractors part that meant the original completion
date couldnt be met. This only became apparent near to the works start date and meant he
had to search for another property at short notice. He highlights issues with his kitchen AGA
that demonstrate why the original date wouldnt be met.
Ive read through the records provided and note Mr B raised concerns with the time required
to remove and refit his kitchen AGA. This included consideration of the availability of
specialist contractors. He says a level floor is needed to complete this work. It wasnt known
how much drying time was needed before work could start, and it wasnt known when the
floor could be reinstated until the tiles were pulled up.
Mr B didnt want to be left, in limbo given the difficulty already experienced when finding
suitable accommodation. He didnt want to have to move to another property if works werent
completed in time. So, he found an alternative property with a longer lease until mid-June
2020, which solved these issues. He confirms this was agreed with LV.
I can understand Mr Bs concerns in finding another suitable property if works werent
completed in time. Particularly as he didnt want to have to move again if it could be avoided.
As it happened the repairs were completed (bar snagging issues) prior to mid-June 2021,
although after the original alternative accommodation lease will have ended. So, Mr B was
right to want an alternative to avoid having to move to different accommodation.
Mr B says he highlighted the need for specialist AGA contractors at an early juncture. I
acknowledge his view that this couldve been factored into LVs contractors planning more
effectively.I also acknowledge LVs view that a project of this size will almost certainly involve
unforeseen works and issues. It highlights examples of the drying work taking two weeks
and that more damage was found with the kitchen units than was initially thought.
I have considered the comments LV obtained from its loss adjustor relating to this point,
following Mr Bs complaint. The loss adjustor said:
Following site meetings and identifying additional areas of work and the likelihood of
potential drying, it was agreed three months would unlikely be satisfactory and the property
initially arranged by Mr [B] could not be extended. As such, Mr [B] sought a different property
for a four month period, incurring additional costs of £4,320.00. As we were mindful of his
personal circumstances, we did not want to risk overrunning the initial three months
accommodation and agreed the initial property would be cancelled and the further payment
made for the four month property instead. This turned out to be the correct decision and
work was completed within the four month period, with no additional costs incurred as a
result.
On balance I think LVs view is reasonable that some unforeseen issues will likely occur
during repair works such as this. I understand Mr B experienced hassle and stress when
looking for alternative accommodation. But it was his decision to do this. I dont dispute that
finding a property was difficult and there were limited options available within a reasonable
distance from Mr Bs home. But he chose to find this himself as opposed to using LVs
agents services. I have seen the list of properties and contact notes showing the work done
by the agent. Having considered this I dont think Mr B has shown that a property couldnt
have been sourced through LV rather than him taking on this responsibility.
I have also thought about Mr Bs comments that his property is much larger than the
alternative accommodation he was able to find.
The policy terms say LV will pay for, similar alternative accommodation. The terms dont
provide further clarification, but I think this should mean accommodation similar to the
insured property. Mr B says his property has four bedrooms, three bathrooms and is much
larger than the property he found to stay in.
I have looked at the properties LVs agent identified in December 2020. From the records
provided these were three-bedroom houses between seven and 19 miles away. Although
these were not the same size as Mr Bs home  it did match the criteria he had set out for
what he considered acceptable.
Both Mr B and LV say the available properties in the rental market for this area were limited.
Mr B chose to find accommodation himself and although I understand he felt this would be
better for him and his family, I dont think its fair to say LV behaved unreasonably when
researching the rental market and proposing properties, or when agreeing to pay for the
accommodation Mr B found.
That said the alternative accommodation Mr B found was 13 miles from his home. I
understand this resulted in additional inconvenience as Mr Bs wife needed to provide care
to her elderly mother. He says his mother-in-law was unable to stay in the alternative
accommodation because it was unsuitable due to her health conditions. He also says the
landlord at the alternative accommodation had to demolish and rebuild adjoining garages six
weeks before repairs were complete at his home. He says this made living there extremely
challenging.
We expect an insurer to behave reasonably and to work with its customer to find areasonable solution in circumstances such as these. In this case LV agreed to the property
Mr B had found when he didnt think those it had proposed were suitable. When it was
decided the works would take longer than anticipated, potentially over-running the lease
period, Mr B again found his own alternative accommodation, which LV agreed to. I cant
see that it was asked to find a suitable alternative only that it agreed to Mr Bs request to
change the accommodation. So, although Im sorry Mr B and his family were unhappy, I
dont think LV can reasonably be responsible for the suitability of this property as it wasnt
involved in finding it  only to agreeing to Mr Bs request.
Contractor Delays
Mr B says he spent a great deal of time, as a result of negligence on the part of LVs
contractor, project managing the repairs to his house. He says had he not done this the work
wouldve taken longer than the 14 weeks it did.
I have read the extensive correspondence exchanged between Mr B, LV, its contractor, and
loss adjustor. I note Mr B was actively involved in the arrangement of the works and
regularly in contact with all parties.
Mr B says LVs contractor didnt manage its sub-contractors effectively, communicated
poorly, and failed to provide adequate resources to ensure the advised timelines were met.
He says this meant the timelines it advised were largely inaccurate. I have considered the
evidence to understand what happened.
Mr B says the handling of the AGA work caused unnecessary delays. I have seen an email
he sent around December 2020 highlighting the need for an AGA specialist. In January 2021
LVs contractor mentioned having an AGA company booked in for the beginning of March,
when work was due to begin. Mr B asked for the name of the specialist and if they would
attend prior to March. He says the specialist visited his home, unannounced by LVs
contractor, in February. He emailed the loss adjustor after this visit to say the specialist
would need to install a new flue in line with health and safety requirements. Mr B was
concerned that quotes had yet to be provided for this work, and that LVs contractor wasnt
yet aware of the extra work this entailed. Mr B says the specialist couldnt start work for
weeks after its quote was accepted. He thought this was likely to delay the project.
Mr B emailed the loss adjustor the same day to say he had spoken with the AGA specialist
again. Concerns were raised that this work would be delayed by the need to dry and
reinstate a level floor in the kitchen. Mr B suggested work wouldnt be completed before his
alternative accommodation lease ended.
I can see that Mr B emailed the loss adjustor again the same day to say alternative
accommodation was limited and he had found just one alternative property. He says its
unlikely work will begin at the start of March 2021, as advised, because of the AGA issue. Mr
B says he understands contact was made with this specialist in December 2020, but further
discussion didnt take place. Mr B says work on the AGA flue was subcontracted to another
supplier, with further delays due to its availability.
In response, LV says the availability of AGA specialists was in short supply due to a
combination of the propertys location and Covid related issues. It also maintains that a
project of this size will inevitably involve some delays and complications.
Having considered this point, I dont think it was reasonably known what the AGA work
entailed prior to the specialist attending in February 2021. Mr B did highlight the need for the
specialist in December 2020. But I dont think its been shown that LV shouldve anticipated
significant issues with this aspect of the repairs, or that it has been shown it was possible toinvolve the specialist an earlier stage than it did, given the availability issues at that time.
Mr B mentions issues with the specialist being paid, and an invoice that was directed to him.
He says there were issues with the order of work being carried out and that LVs contractor
hadnt planned this correctly. I understand a different contractor was eventually appointed to
complete the flue work, as the original company couldnt commit to an earlier start date.
Mr B says that when visiting his property during the works, he found that trades expected to
be on site, werent always there. I can see from his emails that he raised this with the
business in April 2021, regarding several instances involving different trades.
Towards the end of April 2021 Mr B escalated his concerns and asked for a work plan and
for there to be no more slippages in the timeframe. He says he expected the time lost to be
regained. He says his mother in law needs an operation and to recover in his home. The
operation couldnt be planned in until the work is completed. He also says his father in laws
death had affected his wifes mental health and this added extra strain on his family, and
there was a need to complete the works quickly.
The repair works were completed by mid-June 2021. Allowing Mr B and his wife to return
home. I understand there was a further eight-week period where a snagging list of issues
were worked on. All items were completed in August.
LV originally advised a completion date for mid-April 2021. Mr B has supplied an email he
recently obtained from LVs loss adjustor to support his complaint. In his email he says a
two-week delay resulted from additional drying time, and a further delay from discovering
that all kitchen base units were damaged. He says this increased the completion time
beyond that originally expected. The loss adjustor says he understands its been accepted
by all parties that there were unacceptable communication delays from the contractor, and
that the project may have completed sooner had these not occurred.
Having considered all of this information in detail, I think its appropriate that LV provides Mr
B with compensation. I dont think £750 adequately acknowledges the issues described or
the impact they caused. I agree with the loss adjustors view that had communication been of
a better standard its possible the works couldve completed sooner. I think LVs comments
are fair that its reasonable to expect some issues to occur during a project of this size, and
this can impact on timeframes  such as the additional drying time. But I acknowledge Mr
Bs view that the kitchen units shouldnt have delayed matters as the strip out was completed
within a day and the kitchen units were available, from the time of ordering, within three
days.
According to the original timeframe the repairs were intended to be completed in around six
and a half weeks. Adding the additional drying time should have meant completion in just
over eight weeks. As it was, it took another eight weeks for the works to complete with a
further period to resolve the snagging items.
Mr B played an active part in the process during the repairs. I acknowledge his comments
that this was necessary to avoid further delays. But it was his decision to involve himself in
the project to the degree that he did. LV appointed a loss adjustor and had staff in place to
manage the claim, which is what it was reasonably required to do.
Im sorry to hear of the bereavement he and his wife suffered during the repair works. Im
also mindful of the care Mrs B needed to provide to her mother, and the issues caused due
to the time they were living away from their home.
Given the distance of the alternative accommodation from his home, I think its reasonable toexpect LV to pay for any additional travel costs this caused. I note the business says it will
consider any such reasonable costs, which I think is fair. Mr B should contact LV to
demonstrate these costs for it to consider.
In summary I dont think LV treated Mr B fairly when handling his claim, because of the delay
in completing works and the communication issues identified. Because of this I think it
should pay him £1,000 compensation, in total, to acknowledge the inconvenience and
distress caused to him and his family.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited should:
-pay Mr B £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
delays.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr B sent detailed further comments annotated to each section of my provisional decision. I 
will briefly summarise his comments here, but for clarity I have read all of the information he 
provided in detail. 
Mr B comments on LVs version of events regarding the alternative accommodation. He says 
the repair works were intended to complete much sooner than four months. The initial rental 
period was set at four months, but this was only to be safe  this was never planned as the 
timeline for the repairs.  Mr B says this was prolonged due to LVs contractors negligence.
Mr B says the properties LV sourced were wholly unsuitable and the contractor it used 
agreed it probably didnt have the local understanding of suitable properties. He says he 
obtained a property for a lower cost than LVs contractor had suggested. Because of LVs 
contractor failure to plan appropriately he was forced to find alternative accommodation with 
one weeks notice. He says this was a small cottage  had an equivalent to his home been 
found it would have been significantly more expensive. He says this was the result of poor 
planning on LVs part. Mr B says he didnt choose to arrange the accommodation himself but 
wasnt prepared to leave this to chance. 
Mr B says the properties offered didnt meet the criteria specified for a number of reasons 
including; the need for his mother in law to stay over and be suitable for her health 
requirements, the distance from his home, limited parking, and an area was suggested that 
was considered unsuitable. 
Mr B says the key start points on the project were the removal of the boiler and AGA. LVs 
contractor didnt contact the AGA specialist until three days before work was due to start on 
the property. He says there was then a four-week delay for LVs contractor to process a 
supplier application form for the AGA specialist. And payment wasnt provided within the 
AGA specialists required time frame, so it sent this to Mr B and refused to do any more work 
until it was paid. Mr B says this led to delays. 
Mr B say he has spoken to the AGA specialist. It says LVs contractor contacted it in January 
2021 but didnt engage it until toward the end of February. Mr B says he was in constant 
contact with LVs contractor at this time and had asked it relevant questions regarding the 
AGA specialist. He says he didnt receive full responses to these questions. Mr B says the 
initial work the AGA specialist carried out was under pro-forma invoice terms for immediate 
payment. But by the end of March, going into April, no payment had been made.  Mr B says this resulted in the AGA specialist asking its chosen sub-contractor to deal directly 
with LVs contractor because of the payment delays. He says this created dead time in the 
project at the end of April 2021 until the end of May. 
In my provisional decision I referred to it being a difficult time for Mr B and his family  given 
the damage caused to his home and the extensive repairs that were required. Mr B says this 
doesnt satisfactorily capture what happened. He refers to his wifes poor health and that of 
her mother who required her care during this period. Mr B says the alternative 
accommodation impacted here, and LV had been made aware of his familys circumstances. 
Mr B says the project timeframe started to slip because there were long periods when 
contractors werent onsite because LVs contractor hadnt arranged this. 
Mr B says he doesnt agree that the delays in the repairs were unforeseen, but that they 
were due to LVs contractors negligence. He says drying did take two weeks, but this 
shouldnt have compromised the time frame for completion of the works. Also that more 
damage was found to the kitchen units than originally thought, but he says this was known 
and approval given to replace these items in February 2021. Mr B highlights the original plan 
from LVs contractor was to complete the work by mid-April. 
Mr B says he has fuel receipts to be able to provide to LV so it can consider a payment for 
additional travel costs. But he doesnt think this will be relevant to any calculation for the 
costs he incurred. He says fuel is only one component of the additional cost and relevant 
expenses for which receipts are not going to be retained. He says the £10 per adult per day 
charge, referenced by our investigator  equates to a payment of £2080 for two adults for 
the 104 days in question. Mr B thinks this represents a more reasonable assessment of his 
additional costs and the disruption caused.   
Mr B concludes his comments to say the compensation suggested doesnt nearly or 
reasonably cover the damages suffered. He says hes concerned that LVs contractor hasnt 
had input in this process. He also says the involvement of the loss adjustor wasnt at the 
intensive level needed.
LV didnt provide any comments or further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about Mr Bs further comments regarding the alternative accommodation he 
stayed at and how this was sourced. I understand what he says about not leaving the 
situation up to chance to ensure he and his family had somewhere suitable to stay for the 
duration of the repairs. I acknowledge that the property he stayed in was far smaller than his 
home and this created issues for him and his wife, and when attempting to provide care for 
his mother in law. 
In my provisional decision I acknowledged the difficulties Mr B and his family had faced 
during this time. I note his comments that he doesnt think this captures the situation and that 
he had couldnt leave finding accommodation to chance. My intention was by no means to 
diminish the impact all of this had on Mr B and his family. This was clearly a distressing time. 
The criteria used by LVs contractor was for a 2/3-bedroom house. I note the reasons Mr B 
gave for why the properties suggested werent suitable. But its clear that properties suitable 
for Mr Bs needs were limited within a reasonable distance from his home. He experienced the same issue when sourcing a property himself. Having considered his further comments 
Im not persuaded that LV treated him unfairly when attempting to source accommodation. 
So, although I sympathise with the upset Mr B and his family felt, I wont be changing my 
decision in relation to this point. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments relating to the involvement of the AGA specialist. I 
understand that he was concerned that from an early stage the specialist should be involved 
to avoid delays. I also acknowledge his description of payment issues with the specialists 
invoices. In my provisional decision I said I didnt think it was reasonably known what the 
AGA work entailed prior to the specialist attending in February 2021. I said I didnt think LV 
shouldve anticipated significant issues with this aspect of the repair, or that it has been 
shown that the specialist couldve been involved earlier, given the availability issues. 
Mr B has sent in an email he received from the AGA specialist in June 2022. This says that it 
was approached in January 2021 by LVs contractor. It says it received chasing emails and 
communications including sub-contractor forms. The specialist says the delay seems to be 
from its end due to unprecedented work levels. It says it finally managed to get an estimate 
for works emailed over in late February 2021, which LVs contractor accepted the following 
day. The specialist again says that the delay seems to be mostly down to its workload. It 
says there were some issues with payment, but it feels that it did the best it could with the 
work load it had at the time. 
I have thought about Mr Bs comments and what the AGA specialist said in its email to him. I 
acknowledge there was a miscommunication when the specialist turned up at his home 
unannounced, which I commented upon in my provisional decision. I also understand Mr B 
has strong views that the specialist shouldve been engaged earlier, and that LVs contractor 
failed to arrange timely payment. But the specialists comments indicate it was its workload 
at the time that was the major factor in work not being completed sooner. 
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that overall, it is likely that the repairs couldve 
been completed sooner, especially if communication from LVs contractor had been of a 
higher standard. Having considered Mr Bs further comments and evidence concerning the 
AGA specialist, I still think a total compensation payment of £1,000 is fair to acknowledge 
the delays caused by poor communication.  
I note Mr Bs request that LV should pay £10 a day for each of him and his wife, for the 104 
days his daily living was disrupted. I have read his policy terms and conditions, and this isnt 
something provided for by his policy. LV paid for alternative accommodation as opposed to 
Mr B remaining at his home whilst works were ongoing. This was to avoid the disruption of 
living in a property where repairs were being undertaken. In these circumstances Im 
satisfied that £1,000 compensation is appropriate to recognise the inconvenience and 
distress caused. 
I do think that its fair for LV to pay for additional travel costs. It has said its willing to 
consider this. I think this is reasonable. I dont see why Mr Bs additional travel costs cant be 
considered for the additional distances he travelled whilst staying at the alternative 
accommodation. LV should consider this on provision of the relevant information to assess 
these costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should:
-pay Mr B £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman