DRN-2930268
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.  
 
Mr O, a director of N, has brought the complaint on Ns behalf.  
What happened
N held a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. It claimed on its policy after 
closing due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and to 
protect its staff. N said it had been contacted by a customer on 20 March 2020 who said they 
were extremely unwell with Covid-19. As this customer had been on its premises on 6 March 
2020, N arranged for a deep clean of the premises.
  
In August 2020, Ageas asked if Ns customers had symptoms of Covid-19 at its premises. N 
said it wasnt aware of any symptoms at the time and that the customers symptoms 
developed after attending their appointment. 
Ageas said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable  
disease at the premises, N had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. They said that, while Ns customer might have had Covid-19, they had 
been at the premises two weeks before notifying N that they were unwell and they hadnt 
had any symptoms at the time. As Ageas thought N had closed in response to the national 
lockdown, rather than because someone at their premises had Covid-19, Ageas turned 
down its claim. 
  
N was unhappy with Ageass response and brought its complaint to our service. It provided 
evidence of its customers booking on 6 March. N said the customer had originally had mild 
symptoms on 3 or 4 of March but didnt realise it was Covid-19. The customer then attended 
their appointment on 6 March. The customer became extremely unwell for 7-10 days before 
being admitted to hospital with Covid-19 on 23 March and was later moved to intensive care.
N said other customers had also exhibited symptoms of Covid-19 while at its premises, as 
had members of staff. It said a couple of employees had called in sick and provided a text 
message from 29 February 2020 from an employee who was unwell. 
 
Our investigator looked into Ns complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at Ns premises. 
And, while he accepted Ns customer who attended their appointment on 6 March did 
subsequently have Covid-19, he didnt think he was able to conclude that there had most 
likely been a case of Covid-19 at Ns premises. He also didnt think that there was sufficient 
evidence relating to the other customers and staff of N to conclude that theyd had Covid-
19. 
  
N asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it was impossible to prove whether its 
employees had Covid-19 due to a lack of testing. However, it thought its customer who 
attended its premises on 6 March did most likely have Covid-19 at the time. N thought it had 
provided enough evidence to show there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ns business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Ageas have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ns claim.   
  
The most relevant part of Ns policy covers loss as a result of:  
  
i  any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or   
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
ii  any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below) 
  
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as: 
 
 illness sustained by any person caused by any person resulting from: 
 
i) food or drink poisoning 
ii) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a 
case of the notifiable disease occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as 
defined in the policy, so Ive then considered the information I have to decide if I think its 
more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at Ns premises. 
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which its policy covers.  
One of Ns customers clearly had Covid-19 at the end of March and there is strong evidence 
they were on Ns premises on 6 March. Despite N initially saying its customers symptoms 
started after their appointment, the customer provided a statement to say their symptoms 
started around 3 or 4 March but as they didnt have a high temperature or a cough at that 
time, they didnt think it was Covid-19. They said their condition worsened as the month 
progressed before being admitted to hospital on 23 March. While its possible Ns customer had Covid-19 on 6 March, I havent seen anything apart 
from the customers testimony to support this. It is possible that they were carrying Covid-19 
at this time and only developed the recognised symptoms of Covid-19 later, but it is 
also possible that they contracted Covid-19 after 6 March, becoming increasingly unwell 
through the rest of March. In this particular case, the testimony of the customer to feeling 
unwell on 3 or 4 March is not enough to persuade me that, on the balance of probabilities, 
there was a case of Covid-19 at Ns premises prior to the shops closure.    
I understand that N also had other customers who had symptoms of Covid-19 but I havent 
seen any evidence from any of these customers to support this. N has provided a copy of a 
message from one of its employees dated February 2020 which says theyre unwell. But the 
message doesnt list any symptoms of the employees illness and I also have to bear in mind 
that many people who were unwell at that time didnt have Covid-19. 
For these reasons, I dont think I can fairly conclude that there was most likely a case of 
Covid-19 at Ns premises. So, I dont think this extension provides cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome N was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay Ns claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman