DRN-4424917
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down his pet 
insurance claim because it said he had already claimed up to the policys annual limit for a 
single condition. Mr H says that he was claiming for a different condition. 
What happened
Mr Hs cat needed surgery to remove foreign bodies from his stomach. The surgery was 
successful and the cat was discharged home the next day. On Mr Hs behalf the vet 
submitted a claim, which Red Sands paid up to the £2,000 condition limit. 
Two days after the surgery the cat was re-admitted overnight because he was not eating or 
drinking. The vet recommended another laparoscopy to investigate a thickened area of the 
cats abdomen. Unfortunately the vet had found the cat had had a serious allergic reaction in 
his fat and muscle to the suture material used during the first surgery. The cat was treated 
and again returned home. Mr Hs vet submitted a second insurance claim.
Red Sands turned down the second claim, which it said was related to the first claim for the 
foreign body being a complication of the foreign body surgery. Its policy defined condition as 
any injury or illness with a single cause or diagnosis. Red Sands said the single underlying 
cause of the claim remained the foreign body itself. So the claim had been correctly 
processed under a single condition limit. 
Mr H disagreed and said the cause of the first claim was a foreign body and the cause of the 
second claim was an allergic reaction. So he came to us. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. In his view, the cause and diagnosis of the first 
treatment had been a foreign body and the cause and diagnosis of the second treatment 
was an allergic reaction following a procedure. He thought it was fair for Red Sands to pay 
the second claim, subject to the excess and remaining policy terms and conditions together 
with interest. 
Red Sands did not agree. It maintained the two claims were related to one condition and 
quoted its policy wording (set out below). The clinical history confirmed the stitches were 
required to close the area after foreign body removal surgery. Had the cat not required the 
surgery, he would not have needed stitches. So it was not a new condition but a 
complication from foreign body removal surgery. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint. I will explain my reasons. 
Mr Hs policy provides cover of up to £2,000 per condition, per policy year. The second claim 
was made in the same policy year as the first. 
The policy says:
You can claim up to a set amount for vet fees per policy year for each condition your pet 
might have. You can claim for as many conditions as you need to each policy year, as 
long as you stay within your limit. The cover limit for vet fees resets when you renew, and 
well cover your pets conditions for as long as you have a policy with us.
When we say condition, we mean any injury or illness with a single cause or 
diagnosis. For example, if your pet has an accident, well class any injuries they 
suffer as one condition  even if theyre in different parts of the body. Likewise, if your 
pet has symptoms of a condition that later appears in a different side of the body, 
well class it as one condition.
For the first claim, the cause of the cats condition was the foreign body in his stomach, 
which required surgery.
Red Sands position is that the sutures to which the cat had a severe allergic reaction were 
used during the surgery for the first condition of the foreign body surgery. As such, Red 
Sands argues that the allergic reaction was a complication of the surgery. 
I see the point that Red Sands is making. But in the specific circumstances of this complaint 
and having considered the policy wording I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Red 
Sands to pay the second claim for the allergic reaction. 
The cause of the first condition and claim was a foreign body in the cats stomach. The 
surgery was completed successfully and the cat discharged home. I think its fair to say here 
that the cause of the second condition and claim was a severe allergic reaction to the 
sutures used during a surgical procedure. The veterinary evidence is that the allergic 
reaction was caused by the sutures used in the surgery and not by the foreign body in the 
cats stomach. 
Red Sands says that the allergic reaction was a complication of the first surgery to remove 
the foreign body. But Red Sands has not referred me to any policy wording excluding a 
complication of surgery for a condition covered under the policy.
It follows that I think Red Sands should fairly pay Mr Hs second claim for the cats allergic 
reaction, subject to the policy excess, the condition limit of £2,000 and the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. Red Sands should add interest to the settlement as set out below. 
Putting things right
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Hs claim for his cats 
allergic reaction, subject to the applicable policy excess, the condition limit of £2,000 and the 
remaining policy terms and condition. It must add interest* to the settlement at the simple 
rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
*If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to take the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman