DRN-3212005
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Everyday Lending Limited  trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) provided 
her with loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mrs M took out two loans with EDL, on the following basis:
Loan Date Amount 
borrowedTerm APR Monthly 
repaymentTotal repayable
1 March 
2019£2,500 18 
months149.3% £269.27 £4,846.86
2 September 
2019£5,000 36 
months106.8% £356.35 £12,828.60
Mrs M is represented, but for ease I will refer to Mrs M only throughout.
Mrs M complained to EDL in July 2020. She said, in summary, that EDL had been 
irresponsible in lending to her and that it hadnt carried out thorough and appropriate checks 
before agreeing to lend. She said this had caused her financial difficulties and distress.
EDL didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that it considered the affordability 
checks it had carried out ahead of granting each loan to be reasonable and proportionate 
and it had calculated that Mrs M had sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments 
on both loans without undue difficulty. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this Service. 
An investigator here asked for some further information, including copies of bank statements 
in the lead up to each loan. They then reached an opinion, after they didnt receive the 
information requested. 
They said, in summary, that for Loan 1 EDL hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, but that there wasnt enough information to conclude that the lending was 
unaffordable. For Loan 2, they thought that EDL ought to have realised from the checks it 
carried out, that Mrs M would be unlikely to be able to make the loan repayments on a 
sustainable basis. And that EDL should refund interest and charges plus 8% simple interest. 
EDL disagreed with the outcome regarding Loan 2. It said, in summary, that the credit Mrs M 
had taken in the lead up to Loan 2 had all been taken into account in the affordability 
calculations. The purpose of Loan 2 was to tidy up her finances and this happened 
because after taking out the loan, Mrs Ms financial commitments went down from £2,134.22 
per month to £1,187.46 per month.
The investigator then issued another view, in relation to Loan 2. They said, in summary, that 
because we hadnt received copy bank statements from Mrs M, they couldnt be sure what 
reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown. And that, because of this, they didnt 
think EDL needed to do anything further. 
Another investigator then issued another view. They thought the complaint should be upheld 
in full, because the information EDL gathered about Mrs Ms income and expenditure before 
granting both of the loans, indicated that she didnt have enough disposable income to meet 
the repayments on either loan on a sustainable basis. For both loans, this was due to the 
income figures used by EDL in its affordability calculations being too high, based on the 
information it had gathered. As such, she recommended that EDL refund the interest and 
charges for both loans.
EDL disagreed with this latest view. It said, in summary, that if Mrs Ms income was as 
stated by the investigator in the view, then it may have agreed with the outcome. However, it 
explained why it considered the income figure it had used for Loan One to be accurate. For 
Loan 2, it said that if it had calculated Mrs Ms main income using an average figure from the 
Payslips it had (rather than use the higher figure it used which appears from its notes on file 
to have been calculated using Mrs Ms year to date pay), this would have slightly reduced 
the overall income figure. But that this still left Mrs M with enough disposable income to meet 
the loan repayments. It said that if the investigator still thought the case should be upheld, it 
wanted the case escalated to an ombudsman 
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld, so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in full, for largely the same reasons given by the last 
investigator. Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Given the dates of sale of the loans, the FCA CONC rules apply. In essence, EDL needed to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Mrs M could afford to make 
the repayments on both loans, in a sustainable manner. It also needed to make fair lending 
decisions based on the information it obtained. 
Loan One
EDL has explained that it assessed Mrs Ms ability to meet the loan repayments by carrying 
out an income and expenditure calculation. It calculated Mrs Ms income using information 
that it received in the form of payslips and credits into her bank account. 
For this loan, EDL calculated that Mrs Ms income was £3,382.66 per month, broken down 
as £2,160.96 per month from her main income and £1,221.70 per month from her secondary 
income (which I note EDL has described as having been from a temp role). However, I 
think that the income figure EDL used in its affordability calculation was too high, based on the information it had.
First, in terms of Mrs Ms main income, the two Payslips EDL provided as part of its file, 
show the following:
- January 2019 (£2,134.35)
- February 2019 (£2,119.83)
The checklist on file containing information relevant to the loan application indicates that 
where the income amounts over two months are similar, the average would be taken. This 
would give a figure of approximately £2,127, which is slightly lower than the figure EDL used 
in its calculation. Its not clear why EDL used a higher figure, though there is not much of a 
difference. 
However, it is the figure that EDL used for Mrs Ms second income that is significant. EDLs 
figure of £1,221.70 appears to have been derived from an average weekly income figure of 
£281.93 per week  this presumably being the average payment into her account in relation 
to this secondary job, that EDL calculated. However, the bank statements that Mrs M 
provided to EDL before it agreed to lend (covering approximately a nine week period), show 
that she only received a total of four payments from this secondary job. She received a total 
of £1,075.92 over this period. This equates to an average income of £119.54 per week  
significantly lower than the figure EDL decided to use. 
Given what the bank statements showed  that Mrs M wasnt receiving a secondary income 
every week, I dont think the basis upon which EDL assessed her secondary income was 
fair. I cant see from the file that EDL sought or received any kind of assurances from Mrs M 
as to the frequency and amount of future income from that secondary job. 
Using the figure of £119.54 per week (equating to around £518 per month) and adding this 
to the £2,127 figure from Mrs Ms main income, gives a total monthly income of 
approximately £2,645. EDL assessed Mrs Ms expenditure as being £850 on rent, £902.31 
on existing creditor repayments and £880 living expenses based on Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) averages. This leaves remaining disposable income of £12.69 per month  
before the EDL monthly repayment amount is taken into account.
Given the extent of existing credit that Mrs M had at the point of applying for this loan, it is 
questionable whether it was reasonable and proportionate for EDL to use an ONS average 
figure for living expenses  rather than take a closer look at her actual expenditure. But even 
using this living expenses figure, had EDL assessed affordability with the lower income per 
my analysis, I think it would reasonably have concluded that Mrs M wouldnt be able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. As such, granting the loan represented irresponsible 
lending.
Loan Two
From what EDL has said, it assessed affordability for Loan Two in much the same way as it 
did for Loan One.
For this loan, EDL calculated that Mrs Ms income was £3,812.86 per month, broken down 
as £2,710.40 per month from her main income and £1,102.46 per month from her secondary 
income (which appears to be from the same temp role). However, I think that in the same 
way as I found for Loan One, the income figure EDL used in its affordability calculation for 
Loan Two was again too high, based on the information it had.EDLs notes from the time of sale indicate that the main income figure was derived from a 
recent pay slip and a year to date calculation. With that said, its not clear to me how it 
arrived at the figure of £2,710.40. In response to the last assessment, EDL noted that if it 
had used the average of the two most recent amounts of pay from Mrs Ms main job (taken 
from the amounts coming into her bank account) before applying for this loan, this would 
have meant a figure of around £2,507. This would seem to me to have been a reasonable 
way to assess Mrs Ms income  not least because it is based on the most recent amounts 
of pay, which would have been likely (as a start point and in the absence of any kind of 
further verification) to be most representative of her income going forwards.
I also again have concerns with the income figure EDL used for Mrs Ms second income. 
The documents on file indicate that EDL assessed Mrs Ms second income to be £1,102.46 
per month. Once again, its not entirely clear how it came to this figure. But regardless, 
Mrs Ms bank statement information in the lead up to the loan, show that over an 8 week 
period in the lead up to applying for this loan, Mrs M received a total of £1,631.14, from six 
payments into her account. Once again, the statement information shows that Mrs M didnt 
receive a payment every week. Given this, I again dont think the basis upon which EDL 
assessed her secondary income was fair. I cant see from the file that EDL sought or 
received any kind of assurances from Mrs M as to the frequency and amount of future 
income from that secondary job. 
The average weekly income from the second job equates to approximately £204 per week. 
This equates to approximately £884 per month  a figure significantly lower than the one 
used by EDL in its affordability assessment. 
Adding this to the £2,507 figure from Mrs Ms main income, gives a total monthly income of 
approximately £3,391 per month. EDL assessed Mrs Ms expenditure as being £750 on rent, 
£1,187.43 on net existing creditor repayments (taking account of consolidation from the new 
loan) and £1,025 living expenses based on ONS averages. This leaves remaining 
disposable income of around £429 per month  before the EDL monthly repayment amount 
(£356) is taken into account.
Once again, given the extent of existing credit that Mrs M had at the point of applying for this 
loan, evidence of some Payday Loan usage in the lead up to the loan and that she was 
applying to borrow more money only six or so months after taking out Loan One, it is 
questionable whether it was reasonable and proportionate for EDL to use an ONS average 
figure for living expenses  rather than take a closer look at her actual expenditure. But even 
using this living expenses figure, had EDL assessed affordability with the lower income per 
my analysis, I think it would reasonably have concluded that Mrs M would be unlikely to be 
able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Although one arrives at a positive net disposable income figure, it is small and would have 
left very little wriggle room for any kind of adverse change in circumstances. This is 
particularly taking account of the fact that around 45% of Mrs M total new monthly income 
would (factoring in the new loan repayment figure) be taken up by debt repayments. So I 
think the decision to grant Mrs M this loan was also irresponsible. 
And given the difficulty Mrs M says the granting of both loans caused her (and I note her 
credit file shows substantial Payday Loan activity following Loan two), I think this means EDL 
needs to do something to put things right.  Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs M in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loans in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mrs M 
was given the loans and she had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs M back in the position she 
would be in if she hadnt been given the loans in the first place. However, I dont think it 
appropriate for EDL to benefit from unfair lending decisions.
Bearing this in mind, EDL needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest, fees and charges Mrs M has paid to date.
2. Reduce any outstanding capital balance by the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to any 
historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the 
amount in question should be given back to Mrs M and 8% simple interest should be added 
to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of the interest, 
fees and charges.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Everyday Lending Limited  
trading as Everyday Loans. I direct it to do what Ive set out above under Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman