DRN-1662244
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt uphold a chargeback request she 
made through them and didnt refund all of the money she spent on a holiday when 
considering a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Miss S so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Lloyds but by Mastercard.
Its usual in these circumstances for the bank to credit the sums in dispute and then raise a 
chargeback request. But if a merchant defends the chargeback and the scheme provider 
subsequently rejects the chargeback, then the bank will take the disputed transaction back.
Thats what happened here, and I dont think Lloyds therefore did anything wrong when 
managing the chargeback process for Miss S.
section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim or a chargeback. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in 
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Miss S paid £414.85 for the holiday which included flights. She missed the return flight 
because her baggage was delayed, and she transferred to a new hotel for the last three 
days of her scheduled holiday because she was dissatisfied with the quality of her room. So, 
I think there was a breach of the implied terms of her contract with the merchant.
But, in respect of that breach, Lloyds have refunded the cost of Miss Ss alternative 
accommodation for the three days and refunded the return flight; I think thats sufficient.
They have refunded all but £171.70 of the original holiday cost and its clear that Miss S did 
benefit from the outbound flight to her holiday destination and from a couple of nights 
accommodation. I therefore think the redress theyve provided is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I can also see the bank have compensated Miss S for service failings theyve accepted and, 
having reviewed the detail of those issues, I think Lloyds have been reasonable.
Miss S says shes incurred interest on the outstanding credit card bill, but I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund that interest as it was Miss Ss choice not to make 
payment in the timescales required to avoid the interest charges.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman