DRN-3218155
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc did not intervene when she unwittingly made a 
payment as part of a scam. 
What happened
On 6 July 2020, Miss W made an international payment of £1,415. She thought she was 
paying the security deposit and the first months rent for a flat shed seen advertised online. 
Unfortunately, she was really interacting with fraudsters. 
Miss W contacted the fraudsters after seeing an advert for the flat online. She was looking to 
move as her job was customer facing and her family were shielding due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. She says the website she used to find the property is a well-known one used to 
find flats and house shares.
Miss W spoke with someone she thought was with the owner of the flat. He told her they 
lived abroad. He sent Miss W a link to another website specialising in short term property 
rentals where she could view further photos of the flat. 
The fraudsters told Miss W that the minimum booking period was 28 days and she needed 
to pay directly. Miss W recalls they had discussed her taking the flat for six months and 
paying monthly. Miss W agreed to pay a deposit and one months rent to secure the 
booking. 
Shortly afterwards, the property website sent her an email advising they believed the listing 
was a scam. Sadly, this came too late as Miss W had already sent the money. She 
contacted the bank to report what had happened. Santander contacted the receiving bank to 
try and recover the funds Miss W had sent, but ultimately none remained. 
When Santander declined to refund the loss, Miss W made a complaint. She felt the bank 
had not done enough to protect her. She said the payment was out of character for her so 
Santander should have put a hold on it and asked questions. She said this would have 
uncovered the scam and stopped the loss. 
Santander issued its final response on 27 July 2020. It said there was nothing more it could 
do to help Miss W because shed authorised the payment. It paid her £50 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill because it had given her conflicting information when discussing the 
claim. Miss W then referred her complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said the payment wouldnt have appeared suspicious or immediately concerning 
to Santander at the time it was made. He didnt think Santander had missed an opportunity 
to identify the payment was being made in relation to a scam. He thought the bank had done 
all that it could to try and help recover the funds when it discovered what had happened. He 
concluded the £50 compensation Santander had offered for its poor service was fair. 
Miss W disagreed. She pointed out the bank had previously intervened in a genuine 
purchase she was making for concert tickets and made it very difficult for her to ultimately 
book them. She said the sum involved here was much more and considered the fact the 
payment was being made to an international bank account should have rung alarm bells. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss W and I can understand why she wants to 
recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. But having looked at 
everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think Santander needs to 
reimburse Miss W or offer her any further compensation. I can understand this will be a very 
disappointing outcome for Miss W, so I will explain why. 
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Santander have 
recognised Miss Ws payment as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference to what happened.
I accept Miss W has been the victim of a scam. But that alone doesnt mean Miss W must be 
reimbursed in full by the bank. That all depends on whether the bank did anything wrong  
that is, could it have done any more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so 
that Miss W would have realised what was happening and stopped before sending the 
money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Miss W made the payment, 
she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with fraudsters. But it was 
still an authorised payment. Miss W does not dispute that she used her security credentials 
to set up and make the payment. Although Miss W did not intend for the money to go to 
fraudsters, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
  Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss W or whether it should have done more than it did. Miss W doesnt dispute she 
made the payment herself. So Santander had an obligation to follow her instructions and make the payment she requested. But there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a payment. As Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So Ive thought about whether the payment Miss W made was out of character and unusual 
enough so that Santander ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be struck. 
There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. Miss Ws bank statements in the months 
leading up to the payment confirm that making international payments wasnt something she 
typically did. Even so, I dont think that alone is enough to say Santander should have 
treated this payment as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Miss Ws activity that day should 
have stood out. The payment she made was for £1,415. Its not uncommon for people to 
make an international payment for a specific purpose and on the face of it, theres nothing 
particularly unusual about this payment in and of itself. It didnt utilise all the funds she had 
available to withdraw and it was unremarkable in amongst Miss Ws typical spending. 
I dont think Santander missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. I dont 
think the amount of the payment would have caused it to stand out enough for the bank to 
have been concerned that Miss W might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
This means Santander did not do anything wrong by following the instructions Miss W gave 
and sending the payment without further checks.
Ive also thought what Santander did when Miss W reported she had been the victim of a 
scam. From what I have seen, Santander contacted the receiving bank quickly when it 
learned of what had happened, but sadly no funds remained to be recovered. I am satisfied 
that Santander did what it could to try and recover the money that Miss W had sent. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Miss W has been through. But I am only able to 
consider whether Santander can fairly be held liable for her loss. After carefully considering 
everything, Im unable to fairly say Santander should have done more. As such, it would not 
be fair to ask the bank to refund the loss or require it to do anything more in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman