DRN-3742705
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to respond promptly to an 
appeal shed raised to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can understand Miss Bs frustration that despite writing three letters to Santander to appeal 
their decision to reject her loan application, they failed to respond in sufficient time to enable 
her appeal to be dealt with.
Santander accept that they didnt respond to Miss Bs appeal letters in time. They say the 
letters were delayed because of issues with the postal service and I understand Miss B 
disputes that.
But regardless of the reason for Santander not receiving or responding to Miss Bs 
correspondence I think the £250 they offered Miss B was sufficient to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Santander didnt have to provide Miss B with a loan; it was a commercial decision they were 
free to take and theres no guarantee that any appeal Miss B had made would be successful. 
But, the decision was important to Miss B and I can understand she would have been keen 
to appeal it and would have expected a prompt reply. I think Santanders failure to reply 
would have been distressing for Miss B but, I dont think shes experienced any financial loss 
as the business have explained it would have been unlikely to have overturned the decision 
to lend even if the letters had been received on time. So, having considered all of the 
circumstances, I think the compensation provided was sufficient and Im not asking 
Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman