DRN-2147259
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided misleading information 
about a corporate action event and subsequently sold his shareholding without his consent.
What happened
Mr W held shares within a Smart Investor Account with Barclays. Barclays wrote to Mr W on 
17 March 2020, informing him about a Proposed Scheme of Arrangement for a specific 
shareholding. Mr W was put on notice of the potential re-domiciliation of a company, which 
would result in the cancellation of the shares in AIM. As shares listed on a foreign exchange 
could not be supported by the Smart Investor platform, Mr W was advised to remove the 
stock from the platform ahead of the effective corporate action event date. Mr W was 
presented with options. One option was to sell the shares before the last trading date and Mr 
W was advised that further information would be provided when the timetable of events had 
been announced by the company.
Barclays then presented Mr W with three options in a letter dated 2 April, either to give 
instructions to sell the shares, to transfer the shares to another platform or to take no action, 
which would result in Barclays selling the shares by the proposed date of 15 April with funds 
being credited to the account. The covering letter stated that if Mr W wished to make a 
choice, he needed to respond by the deadline date. The letter went onto explain that if no 
response was received by that date, it was would be assumed that no action was being 
taken and the default option would be carried out on Mr Ws behalf, namely, the shares 
would be sold on 15 April.
Mr W contacted Barclays by phone on 20 April just before the delisting date and gave 
instructions for the shares to be sold. Mr W was disappointed to discover that the shares had 
already been sold on 15 April. He says they were sold without his authorisation or consent. 
Mr W relied upon the first line in option one of the letter of 2 April, which said,
 
You can sell your holding of XX shares at any point prior to the delisting date. You must 
ensure your trade has been carried out before 4.30pm on Monday 13 April 2020 by logging 
into your Smart Investor account and placing your order by following the normal dealing 
process. Online transaction fees will apply. This option allows sales proceeds to be available 
for reinvestment at the earliest opportunity. Alternatively, you can sell by calling us on 0800 
279 3667 or if calling outside the UK +44141 352 3919. Telephone transaction fees will 
apply.
Mr W says he did attempt to sell before the delisting date and the wording within the letter 
was ambiguous and misleading. As a result of the shares being sold on 15 April, Mr W 
received less than had the shares been sold on 20 April. He asks to be compensated for this 
difference.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. She thought that 
Barclays had provided clear information about the steps available to Mr W, with clear 
deadlines. She did not agree that the deadline for selling the shares was misleading or 
ambiguous.
Mr W disagrees with the view, maintaining that Barclays only later declared a different 
meaning to the words used in the Corporate Action Event Details. Those acting on his behalf 
say Barclays misunderstood the wording and have attached a different meaning to shift 
blame to Mr W for the consequences of an early sale.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information sent at the time. In addition to option one set out above, option 
two was to transfer the holdings to an alternative provider before the effective date of the 
event. Barclays requested that any such instruction had to be received and completed no 
later than close of business on Monday 13 April. If the transfer had not completed by this 
date, the default option of selling the shares would be taken. The third option was to take no 
action. This would result in the shares being sold, with a proposed date for the sale of 15 
April 2020.
The covering letter expressly stated that if Mr W wished to make a choice he needed to 
respond by the deadline and if Barclays hadnt heard from him, the default option would be 
carried out on his behalf. On balance, it is my view that the deadline for taking action was 13 
April and this was repeated throughout the correspondence. The default option was for the 
shares to be sold on the proposed date of 15 April.  
Overall, I consider that the totality of the information provided by Barclays was reasonably 
clear. The covering letter advised Mr W that he had to make a choice, otherwise the default 
option would apply. The options then gave Mr W the opportunity to make an informed choice 
about which step to take. I do not agree that it is fair and reasonable to consider the first line 
of the first option in isolation. The sentence should be read in context. It was positioned 
within a paragraph, which expressly stated the deadline response date. Further the third 
option explained that the shares would be sold on 15 April if Barclays hadnt heard from 
Mr W. Overall, I am not persuaded that the information provided was misleading or that 
Barclays have interpreted the information differently after the event. I dont agree with 
Mr Ws interpretation that the deadline of 13 April was for online transactions only. 
Mr W accepts that he received the correspondence from Barclays in time and its been said 
on his behalf that he read it in full, so Im satisfied that he was given notice about the options 
available to him and the consequences of not responding within the deadlines. 
I appreciate that Mr W says he interpreted the information differently, but considering my 
findings above, I cant fairly say that was down to Barclays having done anything wrong. It 
was unfortunate that Mr W contacted Barclays a week after the deadline for action had 
passed, by which point the shares had already been sold. But Im satisfied that Barclays 
explained this step would be taken if they hadnt heard from Mr W. It hasnt been suggested 
that Mr W was unable to contact Barclays sooner.
My final decisionIm sorry to disappoint Mr W, but Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman