DRN-3611242
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the customer service he received from Tesco Personal Finance Plc 
(trading as Tesco Bank) following some fraudulent activity on his credit card account.
What happened
On 22 June 2021, Tesco Bank sent a text message to let Mr S know that there was a 
possible compromise of his existing card (Card 1) and theyd sent him a new card (Card 2). 
They also told him that Card 1 would remain active for 10 days.
Mr S contacted Tesco Bank on 11 July 2021, as he hadnt received Card 2 and was no 
longer able to use Card 1. During this call, he let them know that hed moved address, but 
his mail was being forwarded to him by the new owners of his previous address. 
Tesco Bank updated Mr S address but made a spelling mistake in doing so. They told him 
that Card 2 had been dispatched to his previous address, but since he hadnt received it yet, 
they arranged to cancel it and send a replacement card (Card 3) to him.
Mr S contacted Tesco Bank on 16 July 2021 to report the fraudulent transactions on his 
account. Hed also received Card 2 at this point. During this call, Mr S was told it could take 
up to 14 to 20 calendar days to investigate and give him a refund. They confirmed that he 
wasnt being held liable for these transactions, so they wouldnt expect payment from him, 
and any interest accrued would be refunded. He was also advised that he could continue 
using Card 2 after 24 hours.
On the same day, Mr S received Card 3 through the post. He was confused about why a 
further card had been issued when Tesco Bank had told him he could use Card 2. So, he 
called them again and after a lengthy discussion, he was informed he should use Card 3. 
Tesco Bank werent able to explain why Card 3 had been ordered or why hed previously 
been told he could continue to use Card 2.
Mr S raised a complaint as he was unhappy Tesco Bank didnt stop Card 1 immediately 
when they suspected fraudulent activity. He wanted an explanation of why Tesco Bank didnt 
contact him about these transactions and why he was given poor customer service. He also 
raised concerns about their systems and processes which he says caused confusion and 
frustration.
Tesco Bank explained they received a notification that Mr S card may have been 
compromised due to a breach of security with a third-party retailer. So, they issued Mr S 
Card 2, but left Card 1 active for 10 days to minimise the impact on him.
They explained Mr S account was blocked on 23 June 2021, to query an attempted 
transaction, but couldnt find any evidence that they tried to contact Mr S regarding this. 
They apologised and raised this with their fraud strategy team.
They also apologised for the customer service Mr S received. They accepted they made a 
mistake when updating Mr S address, and he shouldve been passed to the relevant 
department regarding the block applied to his account on 23 June 2021 when he called on 
11 July 2021.
They agreed the service on other calls of 16 July 2021, should have been better. They 
accepted the calls couldve been handled better as they were lengthy, he was given 
incorrect information and they werent able to give an explanation regarding his cards.
They said theyd taken Mr S feedback on board and sent him a total of £195 compensation 
as an apology.   
Mr S contacted Tesco Bank again on 11 August 2021, for an update on his claim. He was 
told during this call that theyd refunded all the fraudulent transactions on 30 July 2021. Mr S 
was unhappy Tesco Bank hadnt contacted him to tell him the outcome of their investigation. 
It was also identified that one fraudulent transaction hadnt been refunded yet. 
Tesco Bank apologised that one of the transactions wasnt refunded despite Mr S reporting it 
in his initial claim. They explained due to human error the transaction wasnt processed and 
gave him the refund. They also agreed they should be doing more to make customers aware 
of the progress of their fraud claim and said theyd taken feedback on board. They gave him 
a further £100 compensation for the overall inconvenience and upset he was caused. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. In summary, our investigator said that Tesco 
Bank had made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. Mr S disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank havent held Mr S liable for the fraudulent transactions and have given him a 
refund. So, I dont need to make a finding on this aspect as its already resolved. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that Tesco Bank shouldve stopped Card 1 straightaway to prevent 
any unauthorised use. I dont disagree with the logic of his point here.
Equally, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco Bank to take the approach that they did 
in leaving Card 1 active for 10 days. I say this because on 22 June 2021, Tesco Bank were 
only taking precautionary measures after theyd been made aware of the data breach at the 
third-party retailer. 
Although most of the fraudulent transactions had already taken place by this point, Mr S 
hadnt reported it to Tesco Bank yet understandably as he hadnt seen his statement. But 
since Tesco Bank didnt know these transactions werent made by Mr S, they had no reason 
at the time to think this card had in fact been compromised. So, I dont think Tesco Bank 
acted unreasonably in leaving Card 1 active for 10 days to minimise the impact on Mr S.
Ultimately, Tesco Bank are entitled to exercise their judgement to decide how to operate 
their business, systems and processes, including dealing with these types of situations. And 
their risk appetite is a legitimate commercial decision which our service isnt able to interfere 
with.
In any event, Tesco Bank stopped Card 1 on 23 June 2021 which is the day after they 
notified Mr S about the potential compromise and most of the fraudulent activity had already been carried out. And Tesco Bank didnt hold Mr S liable for the fraudulent transactions, so I 
dont think hes been impacted adversely by Card 1 not being stopped immediately.
Mr S feels Tesco Bank shouldve contacted him to check if these transactions were made by 
him. Looking at the transactions, most of them are for relatively smaller amounts of less than 
£100, although there were two larger transactions one for £180.89 and £414.79.
I dont think these transactions were so unusual or out of character for Mr S spending 
pattern to reasonably say that Tesco Bank should have noticed something suspicious 
sooner. This is because his statements show Mr S has made transactions up to the value of 
around £800 in the few weeks prior to the fraud taking place.
I understand there was a further purchase of around £580 on 23 June 2021 and Tesco Bank 
declined to query the authenticity of the transaction. Im satisfied this was likely the earliest 
point for Tesco Bank security system to trigger a check as this payment was attempted on 
the same day following the larger transaction of £414.79. 
And although Tesco Bank have accepted that they cant evidence contacting Mr S to verify 
the transaction, they prevented any further misuse of Mr S account by blocking his card on 
23 June 2021.
I agree with Mr S that Tesco Bank shouldve contacted him on or around 23 June 2021, to 
discuss the declined transaction. I think this wouldve likely brought other fraudulent activity 
to light sooner and potentially avoided some of the later calls Mr S had to make to resolve 
the issue.
Ive listened to the relevant phone calls here and I agree the customer service Mr S received 
fell short of what he could rightly expect from Tesco Bank. And theyve also accepted this.
Tesco Bank agreed they made a mistake when updating Mr S address on 11 July 2021. I 
understand this was a spelling mistake where one letter was missing. I dont think this error 
was notable given that Mr S still received his correspondence and their system had the 
correct address recorded.
On 16 July 2021, Mr S spent time speaking to Tesco Bank telling them which transactions 
were fraudulent. He was then transferred to the relevant team and had to go through these 
transactions again. I think this unnecessarily wasted his time which wouldve caused him 
frustration and annoyance. 
I know Mr S is unhappy that his statements dont mirror the transaction list used by Tesco 
Bank during phone calls. As explained above, our service cant tell Tesco Bank how their 
statements and transactions list should be set out. But I appreciate the differences caused 
confusion and added to his frustration when speaking to them.
During this call, Mr S was also given incorrect information about which card to use. Tesco 
Bank also failed to clarify that they wouldnt contact Mr S to discuss the outcome of their 
investigation, despite Mr S asking this question. 
It would have been confusing for Mr S to be told he could use Card 2 after 24 hours to then 
receive Card 3. When Mr S called Tesco Bank, the call was particularly long given the query 
he had was straightforward. They also werent able to provide Mr S clarification on why Card 
3 was ordered, nor why he was given incorrect information on the previous call. I think this 
caused Mr S avoidable inconvenience, disappointment and frustration.Tesco Bank failed to tell Mr S that theyd refunded him on 30 July 2021, which meant he had 
to call again on 11 August 2021 to ask for an update causing him unnecessary 
inconvenience. I can understand why Mr S was disappointed that he wasnt made aware of 
the progress of his fraud claim. 
There were also delays in refunding one fraudulent transaction of £180.89 which was only 
processed after Mr S had identified it was missing, adding to Mr S frustration and 
annoyance.
I appreciate Mr S would like an explanation for why these issues occurred. While its difficult 
to say exactly why, mistakes do happen, and these appear to be due to human error and/or 
training issues. I can see Tesco Bank have apologised and passed feedback to the staff 
involved to provide training going forward. I think these are reasonable steps to take in the 
circumstances.  
Tesco Bank have also now refunded all the fraudulent transactions ensuring Mr S isnt out of 
pocket, as Id expect them to do. 
Ive carefully thought about whether the compensation theyve paid so far of £295 in total is 
fair, taking into account the impact on Mr S. 
Mr S has told us he constantly worries about using internet banking and making card 
purchases, due to the possibility of his card being cloned or account being hacked. I dont 
underestimate Mr S feelings here but this distress and inconvenience was caused by the 
fraud itself and it wouldnt be fair to hold Tesco Bank responsible for this.
Im mindful that Mr S would likely have had to spend some time reviewing his statements to 
work out which transactions werent made by him, and then go through this with Tesco Bank 
to raise a claim.
While, there were delays in Mr S receiving Card 2 but I couldnt fairly say Tesco Bank were 
to blame for the inconvenience this caused Mr S. I say this because Mr S hadnt updated his 
new address details with Tesco Bank until 11 July 2021, this meant that Card 2 was sent to 
his previous address.
Although the new owners of Mr S previous address were forwarding mail to him, there 
appears to have been some delay as Mr S hadnt received Card 2 when he spoke to Tesco 
Bank on 11 July 2021 but he had received it by 16 July 2021 as confirmed by him during a 
call.
Ive also considered the actions Tesco Bank took to resolve matters. They promptly 
investigated both of Mr S complaints and gave him a final response letter within a week of 
him raising them. They also gave Mr S a refund for most of the transactions within their 
timescale of 14 to 20 calendar days. And he was given the missing refund for one 
transaction shortly after this. 
Tesco Bank also accepted responsibility for their service failings, apologised and took on 
board Mr S feedback. These are reasonable steps Id rightly expect them to take in this 
situation.
That said, I agree there were multiple avoidable customer service issues which caused Mr S 
unnecessary frustration, annoyance and inconvenience which was more than the levels Id 
expect from day-to-day life. The impact on Mr S was more than just minimal and took some 
time and effort on his part to resolve. With all of this in mind, I think the compensation amount of £295 in total is fair and 
reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr S was caused. I dont think 
further compensation is due here as the impact wasnt significant  for instance, if Tesco 
Bank were holding Mr S liable for the fraudulent transaction or refused to refund him. And 
the impact wasnt long lasting  for example, if Tesco Bank took several months to put things 
right.
Overall, Im satisfied Tesco Bank have resolved this complaint fairly and I wont be asking 
them to pay Mr S any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman