DRN-4366356
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs M was introduced to a company Ill refer to as G in August 2021, through the 
recommendation of a friend. She had investment experience and trusted her friends 
recommendation, so contacted G. She found they seemed professional and knowledgeable 
about cryptocurrency trading, and was sent a link to what looked like a genuine trading 
platform. Unfortunately, G were operating a scam.
In late September 2021, she started making payments from her Monzo account to an 
existing cryptocurrency wallet she held (B). From there, she says the funds were loaded on 
to Gs platform. Prior to this, she had been making payments to G from other accounts. She 
had also paid B from her Monzo account before the scam.
By early 2022, Mrs M realised she had been scammed, as she was asked to pay tax fees 
and wasnt able to make any large-value withdrawals. She complained to Monzo that it failed 
to do enough to protect her. She said the payments looked unusual, so it should have 
questioned her. And if it had done so, she wouldnt have proceeded.
Monzo didnt accept liability for Mrs Ms loss, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought Monzo should have identified the first payment as suspicious, and 
that it had missed an opportunity to uncover the scam at that point.
Some of the payments were originally funded by a loan taken out by a limited company 
which Mrs M is the director of, which shouldnt have been used for personal gain. So the 
investigator didnt think Monzo should fairly be expected to refund Mrs M for this  and also 
recommended a deduction of 50% of the remaining loss, to reflect Mrs Ms liability.
Mrs M accepted this recommendation, but Monzo didnt. It said the payments hadnt been 
uncharacteristic due to Mrs Ms history of payments to B  the first of which generated a low 
friction scam warning.
Earlier in September 2023, I issued my provisional deciding explaining why I wasnt minded 
to uphold this complaint. In summary, I explained I wasnt persuaded all the payments went 
to the scam. Although there was a point at which I thought Monzo ought to have done more, 
Im not persuaded it would have succeeded in preventing any fraudulent losses. 
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence. Monzo hasnt provide 
anything further. Mrs M says the payments were a significant increase compared to her 
previous payments to B, so Monzo should have picked up on that. She also says all the 
payments reported were sent on to the scammers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. This is largely for the same reasons given in 
my provisional findings, so Ive set those out below to explain my final decision. But Ive 
added some commentary (set out in italics, for ease) to address the points raised by Mrs M 
in response to my provisional decision. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So, as Mrs M authorised these 
payments, the starting position is that shes liable for them.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. That 
might be the case when a payment looks uncharacteristic and suspicious in line with the 
customers usual account history. However, this duty to intervene is predicated on there 
having been a fraud or scam risk present.
Although the investigator thought Monzo should have identified the first payment as 
suspicious, I think that would be setting too onerous a standard on Monzo. While it was for a 
significant amount, at £5,010, the key thing here is that Mrs M did have a history of making 
payments to the merchant, B.
In the six months prior to the scam, Mrs M paid B over £10,000 within a two-month period. 
This included sizeable payments in the thousands, as well as instances of making multiple 
payments to B on the same day. In that context, while the payment of £5,010  which does 
appear to have been transferred on to G  was an increase, I dont think it looked so unusual 
that Monzo ought to have suspected Mrs M was at risk from fraud or scams.
The next day, Mrs M made two further payments of £5,100 and then £5,010 to B. I think 
there is a stronger case for arguing that constituted an uncharacteristic change in the 
operation in the account. But, based on the records provided, Im not persuaded those 
payments were intended for the scam.
Id reassure Mrs M that I have considered her point about the payments being a significant 
increase compared to previous payments to B. But, for the reasons given, I dont agree that 
the first payment constituted a significant increase. I agree that the second did. But, again as 
set out above, the duty to intervene doesnt apply unless there is actually a scam risk 
present. Ill explain further why Im not persuaded thats the case.  
Mrs M has provided a record of transactions on her G account. This shows money being 
loaded prior to these Monzo payments, as well as a withdrawal of £500. Then deposits were 
made for £26,000 and £10,000 respectively, on the day of the first Monzo payment which 
Ive determined didnt warrant intervention. And they were predominantly funded by 
payments from other accounts. There was then a gap of almost a month before any further 
payments were made; a deposit of £4,025 on 28 October 2021 followed by a further £7,000 
the next day.So the payments totalling £10,110 were made after Mrs M had loaded funds to Gs account, 
and around four weeks before any more funds were transferred over. It appears Mrs M was 
using her B account to trade with cryptocurrency in the interim. Contrary to her initial 
submissions (made via a professional representative), the ten withdrawals from B in October 
2021 seem to have been funded from genuine trading rather than any proceeds from G.
I appreciate Mrs M says the payments did all go to the scammer. But Ive come to my view, 
on the balance of probabilities, based on the records she has provided of her account with G 
 and the transactions made on her B account. Ive set out specifically why Im not 
persuaded these funds all went to the scam above, and Ill touch on this further below. 
Mrs Ms response doesnt provide any specifics or details to explain why my conclusion, 
based on the evidence, is incorrect. And so, on balance, Im still not persuaded its likely all 
these funds were transferred on to G. 
Im therefore not persuaded the expectation to intervene kicks in here, as Im not persuaded 
these payments were made for the scam. Similarly Im not persuaded that, if Monzo had 
asked Mrs M about the payments, she would have mentioned G  rather than saying she 
was using the funds for her own trading on Bs platform. So Im not persuaded Monzo ought 
to have uncovered the scam at this point either.
Funds were next sent on to G in late October 2021. While Mrs M did pay B in the days 
leading up to this (£100 on 26 October; £1,000 on 27 October; £3,050 on 28 October; and 
£230 and £1,800 on 29 October), Im not persuaded that appeared uncharacteristic given 
her payment history. She had been paying B regularly since March 2021, including many 
payments for similar amounts.
While Mrs M went on to make further payments to B, the records she has provided from her 
G account dont show that these were loaded on their platform. And I can see Mrs M was 
doing other trading on Bs platform  buying, selling, and converting various 
cryptocurrencies, as well as making withdrawals. So again, its unclear whether the funds 
were intended for the scam. And by that point, the pattern of higher-value cryptocurrency 
payments appeared common for the account.
That said, Im mindful that, on 1 November 2021, Monzo did send Mrs M a message 
explaining it had seen an increase in reports related to fraudulent behaviour on online 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms. It said it was prohibiting cryptocurrency trading on 
Mrs Ms account as a result, and explained  if she continued to use her account for 
cryptocurrency payments  it would give warning to close her account.
Given the risk identified, I think Monzo should have interacted with Mrs M directly or given 
her a more tailored warning about cryptocurrency scams. But, as explained, I dont currently 
have enough to show whether any of the funds sent after that date were intended for the 
scam  meaning I cant fairly direct Monzo to refund them.
Even if Mrs M can provide records showing further payments were sent to G, funded from 
her Monzo account, Im not persuaded intervention by Monzo at this point would reasonably 
have dissuaded her from proceeding.
Mrs M has told us she was very persuaded by the platform, which she had been using for 
several months by this point, as well as the recommendation of her friend. Although Monzo 
could have warned her about the features of cryptocurrency scams, and explained how she 
could look into G further, Im not persuaded she would done so at this point. From her 
perspective, she was already persuaded that G were legitimate.Im also conscious the Monzo payments were being funded from other accounts. For nearly 
all the payments, there was an immediate inward payment made from another account. I 
asked Mrs M to confirm the source of all of these, but her response doesnt fully account for 
the source of all the funds.
This is relevant for a couple of reasons. First of all, given that Mrs M had been making 
payments to G via at least two other bank accounts, it raises the question of why she wasnt 
making the payments directly from the originating accounts. The movement could be an 
indication she was looking to make payments in a way to avoid intervention from the account 
provider. Which makes me less inclined to think she would have been forthcoming about the 
trading she was doing.
Furthermore, Mrs M has confirmed some of these payments were funded by a £35,000 
Bounce Back loan taken out by her limited company. But under the Bounce Back loan 
scheme, those funds were not meant to be used for personal reasons. And so I wouldnt 
consider it fair to expect Monzo to indemnify Mrs M for the money she lost as a result of that.
That is assuming the loss arising from the use of those loan funds is actually Mrs Ms 
personal loss. If the loss was actually incurred by the limited company, that would fall outside 
my jurisdiction to consider. As I can only consider complaints arising from certain types of 
relationships between the business and the complainant  generally a customer relationship. 
Here, Mrs Ms complaint stems from her customer relationship with Monzo, not a customer 
relationship between Monzo and the limited company. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, as I do accept and appreciate that she has been the victim of 
a cruel and sophisticated scam. But my role is to determine whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Monzo liable for her loss. And, for the reasons set out above, Im not 
persuaded it is.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman