DRN-4135658
The complaint
Ms E complains that Santander UK Plc constantly blocks her payments and that they have 
provided poor customer service to her.
What happened
Ms E says that Santanders software consistently and continually blocks payments to 
established existing payees, which means she has to phone them, experience long waits in 
queues, incur additional costs - such as foreign exchange losses and call costs, and be 
disconnected before she is transferred to their fraud team. Ms E has said on one occasion 
she was forced to call them on five consecutive days when they failed to unblock her 
account. Ms E complained to Santander. 
Santander partially upheld Ms Es complaint. They said a bill payment on 7 October 2022 
had been highlighted for security and was declined. Ms E called, and the payment was 
updated and remade for her, however the payment highlighted again and was sent for a 
review. Santander said all payments are subject to banking checks, whether they have been 
made before or not. They credited Ms Es account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill for what 
happened on two occasions (21 September and 17 October 2022). Ms E brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Es complaint. He said although he understood Ms Es 
concerns about her transactions being blocked, he couldnt agree that this was done 
incorrectly as Santander are entitled to block any transactions. He said while this may be 
inconvenient, Santander had acted in line with their terms and conditions to protect 
themselves and their customers.
Ms E asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points, in 
summary, she said Santander are understaffed resulting in lengthy queue times, 
transactions are blocked regardless of the size as they also blocked a £200 payment, she 
commented on the fraud prevention software that Santander uses and how she didnt have 
the same issue with a third party bank she used, and she had been given conflicting 
information why her payments had been blocked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Ms Es complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Ms E that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements, such as blocking transactions or how they remove blocks. It is also 
not within this services remit to tell a business what software they should use, even if their 
competitors have different systems to them, as it is a commercial decision which software 
they choose to use in order for them to fulfil their regulatory requirements. It would be the 
role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Santander to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them from being victims of fraud and scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and 
inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Although Ms E has said that Santander will block even small payments, I would expect 
Santander to have controls in place which would check every single payment, and not just 
large payments  otherwise people would just try and send smaller payments to circumvent 
the security controls.
Ive considered what Ms E has said about payments that she attempted to make were to 
existing payees, but these have still been blocked. But Im not persuaded that this should 
mean that security checks should not take place in these instances. I say this because 
Santander need to satisfy themselves that Ms E is the person who is genuinely making the 
payments. I would still expect Santander to protect Ms Es account, even if there was a 
history of payments being made to existing payees
So I dont find it unreasonable for Santander to have security controls in place to manage 
their obligations and to fulfil their duties to their customers to ensure each payment made is 
genuinely made by their customers themselves and they are not being coerced or scammed 
into making payments. And Im satisfied they have acted in line with their terms and 
conditions here in trying to protect Ms Es account, even though she has been 
inconvenienced by having to confirm to Santander that it was genuinely her making the 
transaction. 
Ive considered that Ms E has said she has had lengthy call waiting times, and this is 
disappointing to hear. At times, depending on fraud or suspected fraud trends, there could 
be an increase of customers who are ringing Santander at the same time, causing longer 
wait times. Ms E has said she has been told different reasons for the block, but it would 
appear as if the call handlers were speculating the reasons why a payment could be 
blocked. I say this because Santander wouldnt disclose how their fraud prevention systems 
work  and nor would they be required to  even to their own staff. I say this because if it 
was public knowledge of how their fraud prevention system worked, then people could try 
and circumvent the system in order to avoid transactions being blocked.
But it appears that on occasion Santander have let Ms E down as she has verified she made 
a payment, only for this to be reprocessed and re-blocked, which required Ms E to verify this 
again. It would be upsetting for her to hear different reasons as to why a payment may be 
blocked, when the reality is the staff would be speculating as to what happened (and that is 
why shes been told different things before as opposed to the same reason each time). So I 
have seen signs of poor customer service here. 
Santander have paid Ms E a total of £100 (2x£50) compensation previously. And Im 
satisfied that this is proportionate for what has happened. This is in line with what I would 
have awarded Ms E had Santander not paid Ms E this compensation. So it follows I dont 
require Santander to do anything further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman