DRN-2588839
The complaint
Mr P complains that a Bank of Scotland Plc error resulted in him not having access to his 
online business banking and subsequently suffering a loss of income.   
 
What happened
Upon securing a COVID bounce-back loan from Bank of Scotland, Mr P says that he was 
going to take up a new export business project abroad. However, soon after, he complained 
that he was unable to access his online banking. 
Bank of Scotland looked into the issue and confirmed that access had been blocked due to a 
lack of activity on the account. Mr P says he completed a new registration for this as was 
requested. However, this was rejected as Bank of Scotland said they didnt hold a signature 
on Mr Ps account and so were unable to verify the request. 
Bank of Scotland say that they believe the signature had been removed from Mr Ps records 
during a system migration. They say that although this wont have been realised at the time, 
it was picked up in 2016 when Mr P completed a variation mandate. However, they say that 
further requests for a signature were not returned or were not completed correctly. 
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that there had been an error in initially removing the 
signature from the account, meaning Mr Ps request to reinstate his online banking was 
rejected. They paid Mr P a total of £700 for the inconvenience this caused. 
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
The investigator thought that although Bank of Scotland had made an error, their payment of 
£700 was sufficient in putting things right for Mr P. It was also noted that access had been 
restored. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. He said that he had lost out significantly as a 
result of him not having access to his online banking between March and September 2020. 
He wants compensation of at least £5,000. As he remains unhappy, its now been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr P that I think the business has done enough to put things 
right here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
Bank of Scotland have said that Mr Ps access to his internet banking was withdrawn due to 
it not being used. They have pointed to part 1.8 of the business internet banking terms and 
conditions which say that if you dont log on to the Internet Banking Service for at least 14 
months, we may remove your details from our database and you will be required to re-
register for Internet Banking.
Bank of Scotland arent able to provide an audit trail leading up to Mr Ps internet banking 
being deregistered on 1 April 2020. They say this is because internet banking records only 
go back 12 months. They have however, shown that there were no faster payments made 
from Mr Ps account for at least 14 months prior to the deregistration. Transfers were done 
through telephone banking. 
When the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as it is here, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in
light of the evidence that is available. In this situation, I find it more likely than not that Mr P 
hadnt used his internet banking for more than 14 months and that Bank of Scotland acted 
fairly and in line with account terms and conditions, when deregistering Mr Ps business 
internet banking.
However, it should have been quite straightforward for Mr P to reinstate this service.      
Bank of Scotland have acknowledged that the new registration request Mr P completed was 
rejected due to a previous bank error. This deleted any customer signature from their 
database, meaning the new request couldnt be verified. This issue was compounded by the 
fact that Mr P was abroad and doesnt seem to have been offered a reasonable solution 
apart from getting someone to forward on the form from his UK address. 
Bank of Scotland say that the service was restored in June 2020. However, Mr P says that 
he wasnt able to use it until he got his new card reader from his UK address in September 
2020. Mr P also says that this time without business internet banking cost him a 
considerable reduction in income of over £5,000. He says this was due to having to transact 
in cash. 
As set out above, Bank of Scotlands mistake meant Mr P didnt have access to online 
banking for a time. I accept this would have been frustrating for him, and inconvenient. But 
my understanding is he could still operate his account using telephone banking, which 
means he could have transacted on the account had he needed to. Nor can I see when he 
had access again in September 2020 his account activity changed in a material way, which 
makes me think internet banking wasnt essential for his business. Because of this, and in 
the absence of any compelling evidence to support (and quantify) Mr Ps alleged losses, I 
cant fairly require Bank of Scotland to pay him the £5,000 hes asked for.
But as Ive said, this matter was frustrating for Mr P, and a clear inconvenience, for at least 
five months. Bank of Scotland have paid him £700 compensation in recognition of this. 
Thats a lot of money and in my view, taking everything into account, its a fair and 
reasonable amount to put things right.  
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr P. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require Bank of Scotland to do anything more to resolve this complaint. My decision ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve Mr Ps dispute with Bank of Scotland  can do for him.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont think that Bank of Scotland plc, should do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman