DRN-1155108
The complaint
Mr H (on behalf of a limited company B) complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
have unfairly declined his claim made under a business legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents and claims handlers. For ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer to Mr H, rather than B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview here. Mr H has the benefit of insurance against certain legal expenses in 
relation to his business, B. This is provided by IPA.
In September 2017 Mr H contacted IPA for legal assistance. He was being pursued by two 
third parties. The particulars of the claim recorded that the third parties believed him to be in 
breach of a covenant in relation to his business premises. The claimant was seeking 
damages. 
IPA looked into the claim and initially asked for further information and evidence from Mr H. 
They later went on to decline the claim as they said no insured event had taken place. They 
pointed out that the property protection and bodily injury section of the policy only provides 
cover for trespass and/or nuisance or property damage. And as this didnt apply to Mr Hs 
claim, they said no cover was available.
Mr H made further representations which included saying he thought he was covered under 
the contract disputes section of his policy. So IPA referred the matter to a firm of solicitors 
M and asked for their advice. 
A solicitor from M concluded that the dispute in question wasnt a contract dispute within the 
terms of the policy. He also agreed with what IPA had already said in relation to the property 
protection part of the policy.  
Based on this legal opinion IPA maintained their position of declining the claim. They pointed 
out that if Mr H provided his own legal opinion that disagreed with M, then they would 
consider the matter again and may instruct a barrister. Mr H was unhappy with this and 
complained. IPA considered the complaint but didnt uphold it so the matter was referred to 
our service. Mr H also added that he thought his policy had been mis-sold if it didnt cover 
him. 
One of our investigators sympathised with Mr H, but didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. She concluded that IPA had acted fairly in the circumstances, and that a complaint 
about the sale of the policy would need to be addressed to the business that sold it, which 
wasnt IPA. Mr H remained dissatisfied and has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to make a judgement or finding in relation to Mr Hs legal dispute. And having 
seen details of this I have sympathy with the difficult position he and B are in and the impact 
this has had on him and his family. But my role is to consider if IPA have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. I think they have and Ill explain why.
No insurance policy will include cover against every conceivable set of circumstances. There 
are always terms, conditions and exclusions to be considered. 
Mr Hs policy says: We will negotiate for the policyholders legal rights in any civil action 
relating to material property which is owned by, or the responsibility of the policyholder, 
following: 1) any event which causes or could cause physical damage to such material 
property; or 2) any nuisance or trespass.
I dont think IPA were being unreasonable when deciding that this didnt apply to the 
circumstances of Mr Hs claim. Ive read the claim form against him and the legal action 
wasnt in relation to physical damage to property, nor did it relate to any nuisance or 
trespass. 
Mr H said that he thinks he should be covered under the contract dispute section of the 
policy. He says that a covenant is a form of contract and as such he should be covered. The 
contract disputes section of the policy says: We will negotiate for the policyholders legal 
rights in a contractual dispute arising from that agreement or alleged agreement which has 
been entered into by or on behalf of the policyholder for the purchase, hire, sale or provision 
of goods or services.
Terms like the two quoted above are common in this type of insurance and I dont think they 
are inherently unfair. IPA themselves arent legal experts. And so I think it is fair for them to 
rely on suitably qualified legal advice (unless it is obviously wrong) when making decisions 
about a claim. In this case they asked a solicitor from M for their opinion as to whether or not 
the claim against Mr H was a breach of contract. The solicitor said that in his opinion, the 
claimant hadnt supplied Mr H with goods or services and ultimately he said that the matter 
was a breach of covenant, not a breach of contract.
I can see that the solicitor who wrote that opinion was a Senior Associate which is a position 
I would consider to be suitably qualified. And as Ive already set out, I think it was 
reasonable for IPA to consider that advice and to rely on it when deciding that there wasnt 
cover available under the policy. The policy term requires that a contract dispute must relate 
to hire, sale or provision of goods or services. And the solicitor had concluded that wasnt the 
case. 
I also agree with our investigator that a complaint about the sale of the policy needs to be 
addressed to the business that sold the policy. So it would be inappropriate for me to 
comment further on that point here. 
Overall, I dont think IPA have acted outside the terms of the policy or unfairly when declining 
Mr Hs claim. So I wont be telling them they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman