DRN-2335741
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) 
delayed the processing of funds to his account resulting in him missing out on investment 
opportunities which led to a financial disadvantage.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M asked for funds held within an ISA with another provider to be 
transferred to his Hargreaves ISA. The instruction was due to complete on 17 April 2020. Mr 
M contacted Hargreaves on 15 April to make sure that his funds would be transferred on 17 
April.
The funds did not arrive in Mr Ms ISA account on 17 April and he contacted both his 
previous ISA provider and Hargreaves on 27 April to ask what happened to the payment. His 
previous ISA provider told him that the funds were sent on 17 April and should be with 
Hargreaves. Hargreaves told Mr M that they could not find the funds to apply to his account.
Hargreaves applied the funds to Mr Ms ISA on 27 April and have said that the delay was an 
error on their part. They have apologised to Mr M and offered £200 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset that their error caused. Mr M rejected this offer and said that if the funds 
had been credited to his account on 17 April, he would have purchased specific stocks. As a 
result of the delays, Mr M said that he has suffered a financial loss as the prices have now 
risen in value.
Hargreaves investigated Mr Ms complaint but did not agree. They said that Mr M had only 
indicated that he wished to purchase specific stocks on 27 April when the funds were in his 
account. Mr M had not initially said that he had urgent investments that he wished to make 
and that although it was regrettable that the transfer of his funds was delayed, they could not 
compensate him for any perceived loss.
Unhappy with Hargreaves response, Mr M referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator did not think that Hargreaves had 
done anything wrong in refusing to compensate Mr M for his perceived loss and did not 
uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont be upholding his complaint and will explain why.
The delay in processing Mr Ms funds are acknowledged by Hargreaves and they have said 
that it was their error. Hargreaves have offered Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
and I think that this is a fair and reasonable amount and in line with what the service would 
offer. Im not going to suggest that Hargreaves do anything else.
Mr Ms complaint is that he lost out on investment opportunities to buy and sell specific 
stocks when his funds should have been available.
In assessing a complaint like this, I need to look at what evidence is available that would 
suggest the course of action that Mr M said he would take had the funds been available on 
17 April. I have reviewed the file and submissions from both Mr M and Hargreaves.
Mr M contacted Hargreaves on 15 April to ask if the transfer would go ahead on 17 April. Mr 
M says that he did this as he wished to invest into Imperial Brands. I can see that Mr M did 
contact Hargreaves on this date, but I cant see any evidence that he discussed wishing to 
invest. 
I have also reviewed the transfer application instruction on the transfer from his previous ISA 
provider and this does not include any investment instructions.
In order to compensate for any loss of investment opportunity there needs to be clear 
evidence of an intention to trade  I cant see that Mr M provided any clear intention to trade 
when he called on 15 April or on his transfer application.
Mr M called again on 27 April and said that he had wished to trade and had missed out on 
these investment opportunities. Hargreaves replied that a purchase was made following the 
processing of funds on Mr Ms account but that it related to another investment and was 
made 10 days after the funds were available. Mr M has said that this transaction had nothing 
to do with his initial investment thoughts and is immaterial.
I note Mr Ms comments and sympathise that as his funds were not available to invest on 17 
April he pursued other investment strategies, but I dont believe that Mr M has provided 
enough evidence to suggest that he wished to make specific trades immediately upon 
receipt of the funds arriving in his ISA account. 
I acknowledge that this is said with hindsight and had Mr M known this, he may have pushed 
Hargreaves harder into investigating his ISA transfer and the funds may have been found 
and applied that day but Mr M did not contact Hargreaves for a further 10 days to ask about 
his funds. I cant agree with Mr M that there was urgency on his part to make these trades.
I know that Mr M feels strongly about the delays caused by Hargreaves and the reasons that 
he was given as to why his funds were not applied. I think that Hargreaves have attempted 
to resolve this part of the complaint and have offered compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. This offer is still available to Mr M and he should contact Hargreaves if he wishes to 
accept this offer.
About Mr Ms perceived investment losses, I have not found enough evidence that Mr M 
provided Hargreaves with a clear indication that he wished to purchase investments 
immediately upon the funds arriving in his account. Without this, I cant agree that 
Hargreaves have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman