DRN-3388425
The complaint
N, a company, complains that Revolut Ltd blocked payments into his account and returned 
the money to source. 
What happened
N had an account with Revolut, which it opened in March 2021. N says it planned to use the 
account to receive payments from investors in exchange for shares in the company. 
Between 30 March and 1 April, N was sent 7 payments ranging from £10,000 to £100,000.
Revolut wanted more information about these transactions. It asked for various information 
on 31 March and 1 April. N provided some information. But on 6 April Revolut told N it would 
close the account. It returned three of the payments  one for £100,000 and two of £50,000 
 to the senders of the funds. Meanwhile, it placed restrictions on the account so that N 
could only withdraw the remaining funds, which were around £50,000. In the process of 
doing this, Revolut sent N a message saying the restrictions had in fact been lifted. 
Dissatisfied with all of this, N complained to Revolut and then referred the complaint to us. 
Revolut offered £50 for the incorrect information about the account.
Our investigator looked at all of this. He felt Revolut could have been clearer about what it 
wanted. He recommended that Revolut pay N £450 for the inconvenience caused.
Revolut agreed with the investigator. N disagrees. It thinks £450 is insufficient. It says that 
neither Revolut nor our investigator understands Revoluts obligations under the relevant 
money laundering regulations,. And it says that because of Revoluts actions, it lost out on 
an investment of US$25,000  and also needed to get another company in the group to hold 
Ns funds on trust.
I issued my provisional findings on 24 August 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
Financial businesses, like Revolut, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may 
need to review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to 
block or restrict any payments.
I was satisfied that Revolut was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
requirements when it reviewed Ns account. The account was newly opened and had 
received a number of large payments ranging from £10,000 to £100,000. In the 
circumstances, I didnt find it surprising that Revolut wanted more information about 
the source of the funds.
The terms and conditions of the account said Revolut could close and suspend 
accounts immediately in some circumstances, including where someone hadnt given 
it information it needed or where it was otherwise required to do so by law.
Revolut asked N if it could provide shareholders agreements in connection with the 
shares. In response, N explained that, under the relevant regulations, it couldnt issue 
signed share certificates until the money had been transferred into the account  and 
so as the money hadnt been placed into the account it couldnt issue the certificates. 
N said this puts us in a very difficult situation as in order to provide you with these 
signed certificates we would be in breach of HMRC regulations and so would forfeit 
the investments.
I could see why Revolut found this response unsatisfactory. For one thing, Revolut 
never asked N for share certificates. I think it was plain that Revolut wanted to see 
some form of written agreement showing that the investors had agreed to subscribe 
to shares in N.
It also appeared that N anticipated that its shareholders would sign an agreement at 
or around the same time that they paid over the funds. Id seen an email from Ns tax 
advisors saying that once the investor agreements are signed and funds received N 
could issue the shares and file the necessary compliance forms.
Wed asked N for further explanation about to show what had happened, but N hadnt 
provided this. Wed also asked N for any further details about the issue of the shares, 
but N hadnt supplied this.
Revolut has asked N for information which N hadnt been able to provide. It appeared 
that N expected investors to sign investors agreements, but N claimed that providing 
this information was illegal. As such, I didnt think Revoluts decision to close the 
account was unreasonable  and nor did I think it was unfair for Revolut to have 
blocked and returned the relevant payments.
I then considered whether Revolut had treated N unfairly in any other respect.
I thought it was reasonable for Revolut to review the account and restrict it while the 
review took place. So while I didnt doubt this was inconvenient, this isnt something I 
can award compensation for. The review itself was carried out without undue delay: 
Revolut asked for the information on 31 March and had notified N that it planned to 
close the account by 5 April. Given that the intervening period included the long 
Easter weekend, I cant say that Revolut could have completed this any quicker.
I noted that N says this caused it some reputational damage and embarrassment, as 
it has had to explain to investors that it is using another companys bank account and 
had to account for these funds separately. It says it lost out on further investments it 
had lined up  including an investment of US$25,000. But as Id concluded Revolut 
acted fairly in restricting and closing the account, this wasnt something I could award 
compensation for.
I also noted that N was a limited company  so although I can award compensation 
for the impact Revoluts actions had on N, this doesnt include any separate impact it 
had on the directors or the shareholders. Ns director and shareholders also felt 
strongly that Revoluts actions have delayed what it sees as important work  and 
that Revolut was trying to cover up failings in its own processes. I said nothing Id 
seen suggests Revolut was trying to cover up anything. But any compensation I 
award isnt to punish the business but to reflect the impact its actions had on N.
Finally, I noted that Revolut, while it was removing restrictions on the account to 
allow N to withdraw the funds, sent N an email saying it had lifted the restrictions on 
the account. Revolut had in fact already told N that the account should be closed. 
Revolut had offered to pay N £50 in respect of this. Given what Id said about N being 
a limited company, I thought this was likely to be a fair resolution to this part of the 
complaint.
I said Id consider any further comments I received by 21 September 2022.
Revolut agreed with my provisional decision. N didnt agree for a number of reasons. In 
particular, it said Id misunderstood the situation with the shares and documentation. But it also says its main concern was really with Revoluts lack of communication and its inability to 
discuss the issue with them. When they tried to raise these issues with Revolut in the chat, 
they found that that Revoluts agents kept repeating their request. N says that it was in a 
position to provide alternative information, including evidence from its legal advisers. It notes 
that when it later opened a bank account elsewhere it didnt face these issues. N has also 
provided additional information about the loss of investment and the impact this had on its 
work.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points N has raised in response to my provisional findings. But 
they dont change my overall conclusions. Ill explain why.
For the same reasons I gave in my provisional findings, Im satisfied that Revolut was 
entitled to block and review the payments into the account. In doing so, Im satisfied Revolut 
was acting in line with its legal and regulatory requirements. N has explained that, by the 
standards of the sector in which it operated, these payments werent that large or unusual. 
Nonetheless, these payments ranged from £10,000 to £100,000, and so its unsurprising that 
Revolut wanted further information about these.
N has now provided more information about why it couldnt provide the information Revolut 
requested. N has told us that its investment round sought funds from smaller investors 
known personally to the company, and so did not involve the same level of formality as 
would have been the case for venture capital or larger investors. N says it would receive the 
investment first, which would then be followed by signatures from both parties on the share 
issue agreement. And it says that had Revolut asked, it could have provided details from its 
legal representatives explaining all this.
Given what N has told us, I can see why it had difficulties providing the paperwork Revolut 
asked for. There still remains a dispute about precisely what Revolut wanted: N states that 
Revolut asked for share certificates. N says it couldnt issue the share certificates until they 
were fully paid up  this is both because the shareholder would then otherwise remain liable 
to the company for the value of the shares, and because of the rules that applied to the SEIS 
and EIS tax schemes. Ive looked further at this. Revoluts records say it initially asked:
Please provide us with some clarification and supporting documentation that can 
help us understand your activity.
It then asked:
Can you please provide invoices/agreement related to the mentioned transactions?
Revolut then asked N to provide an agreement with one of the investors. Finally, it asked N 
to provide a signed shareholders agreement.
It was in response to this last question that Ns director explained that N couldnt do this. He 
wrote: Before we can issue any signed share certificates we must show that the money has 
been transferred into the account.Based on what Ive seen it appears it was N, not Revolut, who first raised the issue of share 
certificates  though based on what N has said, it seems N didnt expect the share issue 
agreements to be signed until after it had received the funds either.
After completing the review Revolut decided to close Ns account. For the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision, Im not persuaded this was unreasonable, given Ns inability to 
provide requested documentation. I can see why Ns director and shareholder found the 
communication from Revolut frustrating. I fully appreciate the difficulties N has providing this 
information. But I cant say it was wrong for Revolut to have asked for this information  and 
given N said it couldnt provide this, I cant say Revolut was wrong to then close Ns account 
or return some of the funds to its sender. Im satisfied in doing so Revolut was acting in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and its legal and regulatory obligations.
Ive gone on to consider whether Revolut has treated N unfairly in any other way.
One of Ns shareholders has told us hes concerned in particular by the poor 
communications from Revolut. He feels all of this could have been sorted out if Revolut had 
been willing to discuss matters. He says that N has subsequently applied for banking 
facilities with a mainstream bank, which was willing to work with N to agree acceptable 
alternative documents.
But while I appreciate that N feels strongly that Revolut should communicate differently, 
Revoluts main method of communication is online. And thats a method of communication N 
agreed to when it opened the account with Revolut.
Revolut has offered to pay N £50 as some of the information it sent N was misleading. Ive 
thought about whether Revolut needs to do more.
Ive concluded that Revolut acted fairly in reviewing, blocking and then closing Ns account. I 
dont doubt this caused inconvenience. But this inconvenience was inevitable, and its not 
something I will award compensation for. N also says that a potential investor withdrew a 
$25,000 investment as they were unable to make the payments into Ns account. But thats a 
matter between N and its investor  its not something I can fairly hold Revolut responsible 
for.
Weve heard Ns shareholder, who has explained in more detail the impact he says Revoluts 
actions have had. But much of what hes described relates to the frustration and 
inconvenience Revoluts actions caused him personally.
As I explained in my provisional decision, as N is a limited company it cannot experience 
pain, suffering or distress. I can consider the impact Revoluts actions had on N directly, but I 
cannot award compensation for the impact its actions had on Ns shareholders or directors 
personally.
But Revolut has offered to pay N £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused by the incorrect 
information it gave. I recognise the information Revolut sent N about removing restrictions 
from the account was unhelpful  it said it had removed restrictions from the account when it 
had in fact decided to close the account. Given what Ive said above, I cant see that has 
necessarily affected Ns position  the account would have closed anyway. Nonetheless, as 
Revolut accepts that something has gone wrong and has made an offer to put things right, I 
award amount this in my decision. I make no further award.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Revolut Ltd should pay N the £50 it has offered if it hasnt already. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman