DRN-3368435
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice provided by AJH Financial Services Ltd 
(AJH) in February 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both the Representative and AJH. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr M, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr M to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Ms safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 12 years and 7 months qualifying service between August 2004 and 
March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £7,244.71 The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£10,095 or a reduced pension of £6,984 plus tax-free cash of £46,560. And at 60 it 
was £7,771 or a reduced pension of £5,599 plus tax-free cash of £37,329;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £161,591.43. 
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He decided that he wanted to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits away to a new private arrangement. He contacted AJH to obtain 
advice and to facilitate the transaction and spoke with one of its advisers. On                                   
12 January 2018, a fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed 
which recorded the following information about Mr M:
He was aged 52 and his wife aged 47. They were both in good health and had two 
financially dependent children aged 15 and 19;
He was employed by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about £35,000. He 
wanted to retire no later than age 60 and receive gross annual retirement income of 
£24,000. His wife was employed on a part-time basis by an insurance company and 
paid a gross annual income of about £13,000. She too wanted to retire at 60 and 
receive gross annual retirement income of £12,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £135,000. They didnt have any 
cash savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £70,000 on the marital home 
which was due to be repaid in 2030 when Mr M would be aged 61. They also had 
credit card debt of about £20,000;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                   
March 2017. The value in January 2018 was about £5,000. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his annual salary, which was about £5,600 
in monetary terms. This would increase in line with changes to his salary. His State 
pension age was 67;
After paying household bills they had about £1,500 surplus disposable income 
available every month;He was an inexperienced investor. His risk profile was determined to be 5 on a scale 
of 1 to 10, where 1 was lowest risk and 10 highest risk. The rating of 5 was described 
by AJH as Medium risk.
The fact-find document recorded notes from subsequent meetings between the adviser and 
Mr M. On 19 January 2018, it was noted the adviser made Mr M aware that the transfer 
analysis had been completed and which indicated he wouldnt receive his target annual 
income of £24,000 in retirement and that the critical yield of 9.6% was unlikely to be 
achieved. And that, based on this, the adviser couldnt recommend a pension transfer. They 
met again on 23 January 2018, where it was noted that Mr M understood the implications of 
the critical yield not being achieved but still wished to transfer regardless as he was 
concerned about the inflexibility of the benefits payable by the BSPS benefits and the 
provision his wife would receive. 
As a result, he signed a letter which he and the adviser wrote together on the day. That 
letter stated:
I have received advice from [AJH adviser] not to transfer the funds because of the 
critical yields. However I wish to proceed with the transfer as I am concerned about 
the final salary scheme going to the Pension Protection Fund and also if I transfer I 
will have more control of my monies in the future. I have agreed with [AJH adviser] to 
move my monies to [PPP provider].
After that letter had been drafted and signed by Mr M, AJH issued its suitability report on                
23 February 2018 recommending that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS to a PPP and invest it in a portfolio of funds to align with his Medium risk profile. 
The suitability report stated Mr Ms objectives attached to his safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS, which can be summarised as follows:
Flexibility and early retirement: His primary objective was the ability to draw 
benefits flexibly so that he could choose when and how to take these. He wanted to 
retire no later than age 60 and receive gross annual retirement income of £24,000 
(he was told by AJH that the target income was unlikely achievable based on the 
value of his pension arrangements);
Control: He was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and the 
prospect that the value of his benefits could be reduced in the future following a 
transfer to either the BSPS2 or PPF. As a result, he wanted to break ties with the 
BSPS and transfer away to remove the risk of reduced benefits; and
Death benefits: He wanted to maximise the level of death benefits payable to his 
wife and children in the event of his early death and to provide them with flexibility in 
how they would be paid.
AJH confirmed in its suitability report the reasons why it recommended a transfer to a PPP in 
favour of the PPF and BSPS2 options for the following reasons:
The TVAS Cash Flow Modeller forecasts that, when taking your benefits at age 60 
based on the same income offered from your existing BSPS after Tax Free Cash, 
your fund will meet your life expectancy on a growth rate of 3.4% and exceed it on a 
high growth rate of 6.5%.
You are concerned over the stability and ongoing changes with the British Steel 
Pension Scheme and have lost trust in the British Steel Pension Scheme.You would prefer the increased flexibility in relation to when and how your benefits 
are accessed, with the option to take the maximum Tax Free Cash available.
You are able to access your benefits early without the need to consider early penalty 
factors. 
You are able to access up to the maximum 25% Tax Free Cash element of your 
pension benefits without taking any income.
When taking benefits there are no restrictions on the amount of money you can 
withdraw at any one time.
You can invest in a wide range of investment funds that have the potential for growth 
over the longer term
The death benefits are completely tax free before the age of 75 when paid to your 
beneficiaries and only taxable at their marginal rate of tax after 75.
You are able to vary the underlying funds and risks, including the use of a cash fund 
within the pension to reflect any changes in your personal circumstances. You dont 
want the inconvenience and cost associated with moving your pension provision from 
one provider to another every time you move between different stages in your 
retirement plan. The [PPP] caters for most aspects of retirement planning needs, 
from tax-efficient savings in the Personal Pension option through to provision of your 
income in retirement through the Drawdown option. 
Mr M accepted the recommendation. The pension transfer was completed in                           
March 2018. The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in AJHs suitability 
report. These charges were to be deducted from Mr Ms PPP, summarised as follows:
Initial charge
£4,000  initial adviser charge payable to AJH
Ongoing annual charges based on the PPP fund value
0.50% adviser charge  to provide ongoing advice payable to AJH 
0.45% fund charge  payable to the PPP provider
This complaint
In 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr M, complained to AJH about the suitability of its 
pension transfer advice. AJH didnt uphold this complaint and so the Representative referred 
the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that AJHs recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best 
interests and was therefore unsuitable. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that AJH carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the 
basis that Mr M opted for BSPS2 (rather than the PPF or PPP options) and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that AJH pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation which led 
to the loss of valuable pension income guarantees.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr M, responded and stated that it agreed with the uphold 
outcome. It agreed that the BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes and on the 
basis that Mr M would likely take benefits at age 65.
AJH didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided substantial comments in 
response. In summary, it stated that it had complied with and considered the FCAs rules 
and guidance, including making Mr M aware of the risks associated with the transaction. It 
was satisfied it had taken reasonable steps to demonstrate suitability and that the transfer 
was in his best interests taking into account his objectives and wider financial situation. It 
stated that before engaging its services, Mr M had already made his mind up about 
transferring and had also signed a letter on 23 January 2018 confirming he wanted to 
proceed in spite of the advisers concerns regarding the achievability of the critical yield. And 
so it believed he wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice. It concluded that the 
transfer to the PPP was the only option available to Mr M that wouldve met his needs and 
objectives.
Our investigator considered the additional comments provided by AJH but wasnt persuaded 
to change his opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, our investigator stated that this 
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the Representative to 
confirm with Mr M that in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred 
redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated guidance expected to be 
implemented in early 2023. The investigator told the Representative that if we didnt receive 
an answer that wed assume Mr M would prefer redress on the current methodology set out 
in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final decision, the Representative didnt confirm 
which option Mr M preferred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by AJH and the Representative on behalf of Mr M. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Was Mr M an insistent client?
I firstly want to deal with the handwritten letter dated 23 January 2018 and signed by Mr M. 
The letter states that AJH had advised Mr M not to transfer based on the critical yields alone 
(covered in more detail below) but that he still wanted to proceed against its advice. 
Although not explicitly stated by AJH at the time of its advice or in its response to this complaint, I think the letter was drafted to portray Mr M as an insistent client  I cannot see 
any other reason why it was drafted.
An insistent client is where a client wishes to take a different course of action from the one 
recommended and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. 
The FCA doesnt have a rule that prevents regulated businesses transacting business 
against its advice if the client insists. However, the FCA has previously expressed its 
concerns and expectations about how businesses should execute insistent client business  
it did this in February 2016 when it published a guidance note on insistent clients. In that 
note, the FCA listed its concerns as follows:
We have seen cases where: 
there was an inadequate assessment of the other options that would meet the 
clients objectives
excessive numbers of insistent clients resulted from the advisers advice not 
being sufficiently clear
the risks of the clients preferred course of action were not clearly explained
it was a 'papering exercise', for example the adviser had processed the case 
on an insistent client basis but this clearly did not reflect what had happened 
in practice
the adviser advised the client not to transfer out of the DB scheme (although 
the client insisted) but then recommended a product that was not suitable 
(with reference to the outcome and assessment of the information gathered 
about the member)
Due to these concerns, the FCA set out three key steps it expected regulated businesses to 
follow: 
You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice 
must be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process. 
You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice. 
In meeting these steps, the FCA clarified that the business must obtain the necessary 
information about its client and their investment objectives, financial situation, and 
knowledge and experience to enable it to make a suitable personal recommendation, in line 
with COBS 9.2. In addition, the business must also act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
the best interests of their client, in line with COBS 2.1.1R. The business must also 
communicate with the client (for example in the suitability report) in a way thats clear, fair 
and not misleading, in line with Principle 7 and COBS 4.2.1R.Taking into account the FCAs expectations, Im not satisfied that Mr M could be categorised 
as an insistent client. This is because theres no evidence that, in line with its normal advice 
process, AJH provided a personal recommendation and suitability report to Mr M in which it 
advised him not to transfer. And theres no details of any assessment it carried out of other 
options that could meet his objectives. Rather, according to the fact find document, the 
advice not to transfer was given during a verbal discussion. Therefore, its unclear to me 
what information or analysis AJH presented to Mr M during their discussions  and so I 
cannot be certain that Mr M was in possession of the necessary information to enable him to 
make an informed decision when he decided to act against AJHs advice.
In addition, in the fact find document, the adviser noted with reference to Mr M and the letter, 
He signed a letter which we wrote together on the day [my emphasis]. In my view, an 
insistent client letter should be written by the client in their own time and words. Given that 
AJHs adviser helped Mr M write the letter, I cannot be certain that what is stated accurately 
reflected Mr Ms own thoughts. I think that the FCA would be concerned such a letter had 
been drafted with the assistance of the adviser who apparently told its client not to transfer.
In summary, Ive not persuaded that the transaction was carried out on an insistent client 
basis in line with the FCAs expectations. In this case, despite documenting in the fact-find 
document its reservations about the suitability of the pension transfer, AJH nevertheless 
advised Mr M to transfer in its suitability report dated 23 February 2018. Ive therefore gone 
on to consider the suitability of its second recommendation in which it advised Mr M to 
relinquish his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and transfer to a PPP. My findings are set 
out below.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
AJH was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation to 
Mr M. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, AJH was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr M. The suitability rules 
and guidance that applied when AJH provided its recommendation to Mr M were set out in 
COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and so theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. 
To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the 
business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. 
Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory 
business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific rules and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Ms case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail clientto transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of AJHs recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance as set out above.
Mr Ms situationThe situation at the time AJH advised Mr M wasnt normal because the existing DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS, was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr M. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr M had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, AJH.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr M to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr M, the PPF 
would provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65 (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date when needs could be determined with
greater accuracy than at age 52  the PPF didnt offer these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr M still had the option to retain guaranteed 
pension income in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view 
Mr M wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF based on what was 
known at that time including the uncertainty concerning whether he would, in fact, be able to 
retire earlier than 65.
Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair and reasonable opinion that AJH 
shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was suitable for Mr M and to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests.
AJHs advice to Mr M
In responding to this complaint, AJH stated that before engaging its services, Mr M had 
already made his mind up about transferring and it was always his intention to do this. And 
so it believed he wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice. Notwithstanding this 
point, it stated that, when advising Mr M, it had complied with and considered the FCAs 
rules and guidance including making him aware of the risks associated with the transaction. 
This included making him aware that, in its view, the critical yield figure attached to the 
proposed transfer was unlikely to be achieved meaning, from an economic point of view, 
hed be worse off  Ive covered this in more detail below. But it nevertheless advised him to 
transfer to achieve his objectives for flexibility, control, and to leave a legacy for his family on 
death. 
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr M. And that his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. Due to the changes happening 
to the BSPS, he was forced to make a decision. Its my view that he was relying on AJH to 
provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all the information 
available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions 
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or DB pension scheme but, as the 
professional party, AJH was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
In my view, disclosure of risks isnt the same as suitability. In other words, just because AJH 
told Mr M that the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved and that he could be worse off 
doesnt absolve it from any responsibility for the suitability of the transaction. In my view, 
financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action 
a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable 
for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has the option not to facilitate the 
transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time AJH advised Mr M. This required it to carry out a transfer 
value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical 
yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, after 
charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on 
the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity 
at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the 
alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension 
payable by the DB pension scheme.
AJH calculated the following critical yield figures:
Scheme At age 60 based
on a full pensionAt age 60 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based
on a full pensionAt age 65 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 9.1% 7.7% 7.3% 6.4%
PPF 8.7% 7.9% 6.5% 5.9%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time AJH 
advised Mr M that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower 
than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell somewhere in 
between the figures above.
AJHs recommendation to Mr M was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rates which I'm 
able to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.3% 
based on Mr M taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65 and 3.9% based on 
him taking benefits at age 60 in line with his early retirement objective. Furthermore, the 
FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per 
year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. In my view, the discount rate and FCA projection rates when compared to the critical yield 
figures imply that Mr M wouldve needed to accept a high-risk investment approach to 
provide the potential for the sort of investment returns required to match the critical yield 
figures noted above. But that would only come with accepting the risk of significant 
investment loss. This is because the relationship between risk and reward is closely related. 
I note that Mr M was recorded as having a Medium risk profile. The evidence Ive seen 
indicates that he had very limited investment knowledge and experience before this pension 
transfer. At the time of AJHs advice, he didnt have any savings or investments other than 
the DC pension plan he had recently joined through his employment with Tata Steel. Theres 
no evidence that Mr M had experience of investing significant sums of money. 
Given the critical yield figures applicable in this case, I think that there was limited scope for 
the PPP to provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let alone exceed them. 
And it seems that AJH agrees because in its suitability report, when expressing its view on 
the critical yields, it stated, You have also hand written a letter to confirm that you are aware 
that my advice is not to transfer based on these Critical Yield figures, as I believe they are 
unachievable considering your personal objectives.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this, taking into account Mr Ms objectives 
regarding flexibility and early retirement, control and death benefits.
Flexibility and early retirement objective
It was recorded that Mr M wanted to retire no later than age 60. In his first meeting with AJH 
he stated that he wanted to receive gross annual retirement income of £24,000. AJH later 
informed him that figure was unrealistic based on the then value of his pension 
arrangements. 
The value of Mr Ms safeguarded benefits, representing 12 years and 7 months pensionable 
service, was the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. So it seems to me 
that when the time came to retire that hed be heavily reliant on these benefits to support his 
standard of living in retirement. The evidence indicates that when he retired that hed likely 
require a steady, secure income stream for the rest of his life from these benefits. The BSPS 
offered the option of commuting some of his pension income in exchange for a lump sum to 
meet any capital requirements.
In its suitability report, AJH recorded that it recommended the pension transfer to a PPP to 
enable Mr M to flexibly access his safeguarded benefits early. I think its clear that Mr M was 
attracted to a flexible arrangement. But Im not convinced, based on the evidence provided, 
that he had a genuine need to access his safeguarded benefits flexibly with varying levels of 
income and lump sums during retirement. 
A key point here is that Mr M couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the 
earliest. So I dont think there was any need to transfer his safeguarded benefits at age 52, 
especially given the high critical yield figures attached to the transaction.
Mr M was about eight years away from his target of retiring at age 60. While I dont doubt he 
wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit he wanted, plans can change over 
such a long period of time. It was recorded that he didnt have any savings or investments 
other than the value of his pension arrangements so his ability to retire at age 60 would depend entirely on the income produced by his safeguarded benefits and DC pension 
savings.
AJH portrayed the PPP option in the suitability report as allowing for early retirement without 
the penalties which would be applied to the PPF or BSPS2 options. The reality was of 
course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier at age 60 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was explained to Mr M so 
that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would likely lead to 
reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65. 
So, given the timeframe of eight years, I think its fair to say that in 2018 it was uncertain 
what Mr Ms financial situation might look like in the future and whether he could, in fact, 
retire no later than age 60.
But if I assume it was a realistic objective that Mr M could retire at 60, I make the following 
observations.
I note that Mr M had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme since 
March 2017. The value in January 2018 was about £5,000. He and his employer were, in 
total, contributing 16% of his gross annual salary of about £35,000 into the DC pension plan, 
which was about £5,600 in monetary terms. This would increase in line with increases in his 
salary. In the suitability report it stated Mr M, will remain in this Scheme until your retirement 
making personal contributions and receiving employer contributions. So I think its fair to say 
that Mr M would remain a member of the DC pension scheme until such time as he could 
afford to retire, whenever that would be. And in the event Mr M left that employment, I think 
its likely that hed find alternative employment, albeit perhaps outside the steel industry, and, 
with the legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and 
pay a minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. 
Therefore, I think its fair to say that over the eight year period to age 60, its likely that Mr M 
would build up significant DC pension savings  the contributions alone over that eight year 
period would be about £45,000, ignoring any investment growth and increased level of 
contributions linked to changes to his salary.
So if Mr M did have a genuine need for flexible benefits no later than age 60, it seems that 
this this couldve been met in the first instance by using his DC pension savings. This course 
of action wouldve enabled Mr M to delay accessing his safeguarded benefits in the first 
instance, meaning the early retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at age 60. This would 
then be followed by the full state pension at 67. So, from 65 onwards, most of Mr Ms core 
retirement income need couldve been met by guaranteed and escalating pensions which 
wouldve offered some inflation protection unlike the recommended PPP. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr M. But I dont 
think he needed to take on these risks at that time for the reasons explained above.
The course of action recommended by AJH led to Mr M concentrating his retirement benefits 
on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on investment 
performance. The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above may have enabled  
Mr M to achieve his early retirement objective but with significantly less risk. I havent seen 
evidence that AJH adequately considered and discounted this alternative course of action at 
the time. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility 
wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr M to relinquish valuable benefit 
guarantees at that time. In conclusion, while I understand Mr Ms reasons and motivations for flexible benefits and 
early retirement, I dont think AJH clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to 
relinquish his safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve future flexibility. I simply dont 
agree the perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2. 
Control objective
Given the level of uncertainty surrounding the BSPS at the time, I can understand that Mr M 
was concerned about the financial security of his safeguarded benefits and so wanted to 
have control over these by transferring them away to a PPP. 
The suitability report included a list of reasons why a pension transfer might be suitable  the 
list included, Concerns over Scheme Solvency which was followed by an explanation about 
the PPF.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr M could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of AJHs recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained robust 
with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. So I dont think there wasnt any reason at 
that time to question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had AJH advised Mr M to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 52. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr M had about 
the PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-
term DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the 
future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, 
similarly to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP 
before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate 
concern about options disappearing for Mr M or that there was an urgency to transfer to a 
PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr M was reliant on AJH to 
provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best 
interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr M the features, risks 
and benefits of those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr M was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on AJH to provide 
expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. The suitability report doesnt deal 
with Mr Ms concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought a transfer to the PPF was an 
outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view that a transfer to a PPP was 
the best course of action.In summary, I think that AJH failed to adequately allay Mr Ms misapprehensions and that he 
therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the BSPS2 and PPF.
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr M could draw any benefits from 
55 onwards, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at 
least 3 years.
But Mr M was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Ms safeguarded benefits would represent the backbone of his retirement 
provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet his 
income and lump sum needs from age 60 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr M to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then 
life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him 
to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr M had disposable income 
available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to 
achieve the death lump sum objective. In the suitability report reference was made to the 
possibility of obtaining life cover, as follows:
As you are concerned about the death benefits from the Scheme, I have also 
researched a Whole of Life Protection policy for you, on the open market via a 
system known as Synaptics. My research detailed quotes, for example from Vitality 
Life providing a sum assured of £161,591 for a monthly premium of £51.02 (prior to 
any medical underwriting). However, you are more concerned with the actual loss of 
monies from the pension fund on death rather than being concerned with affecting a 
life assurance policy to cover this.
 
I cannot see evidence that AJH adequately quantified Mr Ms death lump sum need, over 
what term or how this might change over time. Rather, it appears AJH assumed Mr M 
required life cover that matched the transfer value. That level of cover may have been 
incorrect. Furthermore, it appears AJH assumed that Mr M required cover for the rest of his 
life. Again, this may have not been necessary. Using a whole of life policy may have led to 
Mr M being charged for benefits or longer term life cover that he might not have needed. In 
my view, a decreasing term assurance policy may have been more appropriate for 
comparative purposes since it more closely matches the shape of a decreasing pension fund 
value once accessed. And decreasing term assurance is generally cheaper than whole of life 
cover, so the cost was likely to be less than £51.02 and may have been more attractive to  
Mr M. I cannot see evidence that AJH considered and presented decreasing term assurance 
quotes to Mr M to help him make an informed decision regardless of his own views about the 
relevance of life cover. Afterall, Mr M wasnt the expert here  AJH was.As for the comment in the suitability report that Mr M was more concerned with the actual 
loss of monies from the pension fund on death rather than being concerned with affecting a 
life assurance policy to cover this, its clear that there was no loss of monies. Rather, its the 
case that the death benefits payable by the BSPS2 wouldve been in a different format rather 
than being lost as Mr M apparently believed.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr M had life cover based on a 
multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £140,000 would be paid in 
the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of 
whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. In addition, the 
value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan would be paid as a lump sum to his nominated 
beneficiary(ies). So, it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr M 
remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £140,000 would be paid on 
his death. It was noted that Mr M intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired.
So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr M remained 
employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled 
AJH and Mr M enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover so that he 
could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Its my view that Mr M had no health issues at the time AJH advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was 
any real merit in Mr M transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit. 
If properly informed, would Mr M have transferred anyway?
Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in Mr Ms best interests and that AJHs 
recommendation could be regarded as suitable in the circumstances at that time. So I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of AJHs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr M, if placed
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr M, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on AJH, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice regardless of his own views. Given Mr Ms reliance on AJH to provide 
expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred to a PPP against its 
advice had it advised him to opt for the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for AJH to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr M wouldve opted for the BSPS2. I 
agree. There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that 
the PPF was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire 
early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the 
starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and 
deferred members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65. Mr M is married. I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr M wouldve envisaged accessing any DC pension savings in the first instance to meet his income and 
lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded benefits from the BSPS2. 
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the 
basis Mr M takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Its my view that FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
AJH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension review 
guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at
that date. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of this final decision.
AJH wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect AJH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, AJH should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation which led to the loss of valuable pension income guarantees.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date
AJH receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
AJH to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint. I require AJH Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that
AJH Financial Services Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M. If Mr M accepts this final 
decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial Services Ltd. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept this final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my final decision before 7 February 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman