DRN-3313554
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Vitality Health Limited charged her an excess under her employers 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here and will instead focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy explains that an excess is payable, and this would be deducted from the 
first invoice for treatment taking place in the plan year (and the next invoice if any 
excess remained). It says the member would need to pay the excess amount to the 
relevant person, hospital or other facility that provided the treatment. 
Mrs Hs membership certificate confirms she has an excess of £250. This was the 
excess chosen by her employer, the policyholder. 
Mrs H asked Vitality to authorise a consultation, and Vitality did so. Ive listened to 
that call, and Im satisfied Vitality reminded Mrs H that shed need to pay the £250 
excess. 
Its clear from Mrs Hs correspondence to Vitality and this service that she didnt 
realise what it meant to pay an excess. However, this wasnt apparent during the call, 
so I dont think Vitality had any reason to go into any greater detail about the excess 
with Mrs H.
If Mrs H is still unclear, it may be helpful if I explain that an excess is the amount 
someone needs to pay towards a claim. When an excess is payable will depend on 
the type of insurance policy  though for this policy, the excess is payable once per 
policy year. 
Mrs H then had the consultation and treatment, which cost £336. Mrs H was liable for 
the first £250, and Vitality paid the remaining £86. This was in line with the policy 
terms. 
I therefore dont find that Vitality did anything wrong. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman