DRN-3617147
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was provided at a time when she was already struggling and couldnt 
afford the payments.
Background
Avant Credit provided Ms S with a loan for £3,500.00 in March 2016. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £135. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms S complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Ms S with this loan. So he thought that Ms S complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it obtained information on Ms S 
income and some of her expenditure as well as carrying out a credit check. It looks like the 
monthly disposable income figure Avant Credit arrived at for Ms S, with this loan included, 
took Ms S right to the limit of her monthly income. So it seems to me that Avant Credit ought 
to have been aware from what it gathered that Ms S might struggle to make the payments to 
this loan.
Furthermore, Im also concerned at the results of the credit check which shows that Ms S 
was already significantly indebted  she had a credit card at its limit and had an overdrawn 
balance more than the amount of a whole months salary. So Im persuaded by what Ms S 
has said about already being in a difficult financial position at the time. 
As this is the case, I think that Ms S lack of surplus disposable income coupled with her 
existing debts meant that she simply wouldnt have been able to make the payments to this 
loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. So Im satisfied that Avant Credit ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms S. 
As Avant Credit provided Ms S with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms S has ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms S lost out because of 
what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Ms S
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Ms S by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges she paid as a result of this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms S to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Ms S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms S complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman