DRN-4101559
The complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) has unfairly refused to pay a claim he made on 
his personal accident policy.
What happened
Mr P has a personal accident policy with SoL, designed to pay varying amounts in certain 
circumstances. In late 2020 Mr P fell and injured his shoulder and face.
Mr P was unable to work, and so he approached SoL to make a claim for temporary total 
disablement. If successful, SoL would pay Mr Ps average income whilst he couldnt do his 
normal job.
In March 2022 SoL said it wouldnt meet the claim because they didnt think Mr Ps disability 
was caused only by the fall in 2020. It said the terms and conditions in the policy meant the 
fall had to be the sole cause of disablement before it need meet a claim  and that as Mr P 
had had problems with his shoulder for many years the fall wasnt the only cause of his 
disablement.
Mr P complained but SoL didnt change its stance, so he asked us to review his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think SoL had done anything wrong: he thought it reasonable for SoL 
to rely on the medical evidence it had received when assessing the claim, and that it had 
had declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. He did consider 
whether it would be fair for SoL to meet the claim in part, but didnt think there was clear 
medical evidence that the recent fall had contributed an identifiable amount to Mr Ps 
subsequent inability to work. The investigator also thought it reasonable that SoL 
concentrated on Mr Ps shoulder injury rather than his facial injury, as the latter hadnt been 
mentioned on any of the medical certificates that said Mr P was unfit for work. Finally he 
thought SoL withdrawing a without prejudice partial payment offer was fair given he didnt 
believe SoL need meet the claim.
Mr P doesnt think thats fair 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Mr P has suffered so much recently and I trust hes recovering well.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Im not going to repeat all that has 
been said previously: instead Ill concentrate on the main issues.
There are several parts to the complaint, so Ill deal with them separately.
Mr Ps facial injuries.
Mr P says he injured his face and had to have dental treatment. I dont doubt that at all, but I 
have to bear in mind that Mr P was making a claim for a temporary total inability to work  
not for the cost of any treatment. SoL has pointed out that dental problems arent mentioned 
on any of Mr Ps certificates that say he cant work  they only mention his shoulder 
problems. SoL also says that it would be very unusual if dental problems prevented Mr P 
from working at all  and I have to agree with that. From what Ive seen, Mr P fractured his 
upper denture, and had a temporary denture for a while. I appreciate Mr P says he couldnt 
make presentations, but I havent seen any medical evidence that suggests he couldnt do 
any of his normal job because of the dental injury. I cant say SoL was unfair when it said it 
wouldnt meet the claim in these circumstances. If Mr P can provide SoL with a medical 
report explaining why he couldnt work at all because of the dental injuries then Id expect 
SoL to reconsider that part of his claim.
Mr Ps shoulder injury
Its clear from the medical records that Mr Ps shoulder wasnt in good shape before the fall. 
Hed had surgery previously (twice) for various problems he had. One of the medical reports 
commissioned by SoL says its unlikely that Mr Ps shoulder had returned to normal after his 
most recent surgery prior to the fall. Its reasonable for SoL to rely upon the medical reports 
it receives, and those suggest Mr Ps previous condition was a factor in the injuries he 
suffered when he fell. 
This service wouldnt normally think it fair for an insurer to refuse a claim simply because Mr 
Ps accident wasnt the only cause of his inability to work. We think an insurer should 
consider a part payment if medical reports identified the contribution the fall made to Mr Ps 
injury. As an example, a report might conclude that an accident contributed 20% towards 
someones inability to work. (Im not suggesting this is the case here). In those 
circumstances Id think it fair for an insurer to offer a part payment. In this complaint, 
however, although the medical report says its likely Mr Ps fall resulted in additional 
damage to an already a previously compromised rotator cuff it goes on to say its impossible 
to say how much the fall exacerbated his condition. So theres no clarity on how much the 
recent fall contributed to Mr Ps current problems.
In addition, the terms and conditions say that SoL need not pay a claim where there are pre-
existing injuries or illnesses. In summary, Mr P needed to have had no medical consultations 
or treatment for his shoulder for the 30 months before his claim for it to have a chance of 
succeeding  even if only in part as described above. Mr Ps medical records show he had 
been having treatment within the 30 month time period, and I think if fair for SoL to apply this 
exclusion to the claim.
Taking all of this into account, I cant say SoL has unfairly refused the claim.
The without prejudice offer
In November 2020 SoL offered Mr P an interim payment  13 weeks disablement benefit. 
SoL believes Mr P declined this offer. Mr P says he didnt and SoL should pay it. I dont 
know exactly what was discussed, but I dont think it affects my ability to reach a fair 
conclusion about whether Mr P is entitled to receive this payment. I say that because it was 
a without prejudice offer, and SoL was entitled to withdraw the offer at any point, if it chose 
to do so. It did that when it decided it wouldnt meet the claim about a year later. Given that 
Ive said I thought SoL acted fairly in declining the claim, it isnt appropriate for me to ask 
SoL to honour the part payment offer.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman