DRN-3835170
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
In March 2017, Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual. By that point,                    
Mr H had accrued 28 years and 4 months qualifying service in the BSPS between                
January 1988 and May 2016. His annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the 
scheme in May 2016 was £13,231.10. 
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
Mr H was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and wanted advice on his options. The cash equivalent 
transfer value of his safeguarded benefits at that time was £332,207.40. In August 2017 he 
contacted another business (Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions to advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr H to IFM. One of 
IFMs advisers recorded the following information about Mr H:
He was aged 47, divorced and in good health. He didnt have any children or other 
people financially dependent on him;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£33,000;
His assets comprised his home which was encumbered with a mortgage. The value 
of his home and any savings or investments he had wasnt recorded;
Other than the mortgage on his main residence (the outstanding loan value wasnt 
recorded), he didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about £300 
to £600 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary (the value of his DC 
plan wasnt recorded but, by that point, total contributions of about £4,000 had been 
invested);
He was an inexperienced investor. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious risk) was 
lowest risk and 5 (Adventurous risk) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined 
to be 1 or Cautious risk. This was defined as, I am a cautious investor who requires 
little risk to their pension capital. I seek stability and conservative growth. I consider 
security to be generally more important than increasing my income.; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire from age 55 or as soon as 
possible after that age.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in September 2017. 
This explained to Mr H that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
IFMs adviser recommended that Mr H transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for the 
following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.44% (or £4,800)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.35% product fee deducted from the PPP fund value
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr H to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
IFM calculated Mr Hs estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 as £20,842.10 
on the basis he took a full scheme pension only. It calculated the critical yield to match that 
benefit as 6.7%. The calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 
55  to align with the age at which Mr H wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following fund to align with            
Mr Hs Cautious risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 100% 5.50%
This complaint
During 2022, Mr H complained to IFM about the suitability of its pension transfer advice. He 
thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr H was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr H to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 55 and leave a lump sum to 
his beneficiaries on death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered relevant 
FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr H with all the necessary information and risk 
warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. In its view, the pension 
transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was clearly in  
Mr Hs best interests at the time. He thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the 
BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator recommended that IFM carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr H transferred to the BSPS2, 
took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he 
recommended that IFM pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
Mr H accepted our investigators assessment. Despite several chasers, IFM didnt provide its 
response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Hs situation
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr H. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr H 
still had the option to retain guaranteed benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. IFM stated in 
its suitability report that full details of the BSPS2 werent known at that stage but were 
expected to be announced shortly.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve delayed its advice until more 
information about the BSPS2 became available. And once those details became available to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly demonstrate 
it was in Mr Hs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Despite several chasers, IFM didnt provide its response to our investigators assessment. 
Im satisfied that Ive been provided with sufficient evidence to decide this complaint. Having 
considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension transfer 
advice to Mr H was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. In summary:
Mr Hs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 28 years and 4 months qualifying 
service, represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. 
So I think its fair to say that when he came to retire he would be heavily reliant on 
the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to 
support his standard of living in retirement. IFM recorded that he was an 
inexperienced investor with a Cautious risk profile which was defined as, I am a 
cautious investor who requires little risk to their pension capital. I seek stability and 
conservative growth. I consider security to be generally more important than 
increasing my income. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and 
longevity risk being transferred from the scheme to Mr B. Taking these factors into 
account, its my view that there needed to be a compelling reason why it was suitable 
for Mr H to transfer to the PPP compared to the alternative option of retaining 
guaranteed lifetime income under the BSPS2;
Mr H was then aged 47. IFM recorded that he wanted to retire from age 55 or as 
soon as possible after that age. With such a time horizon until pension benefits could 
be accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  for the sake of achieving 
possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. Had IFM advised Mr B to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option 
to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, when he could 
immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income and 
lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 47;
IFM stated that Mr H was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility 
over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Cautious risk investor 
like Mr H to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Flexibility and 
control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr H had any concrete need for it. 
It was recorded that he preferred choice and control over guaranteed lifetime 
income, however Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed 
income all his working life and a Cautious risk profile. So I think a guaranteed 
income wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Hs circumstances. In any 
event, he was expected to continue contributing 12% of his annual salary into his 
workplace DC plan for at least the next several years. So he wouldve had flexible 
options available through the TFC available under the BSPS2 and the DC plan 
without taking risk on his main pension provision;
I think the suitability report misled Mr H about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated, Early retirement is unlikely to 
be an option under the PPFwhilst the terms and conditions of the British Steel 2 
Pension Scheme are not fully known. The reference to the PPF is incorrect since 
members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards subject to a 
reduction. The same was also true for the BSPS2. IFM portrayed the reduction as a 
penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact 
that the BSPS2 would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to 
protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, 
its likely Mr H incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits 
early under the BSPS2 when this wasnt actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr H so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
IFM calculated the critical yield to match the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 as 
6.7%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.4%, as explained by our investigator. I 
think the critical yield figure of 6.7% was misleading and understated the true, higher 
critical yield. Ill explain why. The basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide 
ongoing advice to Mr H at a cost  but the cost wasnt stated in the suitability report 
or taken into account when calculating the critical yield. Including the cost of ongoing 
advice wouldve increased the critical yield figure and therefore the growth rate 
required to match the guaranteed income. And so I think IFM misled Mr H in this 
regard;
Notwithstanding this, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr H was seeking to 
take benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at that age to enable Mr H to make an informed decision. But it inexplicably only calculated and presented the figure at age 65. I think 
this is a material oversight because the figure at younger ages wouldve been higher 
(compared to at age 65) due to the shorter investment timeframe and impact of the 
initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This means that Mr H wasnt 
provided accurate information about the level of investment growth required to match 
the scheme pension if he took benefits early. And so the critical yield figure at age 55 
was likely to be well in excess of 6.7%. Its my view that such a rate of required 
investment growth was incompatible with Mr Hs Cautious risk profile, discount rate 
and the estimated annual growth rate of 5.50% (before charges) of the 
recommended investment strategy. I think it was clear that Mr H would be worse off 
as a result of the pension transfer;
IFM recorded that Mr H was divorced and didnt have any children or other people 
financially dependent on him. But a change in the format of death benefits was 
mentioned by IFM as another reason for transferring to the PPP to provide benefits 
for unspecified beneficiaries. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr H about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. Its my view that Mr H had no health issues at the time IFM advised him 
which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to 
his own retirement income for the sake of providing benefits to unspecified 
beneficiaries;
IFM portrayed the PPF as an option to avoid because it would restrict Mr Hs 
retirement. I think this was an unfair representation of the PPF. While I understand 
Mr H was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider 
a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for him to avoid. Under the PPF Mr H wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as 
a Cautious risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which 
exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater 
than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr H to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring 
to a PPP. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension transfer to the 
PPP led to Mr H gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative 
option of transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by September 2017 the 
risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the 
announcement by the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. So I think IFM shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think 
its fair to consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mr H. And so I think, given the lack of clarity surrounding when Mr H 
would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the 
time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As 
such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, 
compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr H accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr H can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman