DRN-3669257
The complaint
Mrs L complains through her representative that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as 
Likely Loans irresponsibly lent her money on high cost loans that she was unable to afford to 
repay.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mrs L with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount* Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
Loan 1 22/03/2018 £1,500 15 months £134.83 21/12/2018
Loan 2 20/12/2018 £1,206 12 months £128.45 17/07/2019
Loan 3 17/07/2019 £1,196 18 months £94.37 20/01/2020
Loan 4 20/1/2020 £1,392 24 months £91.21 Still active
*amounts rounded up or down
Mrs Ls representative said that Likely Loans failed to carry out proportionate checks at the 
time of the application for each loan. She couldnt keep up with all her debt repayments and 
entered into an IVA (individual voluntary arrangement) in October 2020.
Likely Loans said it carried out appropriate verification of Mrs Ls income and a credit check 
for each loan. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to assess her living expenses. 
It assessed that each loan was affordable. It hasnt produced the original credit report for 
each loan but has shown us the overall data from each report.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that for loan 1, Likely Loans 
hadnt made a fair lending decision. She said that it had made fair lending decisions in 
respect of loans 2,3 and 4.
Mrs Ls representative said she didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision, but 
didnt elaborate any further. The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs L would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mrs L applied for repeated loans, each subsequent one to repay the previous one. So Likely 
Loans needed to do a thorough assessment of Mrs Ls circumstances in each case. I have 
used Likely Loans figures which were relayed to her representative. 
loan 1
This loan was for home improvements. Mrs Ls monthly income was verified at £888. Her 
credit commitments before the loan were assessed at £172 a month. With the monthly 
instalment of £134 she would have been paying around 34-35% of her monthly income on 
those commitments. I think this was a high percentage and an indication that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Taking inti consideration that Mrs Ls monthly disposable income was assessed at £116, I 
think this was low, and taking into account the high credit to income ratio I am of the view that this loan was unaffordable. I dont think that Likely Loans made a fair lending decision in 
respect of this loan. 
Whilst I note that Likely Loans objected to our adjudicators calculations, I should point out 
that I have used Likely Loans own figures in my calculations.
loan 2
Mrs Ls monthly income was now assessed at £1,948. She had credit commitments now of 
£361 plus the new loan instalment of £128 (the old loan being paid off). This put her 
commitments at around 25% of her income, and a more manageable disposable income of 
£834. I think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan 3
Mrs Ls monthly income was assessed a at £2,527. Her credit commitments were now 
assessed at £248 with the new loan instalment being £95. So her credit to income ratio 
would have been 13-14%. And her monthly disposable income assessed at £1,483. So I 
think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan 4
Mrs Ls monthly income was assessed at £2,455. Her credit commitments were £227 plus 
the new loan instalment of £92 (again the old loan being paid off). This would have equated 
to a 13% income to credit ratio. And with a disposable income assessed at around £1,110, 
this should have been easily affordable. I think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision in 
respect of this loan.
Despite my assessment this does rather beg the question as to why Mrs L had to enter into 
an IVA. Whilst Likely Loans has said its checks showed she had had past defaults, I havent 
seen that its figures have been disputed by Mrs L or her representative and they havent 
sent in any further evidence.
Putting things right
Mrs L has had the capital sum in respect of loan 1 and its fair for this sum to
be repaid. I should warn Mrs L and her representatives that the administrator of her IVA has
confirmed that, under the terms of the IVA, they do have an interest in the complaint. And its
likely that they will require that any redress be paid to that company rather than directly to
Mrs L. She should contact her representative about the arrangements for this.
So far as the loan 1 is concerned, I think Likely Loans should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs L as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Likely Loans should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs L
Remove any adverse information about loan 1 from Mrs Ls credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely 
Loans to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman