DRN-4316523
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a 
claim under an appliance warranty.
What happened
Mrs P contacted D&G to send an engineer to repair her dishwasher. Due to multiple issues 
with the engineers visiting, D&G said it would replace the dishwasher. Mrs P chose a 
dishwasher from a link D&G sent her. The dishwasher was installed and used by Mrs P. She 
then contacted D&G and said it was an inferior product to her previous dishwasher and had 
a much lower energy rating.
When D&G replied to Mrs Ps complaint, it said Mrs P had chosen the dishwasher and that it 
couldnt now be changed as it had been used. So, Mrs P complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said D&G had acted fairly and had offered a 
reasonable replacement.
As Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
D&G offered a new dishwasher when there was an issue with its engineers visiting to repair 
Mrs Ps dishwasher, which I think was reasonable. It sent Mrs P a link to some dishwashers 
so she could choose the dishwasher. Mrs P selected one of the dishwashers. 
The dishwasher was then delivered, installed and used. Shortly after, Mrs P contacted D&G 
to complain, as she said the new dishwasher was of an inferior quality. D&G said it couldnt 
now change the dishwasher as it had been used. It also explained that the energy efficiency 
rating was lower because the rules around these had changed.
So, Ive thought about this. D&G sent Mrs P a link to choose a new dishwasher and she 
chose one of them. Im aware Mrs P has told this service, the size of the wording/ 
information for each appliance was very small. But, I havent seen anything to suggest she 
made D&G aware of this at the time or that D&G had any reason to think Mrs P wasnt 
happy with the appliance she selected. 
After the dishwasher was installed and used, Mrs P told D&G she didnt think it was of a 
similar quality to her previous appliance. I think its reasonable that D&G said the appliance 
now couldnt be changed. Mrs P selected the appliance and had the opportunity to decide if 
it met her criteria at that time. In addition, once the dishwasher was used, D&G was unable 
to return it to the manufacturer. 
Mrs P was also concerned that her previous dishwasher had an A++ rating, but the new one 
had an F rating. The details of the appliance seemed to show the F rating. D&G also 
explained to Mrs P that the way appliances were rated had changed in 2021, which I 
understand was after she bought her previous dishwasher. As part of the changes to the 
ratings, it was expected that most appliances would have a lower rating than under the 
previous rating system. The rating was also based on different criteria, including updated 
minimum efficiency. In addition, appliances would now be rated on an A to G scale, with no 
ratings of A+, A++ or A+++. So, there was no possibility of Mrs P receiving a new appliance 
with an A++ rating.
Although Mrs Ps new dishwasher had an F rating, I dont think this showed it was of a lower 
efficiency standard. The two appliances were being measured on different scales. If Mrs P 
was particularly concerned by the appliance rating, she also had the opportunity to consider 
this before she chose the replacement dishwasher.
So, based on everything Ive seen, I think D&G acted reasonably when it offered a new 
dishwasher and by declining to change it after Mrs P had chosen it and then used it. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman