DRN-2675311
The complaint
Mr E complains of poor customer service from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard.
What happened
Mr E rang Barclaycard to close one of his credit cards and he says he waited 46 minutes to 
be connected to a call handler. Mr E says that overall the call took approximately one hour in 
total. 
Mr E complained to Barclaycard about how long the call took overall. A member of staff rang 
Mr E regarding his complaint but as Mr E wasnt available to discuss this then they arranged 
a call back at 4:00pm later that day.
Mr E says that the call handler rang him 20 minutes late and said there was no 
compensation available for the time he had to wait on the phone. While Mr E acknowledged 
the call handler apologised to him, he said she gave him incorrect information about closing 
a credit card on the call as she said this could be done online but Mr E said it couldnt be 
closed online when he had more than one credit card. He also asked for the call handler to 
summarise his complaint in the response she would send but the call handler sent a generic 
complaint without listing the things that Mr E asked.
Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr E wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards 
response so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his 
complaint. She said that while she understood that he found the service from Barclays 
disappointing, she thought theyd done enough in acknowledging his concerns and they had 
closed his account on the day as hed asked them to.
Mr E did not agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint as he thought she 
had overlooked some aspects of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered, read and listened to 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must make it clear to Mr E that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Barclaycard handles 
complaints more generally (such as what they include or dont include in their complaint 
letters) dont come under my powers to consider. So Ill just be looking at the merits of his 
complaint regarding the customer service he received.
Ive thought about what Mr E said about the original call. I know that he feels he was on hold 
for a long time and that the call took too long in general. Im satisfied that an hour isnt an 
excessive time to be on the phone to what Barclaycard say is a freephone telephone 
number, when the call was made during the pandemic. I say this as Barclaycard said there 
were increased call volumes during this period. To help reduce call times they brought staff 
in from other areas of the business, but this means that calls may have taken longer than 
usual, as the call did here. But as Mr Es card was closed on the day of the original call, 
which is ultimately what he wanted, Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted reasonably here.
Ive listened to the call that Mr E received from the complaint handler and Ive read the notes 
Barclaycard recorded on their system from the call handler. The call handler said she rang 
Mr E at 4:15pm. But whether it was 4:15pm or 4:20pm the handler rang Mr E later than what 
was agreed. I can understand why Mr E would be frustrated that she rang him later than 
agreed and he said she gave him wrong information about closing his credit card. But just 
because a business makes a mistake, this doesnt mean they should always pay 
compensation  or that itd be fair for this service to tell it to do so. And I dont think itd fair or 
proportionate for me to tell Barclaycard it should do that here.
I say this as Mr E had successfully closed his credit card which is why he called Barclaycard, 
the information the call handler said about how he could do this online is immaterial here as 
it didnt impact him closing his Barclaycard. The call handler apologises to Mr E as she said 
she was on back to back calls and was stuck on a call and thats why she was unable to 
ring him at 4:00pm which seems reasonable. But Mr E has said that if the call handler had 
back to back calls then she shouldnt have agreed to ring at 4:00pm which I think is a fair 
comment. 
But in order to be able to award compensation here, I would need to see that Barclaycard 
has been unreasonable in how theyve treated Mr E and that the impact of this on Mr E 
means itd be fair for Barclaycard to compensate him. Im not persuaded that the call handler 
ringing 15-20 minutes later than agreed is unreasonable, as it appears that she tried to ring 
him as close to the agreed time as possible after she says she was on another call with 
another customer. There was no financial detriment to Mr E here. So, while I realise how 
frustrated Mr E was by this situation - it follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman