DRN-2775414
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs W complain about Society of Lloyds (Lloyds). Their complaint relates to the 
rejection by Lloyds of a claim against their buildings insurance policy in respect of damage 
to a barn from a collapsed roof.
 
References to Lloyds include its underwriters and its agents in the claim process.
What happened
 On 8th January 2020 part of the roof of a barn on Mr and Mrs Ws property collapsed during 
the early hours of the morning. Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds to lodge a claim for the 
damage. Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster and a building surveyor, who visited the property 
to inspect the damage on two separate occasions in January 2020. The building surveyors 
report concluded that the collapse had been caused by dry rot.
The loss adjuster considered the report from the building surveyor and noted that the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy stated that:
We do not cover:
i. Loss or damage caused by, or resulting from:
a. Wear and tear or gradual deterioration, inherent defect, rust or oxidation, 
moth or vermin, normal settlement, warping or shrinkage, rot, fungus, mould 
or infestation
b. Aridity, humidity, exposure to light or extremes of temperature, unless such 
loss or damage is caused by storm, or fire.
The loss adjuster also considered that weather conditions on the evening before the collapse 
were not significant enough to cause damage of the nature observed and that they did not 
consider the cause of the damage to be due to a storm. They concluded, in late January, 
that the damage was due to gradually operating cause and therefore excluded under the 
terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs W disputed the conclusion of the building surveyor that the collapse had been 
caused by dry rot. They engaged a timber pathologist to inspect the barn. The report of the 
timber pathologist in February 2020 ruled out dry rot as the cause of the collapse. The report 
stated:
The failure [of this truss] was definitely not the result of dry rot in the truss and the historical 
wet rot damage does not appear to be a contributory factor.
The report then went on to state that:
Failure of the nailed connections [between the purlins and the truss] may be a more likely 
cause.
Based on this report Mr and Mrs W challenged the decision of the loss adjuster to decline 
their claim. The loss adjuster considered both reports but in March 2020 maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Mr and Mrs W then complained to Lloyds in April 2020. 
Lloyds considered the complaint and the information and evidence from the reports of the 
building surveyor and Mr and Mrs Ws timber pathologist. They rejected the complaint in May 
on the basis that they considered that the more likely cause of the collapse was the failure of 
nailed connections (the comment in the report from the timber pathologist). This failure 
would have been caused by gradual deterioration or faulty workmanship, both being 
exclusions under the terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and requested a further 
review by Lloyds. Subsequently a discussion between the loss adjuster, the building 
surveyor, Mr and Mrs Ws timber pathologist and the broker for the policy was held in June. 
The building surveyor maintained his position that the collapse was due to a failure in the 
frame that was not strong enough to support the weight of the tiles above it. Following this 
discussion, Lloyds rejected the complaint for a second time. 
At the request of the broker that arranged the policy, Lloyds considered the decline of the 
claim. They issued a Final Response Letter in August 2020 that also rejected the complaint. 
They stated that Mr and Mrs W, as the policyholders, needed to show that the damage from 
the collapse of the barn roof was covered under an insured peril within the terms of the 
policy. Having considered the circumstances and evidence about the incident, Lloyds 
conclusion was that Mr and Mrs W had not done so, and therefore they rejected the 
complaint and upheld the decision to decline their claim under the policy exclusions 
previously set out.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy at this outcome and complained to this service in October 
2020. The main issues of their complaint were that Lloyds should not have rejected their 
claim and that it should have been covered under their all risks policy. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She concluded that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong. She concluded from the data available that what this service considers to be 
a storm did take place, but that there wasnt enough evidence to prove that an insured event 
had happened and therefore was covered under the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view that Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong, and that there wasnt enough evidence to prove that an insured event had happened. 
I concluded that under an all risks policy a policyholder doesnt need to show that an 
insured event occurred which caused the damage  they just have to show damage has 
taken place. As it was clear damage had taken place, the key issue was then whether the 
exclusion had been shown. I concluded that - on the balance of probabilities  the cause 
was one that would have fallen under the definition of gradually operating cause, so 
supporting the application of the exclusion. But I also concluded that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt 
reasonably have been expected to have been aware of any underlying damage or weakness 
in the roof. Therefore, I concluded that Lloyds couldnt rely on the exclusion, and that they 
hadnt considered Mr and Mrs Ws claim fairly.
to show that the exclusion had been Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below.Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs W.
The main part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that their claim should not have been rejected. 
Ive considered the evidence available concerning the incident, including the building 
surveyors report, the report from Mr and Mrs Ws timber pathologist, evidence from email 
exchanges as well as the discussion between the building surveyor and the timber 
pathologist appointed by Mr and Mrs W.
From the records provided by Lloyds, when Mr and Mrs W lodged their claim on the day the 
roof collapsed, it was recorded as a claim for storm damage. So Ive looked at the three 
aspects of claims for storm damage that as a service we follow. First, whether there were 
storm conditions around the time of the incident. Second, whether the damage incurred is 
consistent with that we would expect to see from a storm. And third, whether the storm was 
the cause, or the main cause, of the damage. For a complaint to be upheld we would expect 
the answer to be yes to all three aspects.
Ive considered the evidence about whether there were storm conditions at the time of the 
roof collapse. In their initial report in January 2020 the loss adjusters stated that there were 
gusts of up to 40 mph on the evening of the collapse, and that these were not significant 
enough to cause damage of the nature incurred. They therefore concluded that they did not 
consider the cause to be due to a storm. Our investigator considered the weather conditions 
in the area around the time of the collapse and used this information to conclude that there 
were storm conditions.
 
Ive looked again at the information available on the weather conditions in the area. The 
weather source used by this service has weather stations approximately 8 and 11 miles 
distant from the barn, the first to the south west and the second to the north east. The latter 
is at a higher elevation, and Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws point about the barn being in an 
exposed position. So Ive used the second weather station location. On the day before the 
collapse (7th January), a peak gust of 49mph was recorded and the conditions are described 
a Dry Storm. However, the report for 8th January records a peak gust of 37mph at 01.00am 
on that date  which is approximately the time that the collapse occurred. That second figure 
is also close to that in the loss adjusters report.
 
While weather conditions are inherently variable between locations and times, this latter 
report does not indicate storm conditions at the time closest to the collapse. Looking at the 
evidence from the location of the first weather station, the figures are lower for both dates 
(peak gusts of 13mph and 24mph on 7th and 8th January respectively). The higher wind 
speed on the previous day and description as a dry storm might have weakened the roof 
and contributed to its collapse. As the evidence does not clearly show storm conditions at 
the time of the collapse, then Im not persuaded that there were.
 
While Ive concluded that Im not persuaded that there were storm conditions at the time of 
the collapse, Ive considered the second and third aspects because the question of what 
may have caused the collapse  and whether or not it constitutes an insured event (peril) or 
an exclusion under Mr and Mrs Ws policy  is central to the decision of Lloyds to reject Mr 
and Mrs Ws claim, and consequently central to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint to this service.
Its clear that the building surveyor and the timber pathologist disagree about the likely cause 
of the collapse, in particular if it was caused by dry rot (as the building surveyor concluded in 
their initial report) or some other cause. The conclusion of the timber pathologist set out 
above rejects the cause being dry rot, or that the historical wet rot was a contributory factor. As the conclusion was provided by a specialist timber pathologist, I think this is persuasive 
and Ive concluded that rot was not the cause of the collapse.
Ive also considered the comment from the timber pathologists report that the failure of the 
nailed connections may (my emphasis) have caused the collapse. I note that this comment 
is not a definitive conclusion. Ive also noted that he was engaged by Mr and Mrs W 
specifically to consider the issue of whether dry rot was the cause of the collapse. But Ive 
also noted that - in the discussion with the building surveyor in June 2020  he did not retract 
the comment, indicating that he stood by it. Nor in the discussion did he offer any other 
possible cause of the collapse.
 
Mr and Mrs W have said that the comment is speculative, but while Ive noted that it is not a 
definitive conclusion, its included in his report and he stands by it. So I think it should be 
considered alongside the other evidence, comments and the report findings from both 
experts. Mr and Mrs W argue that there is no evidence about the nailed connections as they 
were not inspected either by the loss adjuster, the building surveyor or the timber 
pathologist. However, all three parties did inspect the barn shortly after the collapse and 
each have provided their opinions through their written reports or in subsequent discussions 
and other communications.
The building surveyor, as a structural engineer, maintains that the collapse was due to the 
truss being unable to bear the weight of the tiles above it. He also disagrees with the timber 
pathologists comment that the failure of the nailed connectors may have caused the 
collapse. But Ive also noted his comment that such a failure could only have happened due 
to a gradually operating cause or being installed incorrectly when the new roof was installed, 
and that the failure was not due to a storm (had there been one) or a single, identifiable 
cause that would be covered under the policy.
 
Ive also noted comments from the building surveyor that part of the roof collapsed because 
it could no longer support the applied load, and that no external force caused it, which 
would be consistent with the cause not being a storm. Mr and Mrs W state that there was no 
evidence of deterioration nor of the weight of the roof tiles causing the collapse, and that the 
roof being replaced 11 years before the incident meant that it was as good as new. What is 
agreed is that the collapse was sudden  what isnt agreed is what was the cause of that 
collapse. In the absence of a clear, agreed cause between the parties (including the experts) 
then I have to reach a conclusion, on the balance of probabilities.
Taking all these factors into account, then Im not persuaded that the collapse was due to a 
storm. On the balance of probabilities, Ive concluded that the cause is more likely to have 
been due to a factor that would have been classified as a gradually operating cause, and as 
such would fall under the exclusion clause in the policy.
 
While it isnt part of the evidence about the likely cause of the collapse, Ive also considered 
the point that Lloyds, when responding to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, approached Mr and 
Mrs W to offer to appoint a third expert to discuss the issues with Mr and Mrs Ws own 
expert. Mr and Mrs W declined this offer as they considered that any further inspection 
would be extremely prejudicial to their claim, as the debris from the collapsed roof had been 
exposed to the elements since the collapse. They also considered that their experts 
conclusion would, on the balance of probabilities, carry sufficient weight to result in a 
decision in their favour. While I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws view, I think Lloyds offer 
was a reasonable one in the circumstances where the experts did not agree. While the offer 
was not taken up, Ive taken into account the discussion that was held between the experts 
in forming my conclusions.Mr and Mrs W also argue that as they had an all risks policy and their claim was declined 
by Lloyds on the basis of a policy exclusion clause (gradually operating cause) then the 
onus from insurance case law, as well as the approach taken by this service, is on Lloyds to 
prove the exclusion clause applies. 
I agree that claims under an all risks policy are different from standard insurance policies. 
Most standard policies only cover damage caused by specific listed events (insured events 
or insured perils). The onus is on the policyholder to show, on the balance of probabilities, 
that an insured event caused the damage claimed for. However, an all risks policy 
essentially covers all damage unless its been specifically excluded. A policyholder doesnt 
need to show that an insured event occurred which caused the damage  they just have to 
show damage has taken place. In this case its clear damage has taken place, so the key 
issue is then whether an exclusion has been shown.
Coming back to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim, as I noted above, Im not 
persuaded that a storm was present and therefore was the cause of the damage. And while 
the evidence does not conclusively show the cause of the collapse, Ive concluded that - on 
the balance of probabilities  the cause was one that would have fallen under the definition 
of gradually operating cause, so supporting the application of the exclusion by Lloyds.
However, though Ive concluded that gradually operating cause is most likely to have been 
present, in these circumstances we wouldnt automatically conclude that an insurer had 
acted fairly by relying on the exclusion to reject a claim. Ive considered a second aspect, 
which is whether the policyholder would have been aware of the damage (the gradually 
operating cause) occurring. If the policyholder should have been aware (or ought reasonably 
to have been aware) we would usually agree with an insurer that it can decline the claim. 
If the policyholder shouldnt (or shouldnt reasonably) have been aware then a fair and 
reasonable outcome is likely to be that the insurer cant rely on the exclusion. Thats 
because the policyholder couldnt have done anything more, so it would be unfair to lose out 
because of the exclusion.
Looking at the circumstances of this case, including the reports, photographs and other 
evidence, then Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would have been aware of any 
gradually operating cause. Rot having been excluded, Ive looked at the photographs of the 
barn taken in the immediate aftermath of the collapse. Ive noted that the collapse is partial, 
rather than complete. The photographs of that part of the roof that remained in place also 
dont show any obvious weakness, deterioration or other factor that would have indicated to 
Mr and Mrs W that the roof was damaged or in a weakened condition that would have 
rendered it vulnerable to collapse. Ive also noted that the roof itself was renewed 11 years 
before the collapse, which is relatively recently. Ive also seen no evidence or indication of 
problems with the roof before the collapse.
Based on the considerations, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would - or should  have 
been aware of any underlying damage or weakness in the roof. Therefore, Ive concluded 
that Lloyds cant rely on the exclusion.
For these reasons, I currently dont think that Lloyds has shown its fair to apply the 
exclusion clause. So Im not persuaded that Lloyds has considered Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
fairly.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. I intend to direct Lloyds to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with 
the remaining terms and conditions of their policy.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs W responded to say that they agreed with the finding that they had not (nor 
reasonably have had) any knowledge of weakness in the roof, if any existed. They added 
that given the provisional decision [to uphold their complaint] they would seek to recover 
damages and expenses associated with pursuing the matter, to be quantified at a later date.
In their response, Lloyds disagreed with the provisional decision, stating that they did not 
believe that Mr and Mrs Ws claim was covered as the exclusion clearly applies. They based 
this position on several elements:
Lloyds surveyor reiterated his belief that the collapse was the result of a gradual 
operating cause. He also referred to a 2006 Planning Application for conversion of 
the barn into a dwelling. Although this did not go ahead, the surveyor noted that the 
application referred to replacement of the previous fibre cement roof tiles with 
sandstone slate tiles. The surveyor noted that sandstone slate tiles are significantly 
heavier than fibre cement tiles, and that this would have meant a substantial increase 
in loading across the roof as a whole.
Examples of previous decisions by this service where damage to a roof had occurred 
gradually were cited by Lloyds. In none of these cases were the complaints upheld 
and insurers instructed to pay a claim on the basis that the insured was unaware of 
damage occurring over time.
In requiring Lloyds to re-assess the claim, Lloyds said that this is what they offered 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint to Lloyds. At that point Lloyds agreed 
to appoint a third surveyor to provide their opinion on the cause of the roof collapse  
but Mr and Mrs W would not agree to this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the representations made both by Mr and Mrs W and by Lloyds.
 
Regarding the response from Mr and Mrs W, I would note that my provisional decision was 
intended to give both parties the opportunity to consider my findings and conclusions, and 
my provisional decision itself. I would also note that the provisional decision was for Lloyds 
to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, given my provisional conclusion that it was unfair for Lloyds to apply the 
exclusion clause. We are not claims assessors, so it would be for Lloyds to re-assess the 
claim and reach a conclusion on the claim. For the same reason, it isnt my role to assess 
any claim brought by Mr and Mrs W for damages and expenses.
Turning to the points made by Lloyds, on the first point, about the additional weight of the 
sandstone tiles that replaced the previous fibre cement tiles, I put this point to Mr and Mrs W. 
I asked for further information on the replacement tiles as part of the renewal of the roof that 
Mr and Mrs W told us took place about 11 years before the collapse. 
Mr and Mrs W said that the barn was originally constructed with sandstone tiles, which had 
at some point in the past been replaced with fibre cement tiles. They added that in order to 
achieve Listed Building Consent at the time of the planning application, the local authority planners insisted that the roof should revert to its original construction of sandstone tiles. Mr 
and Mrs W added that they complied with the planners requirements, and that the timber 
supporting the roof was checked for any deterioration and damage and like for like 
replacements put in place where necessary, and treated as necessary, before the sandstone 
roof was reinstated. Mr and Mrs W noted that the timber frame supporting the tiles was 
originally constructed with sandstone tiles, and therefore replacing the fibre cement tiles with 
sandstone tiles was reverting back to the original form of construction.
 
Mr and Mrs W also noted that the renewed roof remained in place for 11 years before its 
collapse, with no indication of degradation due to the weight of tiles (or any other cause). Mr 
and Mrs W also provided documents from building control visits made by the local council to 
the site on five occasions during the work to renew the roof. Mr and Mrs W noted that these 
visits included ones after completion of the roofs renewal, and that no issues were raised by 
the inspectors.
Having considered the points made by Lloyds, and the response from Mr and Mrs W, then 
Ive concluded that the evidence indicates that the work to renew the roof was carried out in 
accordance with the requirements of the relevant planning and building control processes. 
Im also persuaded that had the weight of the sandstone tiles presented a risk to the roofs 
integrity, its also likely to have become apparent in the 11 years between the renewal of the 
roof and its collapse. So Ive concluded that I dont agree with Lloyds view on this point.
The second point raised by Lloyds concerns previous decisions by this service, examples of 
which Lloyds provided with their response. Ive looked at the examples carefully. However, 
in those cases the decisions indicated clear evidence of deterioration that would (or should) 
have been apparent to the consumer at the time. And therefore they should have taken 
remedial action to mitigate the risk of loss. I think this is different to the case of Mr and Mrs 
W, where I concluded that I wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would - or should  have 
been aware of any underlying damage or weakness in the roof. Ive also noted the points 
above about the weight of the sandstone tiles when the roof was renewed. Taken together, 
Ive not changed my view on this point.
The third point made by Lloyds was that in requiring them to re-assess the claim, Lloyds 
said that this is what they offered when considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint to Lloyds. At 
that point Lloyds agreed to appoint a third surveyor to provide their opinion on the cause of 
the roof collapse  but Mr and Mrs W would not agree to this. My view on this point is that 
insofar as it was what they were offering then I dont think Lloyds can object to this approach 
now. And as Mr and Mrs W have accepted my provisional decision, then Ive not changed 
my mind on this point.
Taking together all the points made by Mr and Mrs W and by Lloyds, for the reasons set out 
above I havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
I require Society of Lloyds to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of their policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman