DRN-3483959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their claim 
for an emergency repair to a burst water pipe. 
Mr and Mrs B had home insurance which included buildings, contents and home emergency 
cover. IPA was the underwriter for the home emergency cover. It was administered by 
another company whose name wouldve appeared on correspondence, but the decision to 
decline was that of IPA. The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr B 
throughout.
What happened
Mr B tried to claim under his policy for a burst water pipe. However, IPA said he didnt have 
cover for home emergency. Mr B disagreed and contacted the business which had arranged 
the insurance for him. It became apparent that the administrator of his home insurance 
policy hadnt updated his address details correctly, so IPA wouldve been unaware that he 
had cover. 
Once the confusion was cleared up, Mr B made a claim under his policy. IPA sent a 
plumber, but they couldnt fix the pipe because it was in concrete. IPA declined cover and 
advised Mr B to claim under the trace and access element of his buildings insurance policy.
After speaking with his buildings policy provider, Mr B complained to IPA. IPA advised him to 
get an independent plumber to fix the pipe because it wouldnt cover trace and access. Mr 
and Mrs B moved out of their home temporarily until the plumber could attend. Mr B 
complained to IPA because he didnt think trace and access was needed for the repair 
because the leak was visible. 
IPA paid £100 compensation by way of apology, but Mr B didnt think it was enough. To 
resolve the complaint, Mr B wanted IPA to reimburse him £540 for the cost of the repair and 
to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the evidence supported IPAs view that 
trace and access was needed, therefore cover wouldnt have been available for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Firstly, I should point out that Mr B has a separate complaint with the administrator which 
failed to update his address correctly. Any issues which form part of that complaint wont be 
addressed here, but because of the earlier confusion, I think its fair to allow each party a 
final opportunity to comment.
The issue is that Mr B doesnt think IPA fairly declined his claim following a leak from a burst 
pipe at his home. IPA declined his claim because his policy didnt provide trace and access 
to locate the leak.
Ive looked at the policy and Im satisfied that IPA correctly stated it doesnt cover trace and 
access. I dont think Mr B disputes that. However, what he does say is that the leak didnt 
need tracing because it was quite clear where it was coming from. IPA hasnt disputed that 
the source of the leak was apparent. And both parties agree the pipe in question was 
encased in concrete. 
It may help if I explain that home emergency cover is there to provide for a temporary repair 
to prevent an emergency event, such as a leak, from causing damage or more damage. The 
cover doesnt provide for a permanent repair of the source - unless broadly similar to a 
temporary repair - or the cost of repairing any damage caused. It appears that the issue, 
then, is what trace and access means. Mr B provided a number of definitions taken from 
various insurance information sources to support his view that trace and access is only 
about finding where the leak is coming from. Ive looked at Mr Bs policy with IPA and see 
that under the heading of General Exclusions, it states:
We will not cover the following:
12) Cost of Trace and Access to locate the source of the Emergency
15) Damage resulting from gaining necessary access to the Emergency or reinstating the 
fabric of Your Home, otherwise known as Trace and Access 
Mr B disputes the meaning of trace and access, focusing mainly on the word trace. But its 
reasonable to say access wouldve involved digging through the concrete. So, Im satisfied 
that IPA fairly declined the claim for the reason it gave.
Its worth pointing out that Mr Bs buildings insurance policy does provide cover for trace and 
access, so it was reasonable that IPA advised him to contact the relevant insurer.
Mr B paid his own plumber to complete a temporary repair and he thinks IPA should cover 
that cost. IPA would only be responsible for covering the cost of the actual temporary repair 
itself  that is, what it wouldve cost if the pipe had been accessible when it visited. So any 
part of the repair which wouldve been classed as trace and access wouldnt be covered. I 
note IPA paid Mr B £100 to resolve the overall matter, and the records show that he 
accepted its offer. While he now doesnt think the compensation IPA provided was enough, 
having looked at the evidence I cant agree. IPA sent a plumber to inspect the leak, 
explained that it didnt provide cover in the circumstances, and advised Mr B to speak with 
his home insurance provider. Given that I havent seen any evidence to suggest IPA did 
anything wrong, I see no reason to require any further compensation.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
IPA had nothing further to add.
Mr B responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He explained which 
company had taken the actions discussed and asked me to explain why I thought IPA fairly 
declined his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain.
As I explained in my provisional decision, IPA was the underwriter for Mr Bs home 
emergency policy. That means IPA was responsible for any decisions about whether to 
accept or decline his claim. I understand that the company which administered the policy 
was named on the documents and that is the company Mr B dealt with directly. But it acted 
on behalf of IPA, and IPA takes responsibility for its agents actions. 
I understand Mr B doesnt think IPA paid him £100, and if it did he questions why. As with 
above, the administrator acts on behalf of IPA. So, any payments the administrator made in 
relation to Mr Bs complaint about the claim decision were made on behalf of IPA.
Mr B asked why I thought IPA had fairly refused his claim. IPA declined Mr Bs claim 
because his policy didnt cover trace and access. Although Mr B said the leak didnt need to 
be located, and he believed it was accessible, IPA didnt agree. IPA said further access 
would be needed to complete a repair to the pipe damaged within the concrete. Both Mr B 
and IPA confirmed the pipe was encased in concrete, so Im persuaded that the leak wasnt 
accessible. IPA said he would need to go through his home insurance provider for the trace 
and access. The cover available under home emergency is limited to containing the leak, 
and as Mr Bs cover didnt include trace and access, Im satisfied IPA reasonably advised Mr 
B to seek assistance through his home insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman