DRN-4511256
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Great Lakes Insurance UK Limited (Great Lakes) has unfairly 
declined her claim. 
What happened
Miss D bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, and made a claim for 
cancellation as her daughter was unwell. 
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that Miss Ds daughter would have had 
symptoms when she bought the policy as she bought it late at night, the night before she 
was due to travel. 
Miss D says she simply forgot to buy her insurance beforehand, and her daughters 
symptoms only started after she had bought the policy, even though it was the same day. 
Miss D made a complaint and unhappy with the response, referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly declined 
the claim. Miss D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Miss D booked her holiday in early February and bought the travel insurance policy 
the evening before her flight in April, just after 6pm. On the same night that Miss D 
bought the travel insurance policy, at around 11pm, she said her daughter started 
showing symptoms of Covid-19 and subsequently tested positive. And so they were 
unable to go on their holiday the next day. 
Great Lakes said Miss D would have been aware of her daughters symptoms when 
she bought the policy and so she knew she would have to make a claim. It declined 
the claim on this basis as the policy would only cover claims for circumstances Miss 
D was unaware of at the time of buying the insurance. 
I dont doubt what Miss D says about forgetting to buy the insurance sooner. But 
considering the facts of this case, I think its more likely than not that she was aware 
of her daughters symptoms just a few hours before she tested positive and so I dont 
think Great Lakes unfairly declined this claim. Insurance policies are designed to 
cover unforeseen events. In this case, on balance, I think Miss D was aware that she 
may need to make a claim for cancellation based on the time and date she booked 
the holiday (in February), bought the insurance (the day before the holiday) and her 
daughter showed symptoms of Covid-19 (the same day as the insurance was 
bought).
Miss D says the timing is crucial in this case as her daughter didnt start showing 
symptoms of Covid-19 until a few hours after the insurance was purchased. But I 
think its unlikely that her daughter had no symptoms at all at the time the insurance 
was bought, which was just a few hours before testing positive for Covid-19.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman