DRN-3103476
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their 
travel insurance claim.
All references to Great Lakes include all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance policy on 5 August 2019. The policy is 
underwritten by Great Lakes. 
On 22 February 2020, they travelled to their destination and their return date was scheduled 
for 26/27 March 2020. Their return flights were however cancelled on 23 March 2020 and 24 
March 2020. Mr and Mrs G contacted their travel provider as well as the Consulate office to 
seek advice on how to return to the UK. Neither was able to help them, and they say they 
tried everything to return home. 
Eventually, Mr and Mrs G were able to get flights back to the UK on 8 April 2020. They 
incurred costs for the return flights home, for the two weeks accommodation when they had 
to stay in that country, for car hire abroad and a further car hire cost to return from the UK 
airport to their home. This totalled £7758.99. 
Mr and Mrs G submitted a claim under their travel insurance policy to Great Lakes. In July 
2020, the travel provider refunded £3,280 for the unused portion of their flights. Great Lakes 
assessed the claim but declined it. It said their policy didnt provide cover for what had 
happened and as Mr and Mrs G hadnt taken out additional cover for Travel Disruption, they 
had no cover under the policy. Great Lakes declined to pay for the additional costs theyd 
incurred. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the situation Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in wasnt unfortunately covered under their policy. They hadnt 
cancelled their trip and neither had they curtailed it. She didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to have declined their claim. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office guidance ((FCDO) previously known as the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO))
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential international travel.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised that British Travellers who wish to return home 
should do so now.
On 30 March 2020, the FCDO announced that the government is working in partnership 
with the airline industry in an effort to charter flights to help British people overseas to return 
home.
Mr and Mrs Gs flights were cancelled on 23 and 24 March 2020 respectively. My 
understanding is that they wanted to return home as soon as possible but werent able to. 
They returned to the UK on 8/9 April 2020. 
Was the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Gs contract with Great Lakes.
Having considered these, the only section which could potentially have provided cover to Mr 
and Mrs G was on page 20 of the policy booklet, Section 5 Travel Delay. However, to 
provide cover for what happened to Mr and Mrs G specifically, they would also have needed 
to extend their cover and pay an additional premium. This is set out on page 30 of the same 
booklet, Section 15 Optional Travel Disruption Extension, which included Extended Travel 
Delay and Enforced Stay Cover. However, Mr and Mrs G didnt add on this extension to their 
policy and therefore this section doesnt apply and therefore cover for such an event isnt 
available to them on this claim.
Additionally, looking at all the other sections under their policy, there is no provision for cover 
for what happened in their circumstances. Im not persuaded therefore that Great Lakes has 
declined their claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Overall, I have every sympathy for Mr and Mrs G. I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket 
and that they went through a very stressful time in arranging to return to the UK. Im sorry to 
disappoint them but in the circumstances of their complaint, I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated them unfairly. The policy they took out simply doesnt provide cover for the situation 
they found themselves in. While I understand insurance is taken out to cover certain 
unforeseen eventualities, it doesnt unfortunately always cover every eventuality. The Travel 
Disruption Extension provided that additional cover for what happened here, but Mr and Mrs 
G didnt take this option on their policy.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Great Lakes has acted unfairly in 
declining Mrs and Mrs Gs claim. It follows therefore that I dont require Great Lakes to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman