DRN-4191832
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a training course he purchased using a loan from 
Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd (Caledonian). Mr K is represented by another party but 
to keep things simple Ill just refer to Mr K in my decision. 
What happened
On 28 October 2021 Mr K bought a training course from a supplier Ill call S at a cost of 
£7,800. He financed this using a fixed sum loan from Caledonian.  
Mr K said his circumstances changed after he took out the agreement as he lost his job. In 
early December 2021 Mr K asked S to allow him to cancel the course and provide him with a 
refund. At this point Mr K expressed concerns with the way the course was sold. He said he 
was told before he agreed to enrol on the course that hed only have to pay for the parts hed 
completed and it was not made clear hed have to pay for the whole course if he cancelled 
early. He also said that he did not receive a copy of the loan agreement or information about 
how to cancel the course after he signed up to it electronically. 
S said that copies of the loan agreement and the course registration from would 
automatically have been sent to Mr K after he electronically signed them. So, it thought hed 
have been aware of the cancellation provisions within the contract and that he could only 
cancel within 14 days of enrolment. S said Mr Ks request to cancel the course had fallen 
outside the period permitted in the contract so it couldnt accept the request. It suggested he 
contact Caledonian.
Caledonian didnt accept Mr Ks request to cancel the loan. In response to his complaint it 
said Mr K electronically signed all of the relevant documents including the loan agreement 
which set out Mr Ks cancellation rights and it wrote to Mr K shortly after this reiterating those 
rights. 
Dissatisfied, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Caledonian should cancel the loan or refund what Mr K had paid. 
He wasnt persuaded the course, or the loan had been mis-sold to Mr K. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigator. He said the information about cancellation was not 
provided to him in a durable medium before the cancellation period ended as he was never 
sent a copy of the credit agreement or the cancellation notice. So, he said he should have 
been allowed to cancel the agreement when he asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K paid for the training course through a fixed sum loan agreement from Caledonian. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Caledonian is jointly liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier, S. 
Also, Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 56) has the effect of making S 
an agent of Caledonian during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr K entering into 
the loan agreement. This means Caledonian can be held responsible for the things S said or 
didnt say, and what it did or didnt do during the sales process. This would include all the 
discussions Mr K had with Ss salesperson on the day he agreed to buy the course.
Caledonian has provided a number of documents which it says were signed during the 
process of selling the course to Mr K including the registration form and the loan agreement. 
Mr K hasnt said that these documents are not genuine or that he did not sign them, so Ive 
proceeded on the basis that these are documents he signed.
Its generally held that if someone has signed a document they are taken to have read and 
understood it. I think in most circumstances the documents Mr K signed would have left a 
reasonable person with the impression that they had 14 days to cancel their purchase. 
So, the starting point here is that Mr K had understood and agreed that he would only have 
14 days to cancel his purchase from when he received the course material
Mr K has said that although he electronically signed the above-mentioned documents, he 
accessed them via a link provided by S and the documents were never actually made 
available to him after they were signed. He said because the cancellation rights were not 
provided in a durable medium, he should be allowed to cancel the loan. 
Mr K has referenced some legislation which he says gave him the right to do this. I think he 
means the Cancellation of Contracts made in a Consumers Home or Place of Work etc. 
Regulations 2008. However, these regulations did not apply to this sale because the contract 
was not made during a visit by S to Mr Ks home.
I think the most relevant legislation given Mr Ks complaint and given the way the course was 
sold was more likely the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional 
Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR). These provide certain obligations on suppliers when 
selling products off premises or via distance contracts, some of which are implied into 
contracts. In other words, the legislation inserts certain rights or obligations in the contract. 
The ultimate effect of some of these provisions if not followed could result in a right to claim 
a refund of money paid to to the supplier, the cancellation of the supply contract and/ or the 
cancellation of an ancillary contract, such as related finance agreement. 
There are obligations in respect of what information a supplier needs to provide about 
cancellation rights where they exist. 
The sale here appears most likely to have been a distance contract because it was made 
under an organised distance sales or service-provision scheme and wasnt made in the 
simultaneous physical presence of Mr K and S. However, if I am wrong on that point and the 
contract was an on-premises contract then the CCR did not provide cancellation rights. 
Ive looked at the relevant provisions for this kind of contract in the CCR. If S didnt provide 
certain information about cancellation to Mr K and in a certain way, the cancellation period 
was extended (up to a maximum of around 12 months). 
The CCR required S to give or make available to Mr K information about how he could 
cancel (including the conditions, time limit and procedures for exercising that right) in a clear 
and comprehensible manner, and in a way appropriate to the means of distance communication used, and a cancellation form which had to be worded in a particular way. 
The CCR sets out that something is made available to a consumer if he/she can reasonably 
be expected to know how to access it.
The registration form that Mr K has confirmed he signed included both the information about 
cancellation in a clear and comprehensible manner and a cancellation form in the way it was 
supposed to be worded. So, it appears the necessary information about cancellation was 
made available to Mr K  even if that was electronically via a link. Mr K signed the 
documents so he must have known how to access them to have done that. 
Mr K has said the registration form was not accessible once he had signed it. Its not clear 
from the evidence Ive been provided that the registration form was emailed or posted to Mr 
K immediately after he electronically signed it. The evidence S has supplied only appears to 
confirm that Mr K accessed certain documents to sign them electronically, not that copies 
were necessarily sent to him for his retention. There is one record of Mr K accessing 
something the day after he signed the registration form and loan agreement. S said this was 
the registration form and loan agreement but thats not clear enough from what it has sent 
us. 
Nevertheless, the requirement in the CCR appears to be that the information was made 
available to Mr K, not that it was provided in a durable medium. And as Ive said, it appears 
the necessary information was made available as Mr K signed the registration form which 
contained it. Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr K wouldnt have been able to 
access the registration form after this if hed asked for it from S.  
What this all essentially means is that it appears unlikely the CCR assisted Mr K in a claim 
for breach of contract or with the cancellation of the course and the loan. 
In addition to his rights to cancel the supply contract within a specified time, Caledonian said 
Mr K was able to withdraw from the loan agreement within 14 days of signing it and it 
wouldnt have paid S until after this period had expired. I see Caledonian wrote to Mr K on 4 
November 2021 reminding him of this and asking him to contact it urgently if he hadnt 
received a copy of the loan agreement so it could supply one. 
That letter looks to have been correctly addressed to Mr K. So, it appears in addition to the 
information that was set out on the loan agreement confirming this  which again Mr K saw 
and signed, Caledonian made him aware that he could cancel his agreement within 14 days. 
It also looks to have put Mr K on notice that he should contact it for a copy of the credit 
agreement if he hadnt received it. So, I dont find it would be fair to conclude in this case 
that Caledonian failed to supply this information. 
Mr K also said that he was told by the person that sold the course that he would only have to 
pay for the modules he had completed. S has only provided partial call recordings of the 
conversations and Caledonian has said that it cannot get the missing parts as it is not the 
data controller for those calls. Its not clear why S could not provide full recordings and I do 
understand Mr Ks concerns that key parts of the calls are missing. 
There is no mention in the parts of the calls that have been supplied that Mr K only had to 
pay for the modules he completed. From what I have seen, the discussions about how the 
course would progress gave me the impression that the course was at least a 24 month 
commitment and the screens that were shared by the adviser supported this.  
I accept its possible Mr K could have been told he could pay for just the modules hed 
completed in the parts of the call that havent been provided. But given what Ive said above and looking at the information on the registration form and credit agreement he signed, this 
would have significantly contradicted the information about the duration of the agreement 
and the cost of the course. Overall, Ive not seen enough to make me think on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr K was told hed only need to pay for the modules he completed. 
Thinking about all of this, while I do sympathise with the situation Mr K finds himself in, it 
doesnt appear that Caledonian treated Mr K unfairly by refusing to accept his request for the 
loan to be cancelled and written off at the point he asked it do this. I do not find therefore that 
I can reasonably ask Caledonian to cancel the loan or refund Mr K what he has paid to it. 
I would however remind Caledonian of its obligation under the regulators rules and guidance  
to treat Mr K with forbearance and due consideration in respect of any financial difficulties he 
may be experiencing, including coming to a suitable payment arrangement should that be 
necessary.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman