DRN-3327800
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc delayed dealing with her employment claim 
under a legal expenses insurance policy, which caused her to be time barred in pursuing the 
matter in a tribunal.
Where I refer to Allianz, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Mrs P has brought her complaint to our service through a representative but for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to Mrs P directly as if all submissions have been made by her.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs P submitted a claim to Allianz under her legal expenses insurance 
policy. The details she provided were limited but appeared to relate to an employment 
dispute. 
Mrs P says despite many emails and calls to Allianz, it failed to deal with her claim in a 
timely manner and she missed the deadline to issue proceedings in the Employment 
Tribunal. 
Allianz says it sent many requests to Mrs P for more details regarding her claim, but this 
wasnt provided. As it didnt have enough information to determine if the claim was covered 
by the policy, it wasnt able to assist further. Allianz says it was Mrs Ps responsibility to 
evidence her claim and to ensure she protected her position with the Employment Tribunal.
Mrs P raised a complaint which she brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold 
it. She said it was reasonable for Allianz to require information to assess the claim and there 
was no evidence that this was provided. 
As Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P is an eligible claimant under the legal expenses policy, which provides cover for 
employment disputes. But the policy is not without terms and conditions, and the obligation 
is on Mrs P to prove that she has a valid claim. 
Allianz has provided us with its full file including its contact notes. I can see that Mrs P 
submitted a claim form in February 2020 which provided very little information about the 
dispute with her employer. Allianz responded requesting all supporting documents to enable 
it to assess the claim, including a chronology of events, contract of employment, letter of 
dismissal / resignation, and grievance proceedings. 
Ive seen that Mrs P did contact Allianz, but this correspondence appears to be limited to 
comments regarding Allianzs conduct. The requested information wasnt provided, other 
than a copy of her employment contract which it received in June 2020. 
As Mrs P didnt provide the information required by Allianz, it was unable to assess her claim 
to determine whether it met the policy terms and conditions. As such, Allianz wasnt in a 
position to accept the claim. 
Im satisfied Allianzs email clearly explained what information it required and the 
consequences of not providing it. Its unfortunate that Mrs P went on to miss the time limit to 
pursue her legal action, but I cant fairly say this was a result of anything Allianz did or didnt 
do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman