DRN-3999183
The complaint
Mr G complains that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) had poor 
processes and gave him a poor service when he was trying to buy an annuity.  
What happened
Mr G had a pension policy with RL. It contains a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). He called 
RL in June 2022 about annuity quotes for his pension policy. He wanted to make an 
appointment to discuss his options.
RL explained that as it no longer offered annuities directly, it worked with a panel of the five 
leading annuity providers. And that Mr G could discuss his potential annuity with RLs 
Annuity Bureau. It said the discussion would take around an hour. 
After some discussion, RL confirmed to Mr G that the GAR on his policy would be protected, 
despite another provider being used to provide the annuity. It explained how this would work.
Mr G said his contract was with RL. He was slightly concerned that a new provider would be 
involved with the provision of his annuity. He felt this could bring additional risk. RL told him 
that it worked with the five largest providers, and that they all had Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) protection. Therefore it didnt think that using them rather than RL added any 
risk.
Mr G said hed previously been provided with a quote in January 2022. But understood that 
this would now be out of date. He therefore wanted updated figures to be provided before he 
arranged a discussion with the Annuity Bureau. He felt that without the figures, the 
conversation would drag on. And that he might have to speak to them more than once. 
RL told Mr G than multiple quotes could be covered during a call with the Annuity Bureau. Mr 
G said he would need updated quotes to be produced before he had a discussion with the 
Annuity Bureau so he could discuss them.
RL said it would request the quotes and email them to Mr G. But that it would likely take two 
working days. Mr G asked if he could arrange a call with the Annuity Bureau so that it took 
place shortly after hed received the quotes. But RL said it wasnt able to book an 
appointment until the quotes had been produced, as the Annuity Bureau wouldnt allow two 
open work items. It said it would ask for the quotes and then ask the Annuity Bureau to alert 
it when theyd been produced, so it could book Mr G an appointment with the Annuity 
Bureau. 
Mr G said he didnt feel like this was good customer service. RL said it would raise this 
internally. Mr G also said that as the annuity decision was so complex, he didnt think a call 
would be enough. He felt such a decision needed detailed analysis. 
Mr G felt that the process was cumbersome and much more complicated than it needed to 
be. Hed already had to wait to be connected to this call. Mr G felt hed now have to make 
several other calls simply to get his annuity. And that hed have to speak to the Annuity 
Bureau more than once. He didnt think this was good customer service. RL logged the 
complaint. 
RLs file notes show that it called Mr G on 5 July 2022. The call notes recorded that he 
wasnt yet ready to proceed with the annuity and just had some questions. 
RL issued its first final response letter to the complaint on 21 July 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that, as a business, it no longer provided annuities to 
customers, but used an Annuity Bureau service instead. It said that when customers went 
through the Annuity Bureau service, they had the opportunity to discuss the annuity features 
they needed. And that they could potentially be offered higher rates than if RL still offered its 
own offered annuities.
Mr G was unhappy with this response as he felt RL had misunderstood his precise concerns. 
He said he understood and accepted that RL no longer provided annuities to customers and 
instead offered an Annuity Bureau service. And that his issues were with the operation of the 
service. He listed his complaints as follows:
1) He was unhappy that the quotes he needed had to be obtained before a call with the 
Annuity Bureau could be arranged. He felt this was unnecessarily bureaucratic and 
not customer focused.
2) He said that once hed got the quotes, the earliest date a call with the Annuity Bureau 
could be arranged was 5 July 2022. He noted this meant the earliest available 
booking was 12 days later and felt that this was too long. 
Mr G also felt that RL had been incorrect to state that the Annuity Bureau service could 
potentially obtain higher annuity rates in his case, due to the GAR on his policy. He felt this 
couldnt be exceeded by current market rates. He felt this showed that the facts in his case 
werent fully established in RLs investigation.
RL issued a second FRL on 26 August 2022. It still didnt think itd done anything wrong. It 
said that before it could refer customers to the Annuity Bureau, it needed to discuss the 
available options. And that these needed to take into consideration other factors such as 
health and lifestyle as customers might be eligible to take enhanced annuities from 
companies within the Annuity Bureau panel.
RL said that the Annuity Bureau service would discuss a customers 
medical/employment/lifestyle history so that his or her eligibility for an enhanced annuity 
could be determined. And so that quotes could be provided. It said that it was possible that 
higher annuity rates could be found, even on the GAR part of Mr Gs policy. 
RL acknowledged that it might have been inconvenient for Mr G to have to wait for an 
appointment with the Annuity Bureau, but said that it allowed up to ten working days for 
available appointments.
Unhappy with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service on 30 December 
2022.  He felt that RL still hadnt addressed his complaint. He said he had the following 
issues with RLs second final response letter: 
- It still hadnt established the facts accurately. He felt that the apparent arguments 
regarding the benefits of the Annuity Bureau were irrelevant. 
- He didnt think the response had focused on his complaint.- He felt the response contained a contradictory point as it had said RL believed in 
financial advice, but then gone on to state that it couldnt provide any financial advice.
- He felt that RLs role was to provide a service to its customers. And that the customer 
should come first, not the process. 
Mr G felt that the complaint process had wasted his time. To resolve his complaint, he 
wanted RL to acknowledge that it had handled his complaint poorly and that it still hadnt 
fully addressed his points. He also wanted RL to do what it said it would do, which he said 
was: to take the valuable opportunity to see how we can do things better in future.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that RL was 
entitled to make commercial decisions about what services and products it provided and 
what process it used to refer a customer to its Annuity Bureau. She also said that Mr Gs call 
with the Annuity Bureau was arranged for eight working days after the request for it. And that 
as RLs service level agreement was ten working days, which this service didnt consider 
was unreasonable for this kind of process, it had acted correctly and fairly.
Our investigator also said that only RLs regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, could 
instruct RL to change their processes. And that this service was unable to look at the 
complaint handling aspects of Mr Gs complaint as complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He felt this service should be able to investigate RLs 
complaint handling. He also wanted this service to sanction RL.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs comments. But they didnt change her view. She said 
that the FCA, rather than this service, was RLs regulator. So only the FCA could sanction, 
fine, change financial regulations and decide what falls in and outside of jurisdiction for all 
UK financially regulated businesses. So while she acknowledged it was disappointing that 
complaint handling didn't fall within this services jurisdiction, she said that was for the FCA 
to decide. 
Mr G felt that the fact that this service couldnt investigate complaints handling was a serious 
omission from our remit. And that this should be made clear on our website. He said if hed 
been made aware that we couldnt investigate complaints handling, he might have 
progressed his complaint further with RL. 
Our investigator told Mr G that he could complain about this service to our regulator, the 
FCA. She said that it also writes the DISP rules which state what our service can and can't 
investigate.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr G. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Ill first address Mr Gs complaint about RLs complaint handling, which our investigator felt 
this service isnt permitted to investigate.Complaints about complaint handling
Mr G felt that we should be able to investigate complaints handling. And the fact that we 
cant should be made clear on our website. 
Consumers do sometimes tell this service that theyre upset about how a business has 
looked into their complaint. When this happens, we have to carefully identify precisely what 
the complaint thats been referred to us is about, and whether its within our jurisdiction.
If the complaint to us is solely about the complaints process, (for example, a business didnt 
address a consumers concerns in the final response letter, as is the case here) without any 
connection to the underlying financial service that the firm provided, then we may not have 
jurisdiction to look at it.
As each complaint has to be investigated on its own merits, it wouldnt always be helpful to 
state on our website that this service cant investigate complaints handling. This is because 
there may be some complaints where the complaints process is connected to the underlying 
financial service that the firm provided. 
In this case, the complaint about RLs handling of Mr Gs complaint wasnt about the 
provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service. And because of this, I agree with our 
investigator that it is outside the scope of our jurisdiction.
I also agree with our investigator that the FCA  this services regulator  decides which 
complaints we can investigate. The FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules define what we 
can and cant investigate, and were entirely bound by these rules. The DISP rules set out a 
list of regulated activities our Service can investigate, and complaint handling isn't listed as 
one of these activities. 
Therefore, while I understand why Mr G would like this service to assess whether RL fairly 
handled his complaint, this service isnt permitted to.
I next considered Mr Gs complaint about the service RL provided its customers, and 
whether the process it used was fair and reasonable. 
RLs process
Mr G felt that RL focused on setting a process that was convenient for it, rather than its 
customers. 
RL said it wasnt able to book an appointment with the Annuity Bureau until the quotes had 
been produced, as the Annuity Bureau wouldnt allow two open work items. 
I understand why Mr G wouldve preferred to be able to book an appointment with the 
Annuity Bureau during the same call in which he requested the new annuity quotes. 
Unfortunately, RLs processes didnt allow this, as the Annuity Bureau wouldnt allow two 
open work items. 
I agree with our investigator that RL is entitled to make commercial decisions about what 
services and products it offers and what process it uses to refer a customer to its Annuity 
Bureau. Ive seen no evidence that RL made an error here or treated Mr G any differently 
from any of its other customers. As such, I cant fairly agree that this was unreasonable.
I dont consider that the inability for the call to be arranged during the June 2022 call affected 
what Mr G wanted to do with his pension. I also dont think it significantly delayed the appointment with the Annuity Bureau. I say this because during the June 2022 call, Mr G told 
RL that he wanted to have received the quotes ahead of his appointment with the Annuity 
Bureau. And that as they would probably take two working days to get to him, hed get them 
the Monday after the call. I understand this wouldve been 27 June 2022. Mr G suggested a 
call could then be booked for him for the Monday after that, as this would give him the time 
he needed to review the quotes. From what I heard on the call, Mr G wouldve been happy to 
book an appointment for 4 July 2022. 
I do appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr G to have to speak to RL again to arrange the 
call. But as I noted earlier, I dont consider that RLs process was unfair or unreasonable. 
And, in any event, Mr G had a call with the Annuity Bureau on 5 July 2022. The call was 
arranged within RLs ten-day service standard. And it was held only one day later than the 
date Mr G wouldve requested, given a free choice. Therefore I dont think RL did anything 
wrong here. 
I finally considered Mr Gs other complaint points. As noted above, I cant investigate RLs 
complaint handling. However, I can make a few points that might clarify matters.
Other complaint points
Mr G didnt think that RL had established the facts about his situation accurately. He felt that 
the arguments RL made in its complaint responses about the benefits of the Annuity Bureau 
were irrelevant. He also felt that RLs second complaint response contained a contradictory 
point when itd said it believed in financial advice, but couldnt provide it.
From what Ive seen, Mr G thinks that RL had been wrong to state that the Annuity Bureau 
service could potentially obtain higher annuity rates in his case, due to the GAR on his 
policy. He felt this couldnt be exceeded by current market rates. He felt this showed that the 
facts in his case werent fully established in RLs investigation.
RLs second final response letter stated:
The [Annuity Bureau] service discusses the annuity features that customers require, goes 
through the customers medical/employment/lifestyle history to determine eligibility for an 
enhanced annuity and provide quotes from our panel of annuity providers.
I consider that it was correct and reasonable for RL to have stated this. Thats because there 
was the potential for an enhanced annuity depending on Mr Gs 
medical/lifestyle/employment situation. And without going through the discussion with the 
Annuity Bureau, RL couldnt know whether the GAR would be better than a potential 
enhanced rate or not. Therefore I dont think this evidences that RL hadnt correctly 
established the facts about Mr Gs situation. 
I dont agree with Mr G that RLs second complaint response contained a contradictory point 
when itd said it believed in financial advice, but couldnt provide it. Im satisfied that this 
reflects RLs position accurately. I also say this because RL told Mr G during the June 2022 
call that it couldnt provide him with any financial advice, but that it recommended he got 
such advice. It also recommended Mr G sought other assistance with his annuity choice, 
such as through Pension Wise. I consider that RLs position is reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr G wants RL to change its process for getting an annuity so that in future, 
customers dont have to take so many steps to get an annuity. RL hasnt agreed to do this, 
so Mr G would like this service to sanction it. 
As our investigator noted, the FCA, rather than this service, is RLs regulator. This means that only the FCA could sanction or fine RL, or require it to change its processes. 
Having considered everything, I dont think RL has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Im 
satisfied it correctly followed its processes. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman