DRN-4398711
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mrs R says:
Mrs R was sadly widowed in January 2019. Before that, she had to give up her job to look 
after him for several years. Most of her late husbands money from his estate went to his 
grown-up children (by a previous marriage). Mrs R received a small share of the sale of her 
late husbands house  this was received in November 2019. She was understandably 
feeling depressed  and trying to rebuild her life again. She was on Facebook and a pop-up 
announcement introduced her to the notion of bitcoin investments. She looked into it and 
was then approached by someone purporting to represent a bitcoin trading platform.
This person guided her how to trade and how to send money to the platform  which I will 
call A. She researched the FCA website about the platform A, and there werent any 
warnings about it. So she went ahead and made the following payments:
Date Payment type / Beneficiary Amount
8 November 2019 Faster payment / Barcelona 
beneficiary£4,000 (in 
euros)
3 December 2019 Faster payment / Dublin beneficiary £10,000
6 December 2019 Faster payment / Dublin beneficiary £10,000
12 December 2019 Faster payment / Dublin beneficiary £10,000
12 December 2019 Faster payment / Dublin beneficiary £15,000
17 December 2019 Faster payment / Dublin beneficiary £25,000
Total Loss £74,000
 
The investment turned out to be a scam. Mrs R has now relocated from the UK  as the cost 
of living was too high. And moved back to her original home country, where she has returned 
to work, but only on a small salary. She needs the inheritance from her late husband to 
enable her to live.
Mrs R learned of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). She thought that 
meant she could get the money back - and asked about it at a branch of HSBC - but they 
didnt know anything about it. 
What HSBC said:
HSBC said the payments were international and werent covered by the CRM Code. They 
said that the branch shouldve arranged for the beneficiary banks to be contacted to see if 
any funds could be returned  even though that was unlikely to be the case. Because of that, 
HSBC paid compensation of £100.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said HSBC shouldve 
intervened in the first large payment of £10,000: it was to a new international payee and was 
for a larger amount than Mrs R normally made. But HSBC didnt intervene. But he went on to 
say that had HSBC done so, he didnt think the scam wouldve been uncovered  because 
the paperwork had been received from A and it looked genuine. There werent any warnings 
on the FCA website about A at the time  these were posted later, in January 2020.
Mrs R asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mrs R has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs R didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made to an overseas (non-UK) account. So  the Code 
cannot be used here to look to provide any refund of the money paid.I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payment was of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how Mrs R normally used her account  then we would expect HSBC to have 
intervened, held the payment and spoken to Mrs R about it.  
I looked at Mrs Rs account since February 2019 (when the account was changed from a 
joint account to an account in Mrs Rs sole name). And its fair to say that the payments were 
unusual compared to the way in which she used her account  which was to make day to 
day expenditures of low value  apart from one payment of £2,594 in October 2019. 
I can see there was then a credit (from the estate distribution) of £128,701 in November 
2019  just prior to Mrs R making the payments to A.
I think HSBC didnt need to intervene in the first payment of £4,000. I say that as theres a 
balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause 
unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think HSBC acted reasonably 
in processing the first payment.
But after that, I think it was reasonable to expect HSBC to have intervened and asked 
questions of Mrs R. This should have started with the second payment on 3 December 2019 
 for £10,000. This was a payment to a new, international payee and was much larger than 
Mrs R was used to making. If HSBC had intervened, its reasonable to say its likely the 
scam wouldve been uncovered and the second and subsequent payments wouldnt have 
been made. And in each case, I can see they were preceded by a credit to Mrs Rs account 
of the same amount. 
HSBC was the expert in such matters and if theyd intervened and contacted Mrs R we 
would have expected them to ask open questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
If HSBC had asked these questions, Im persuaded they wouldve learnt of Mrs Rs 
circumstances:
- That she had been recently widowed.
- That this was most of her money.
- That she had no experience of investing, nor any knowledge of bitcoin trading and its 
risks.
- That she had been introduced to the opportunity via Facebook.
- That she didnt know the bitcoin contact.
All of these were large red flags and there was enough going on to persuade me that Mrs R 
wouldve been warned about the risks involved and wouldnt have made the payments. I 
dont think that the fact that Mrs R received acknowledgement of the deposits is a reason not to uphold the complaint  its in the nature of such scams that paperwork which looks 
genuine is sent to scam victims. And  these were sent after each payment was made in any 
case.
And so, I think its reasonable that HSBC are liable for the five payments totalling £70,000 
(but not the first payment of £4,000)  plus interest at 8% per annum simple since the date of 
the payments to the date of settlement.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. Mrs R went to the branch of HSBC 
in April 2020. Had HSBC tried to recover the funds then, I think its very unlikely that any 
money wouldve remained  as the nature of such scams is that funds are removed within 
hours of them being received.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs R accepted my findings. HSBC didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R accepted the provisional decision, and HSBC didnt respond, my final decision is in 
line with the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
- Refund £70,000 plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of the payments 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman