DRN-2956172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
 
The policy was purchased on 2 March 2020, to cover a holiday from 16 May 2020 to 30 May 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs M paid £188.22 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered their declared medical conditions. The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their travel 
insurance policy, also included a discount of £27.23.  
On 5 May 2020, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their holiday. On 18 May 2020, they contacted the 
broker to cancel their travel insurance policy and request a refund of the premiums paid. 
Great Lakes said that as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, 
Mr and Mrs M were not entitled to a refund of the premium. It was willing to offer them a pro-
rata voucher for the remaining time that it would have been on risk but as the calculated 
amount was low, it instead offered them a 20% discount voucher to be used against a new 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this offer and so they complained to Great Lakes and 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He found that neither the relevant regulators rules 
nor the policy terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs M to a premium refund. But he did 
think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund as it was no longer on 
risk for the trip. However, he said the refund should be calculated from the date they 
cancelled their holiday, not the date they contacted Great Lakes. And he also felt that the 
formula Great Lakes used to calculate the refund (especially in relation to the discount 
offered) wasnt fair. Due to the health of Mr M, which meant his future travelling plans were 
uncertain, he said that he thought it was fairer for Great Lakes to provide a cash refund, 
rather than a voucher. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view, but Mr and Mrs M didnt. They felt that they 
should receive a full refund of the premium. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr and Mrs M purchased via the broker also included an additional cover option, 
but this was not insured through Great Lakes. This decision relates purely to the premiums 
paid to - and any refund offered by - Great Lakes, so I will not be commenting on this aspect 
of the complaint here.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Ms 
cooling-off period ended on 16 March 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 18 May 
2020. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting 
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs M purchased, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs M are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. Ive also considered whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-
rata refund of their premiums by way of a voucher or a monetary refund. Ive thought about 
what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us that they should receive a full refund of their premiums as they 
havent used the insurance. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ms 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 2 March 2020. 
This is because Mr and Mrs M werent just insured for the dates of travel. The premium 
charged by Great Lakes also covered the risk of Mr and Mrs M having to cancel their holiday 
for one of the listed reasons that the policy covered. And this was from the date they took out 
the cover.Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear 
any risk under Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in 
relation to the cancelled trip. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the 
holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer 
going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made 
while Mr and Mrs M were travelling abroad. 
Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata refund of the premium that they paid for their 
single trip travel insurance policy  calculated from the date they cancelled the policy. But as 
previously mentioned, it wasnt covering any risk after the holiday was cancelled, as no claim 
was made. So, Im persuaded that Great Lakes should provide a pro-rata refund of the 
premium paid from the date the holiday was cancelled, rather than the date Mr and Mrs M 
contacted it to cancel the insurance. 
How the refund should be paid
It is important to note that it was Mr and Mrs Ms decision to cancel the insurance policy  
although I understand their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs M entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great 
Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.
Ordinarily, I would be of the opinion that a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations 
attached to that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the 
circumstances. However, Mr and Mrs M have told us about changes to Mr Ms health which 
have occurred since the policy was cancelled and, as a result of these changes, they dont 
think they will be able to travel abroad again in the near future, if at all  so they will not need 
travel insurance. Ive thought about how Mr and Mrs Ms change in circumstances has 
impacted on their ability to travel and therefore utilise the voucher for future trips. And based 
on what weve been told about his ongoing health situation, Im persuaded the pro-rata 
refund of premiums in this particular case should be made by way of a cash refund.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a letter from Mr Ms doctor to support the change in his 
circumstances. They have requested the amount charged for this letter is added to the 
refund. Ive thought about this very carefully, but Im not persuaded that Great Lakes is 
required to refund this cost. It would always have been necessary for Mr and Mrs M to 
substantiate the reason why a voucher was not suitable for them and, unfortunately, it 
appears Mr Ms GP has charged for this evidence. It is possible to obtain information, such 
as copies of medical records, at no cost to the patient and so Mr and Mrs M didnt need to 
incur a charge to support the change in health. Taking this into account, and also bearing in 
mind that I havent seen evidence that Great Lakes specifically requested a letter from the 
doctor in support of this situation, Im not asking Great Lakes to repay this sum.
The calculation of the refund
Great Lakes has told us it doesnt break down the premium for the basic policy based on the 
cover it provides pre-travel (if the trip has to be cancelled) and post-departure cover. Instead, 
it says the premium charged is split equally across the whole period of cover.An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Based on 
the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances.
Great Lakes provided to us the formula it uses in order to calculate the refund of the policy. 
However, I agree with our investigator that this doesnt provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome. This is because Mr and Mrs M received a discount on the premium at the time of 
taking out the policy and the calculation doesnt reflect this correctly. Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for the policy was for a period of approximately 90 days 
from 2 March 2020 to the 30 May 2020. So, any pro-rata refund should equate to the 
premiums equivalent to 26 unused days of cover from 5 May 2020 until the original end date 
of the insurance policy. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes need to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata cash refund of the premium on 
the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled  which was 5 May 2020
This should be calculated based on dividing the actual price paid to Great Lakes for 
the policy by the total cover length, multiplied by the number of days not on risk.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive detailed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman