DRN-2373311
The complaint
 Ms M complains that she cant trust her mortgagee Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB). Her banking 
information is being sent to complete strangers, and ARB hasnt dealt with her complaint. 
Shes been overpaying her mortgages at a huge financial loss. Shes asked ARB to change 
her mortgage product and send her a statement, but it hasnt done so. Shes asked for a 
refund and ARB hasnt responded. Shes unhappy that her rate switched to the Variable 
Rental Rate (VRR) in December 2017 and since then shes been on a high rate, without 
having the opportunity to switch products.
She says ARB claims it emailed her a response when it didnt, and when she asked for it to 
be resent, ARB failed to do so.
     
To resolve her complaint she wants to be refunded, compensated for the breach of 
confidentiality and be put on the lowest rental rate.
 
What happened
 Ms M has two buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages with ARB which she took out in 2015 and 2016. 
They are Sharia-compliant home purchase plans, so they operate differently from a standard 
mortgage. I will refer to the mortgaged properties as G Way and O Road. I have a copy of 
the mortgage offer for O Road which was made on 17 May 2016. I dont have any 
documentation relating to G Way.
Ms M says she has received no correspondence from ARB about the mortgages. However 
she says that a year after the mortgages started (I dont know whether she means 2016 or 
2017) her payments increased significantly. She says she phoned ARB in April 2019 to ask 
why it had never contacted her, why it had never sent any statements and why the payments 
had increased. ARB said it had sent letters to her, including one notifying her of the increase 
in the payments. 
She says that ARB confirmed that it had her current address, outside the UK, on its records. 
Ill call this address 1. But it had sent all correspondence to another address (address 2) by 
mistake. ARB made a complaint internally on her behalf. She also requested that it change 
her mortgages to a lower rate and refund the increased payments. 
But she received no response. On 21 May 2019 she emailed ARB to find out what the 
response to her complaint was, but was told to wait. In mid-August, she emailed again to find 
out why she hadnt received a reply. ARB told her on 19 August that it had sent her an email 
response on 26 June and that it would resend this. But she received nothing. Her father had 
visited address 2 and the occupier had said he had sent the ARB letters back to ARB.
ARB didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said the mortgages had been completed on 
13 July 2015 and 4 May 2016. Both of Ms Ms application forms had given her current 
address as address 1.
An appointment had been made for Ms M on 22 July 2016 to open an On-Demand Savings 
Account. Her application form had said her current address was address 2. Therefore, her 
address had been updated to address 2 in ARBs records.
ARB said it had issued a mortgage statement in August 2016 but this was returned on 
8 August 2016. An email had been sent to Ms M on 10 August 2016 with the mortgage 
statement attached. The email had advised her to update or confirm her address. ARB 
hadnt received any communication from Ms M regarding her address.
Ms M wasnt happy and brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said hed been provided with evidence that ARB had emailed 
her as post had been returned, and that shed opened a savings account on 22 July 2016 
giving her address as address 2. Ms M asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator. So I decided to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
ARB said, in its response to Ms Ms complaint, that an appointment had been made for 
22 July 2016 for her to open a savings account. In an email to our service dated 
2 October 2020 ARB says the account was opened over the phone but it didnt have a 
recording. Nor is there any record of it in ARBs notes.
Ive been given a copy of a savings account application which purports to have been made 
by Ms M. Theres no date or signature. It gives address 2 as Ms Ms current address and 
says she moved to that address on 1 June 2011. ARB says this is why it changed her 
address from address 1 to address 2 in its records.
But I also have a copy of Ms Ms BTL mortgage application for O Road sent to her by ARB 
for signature on 4 May 2016. This gives her present address as address 1 and her previous 
address as address 2. It says she did own address 2 but that she sold it and bought G Way.
ARB has provided a screenshot of Ms Ms profile which shows a savings account containing 
a very small credit balance and the two BTL mortgages. 
Ms M cannot herself have inserted address 2 in the July 2016 savings account application, 
because ARB says that was made on the phone. Its more likely that address 2 was inserted 
by ARB. And this was an error because as ARB already knew from the earlier mortgage 
application, Ms M had sold address 2 some time before.
The investigator asked ARB to provide copies of all mortgage statements since the inception 
of the two BTL mortgages. In response ARB sent statements for April-July 2019 and October 
2019-January 2020. Both show address 2, the wrong address.
On this evidence I consider it likely that Ms M did open a savings account, but that ARB 
mistakenly used her old address and worse, changed her address in its records from her 
current correct address, address 1, to the address of her previous property which she had 
sold some time before, address 2. It then proceeded to send all correspondence to her at 
address 2, some of which was returned by the new owner.
Indeed ARBs complaint notes following Ms Ms call in April 2019 say:Customer has two BTLs with us since 2016, however applicant has stated that she has 
never received any correspondence regarding these whatsoever. The address on the 
system is incorrect - the address that had been noted down during the application process 
was [address 1]. We are unsure how this switched over to [address 2], which has not been 
applicants address for a very long time.
ARB says it e-mailed Ms M on 10 August 2016 about the address issue. But it cant 
evidence this and the case notes for that date dont mention it although there are two entries 
for that date. ARBs complaint notes say:
Please note also there is a case on file 8 August 2016 - titled returned mail - where stated 
we sent an e-mail to customer with rent review and asking them to contact us with details of 
correct address - cannot see this ever happened. Customer also has been sent a number of 
Rent Reviews - which have not been returned, stating rate Customer is on.
but the reminders and rent reviews all went to the wrong address and the file note referred to 
was two days before ARB claim the email was sent, and the entry in the case notes for 
8 August 2016 doesnt say ARB sent an email.
The mortgage offer for O Road made on 17 May 2016 says: 
What you will need to pay each month
This information assumes that your Buy to Let Purchase Plan will start on 16 July 2016 and 
that:
      You have selected a fixed rental rate of 3.69%
      The selected rental rate will apply until 31 December 2017
Whilst a fixed rental rate applies, your monthly payments will not change. Following the 
expiry of the fixed rental rate period, the rental rate charged will be the Al Rayan Bank 
Variable Rental Rate, which for this Buy to Let Purchase Plan is currently 5.49% (Bank of 
England base rate plus a margin of 4.99%).
The Al Rayan Bank Variable Rental Rate will be reviewed in March, June, September and 
December each year. If the Al Rayan Bank Variable Rental Rate changes at any review 
date, your rental payment will change as well. This means that following the expiry of your 
fixed rental rate, if the Al Rayan Bank Variable Rental Rate changes at any review date, your 
monthly payment may go up or down.
and
On the assumption that the transaction closes on the assumed date set out in (m) of the 
HPP Schedule, and that there is no change to Base Rate prior to completion, then the rent 
will be fixed during the first rent period which ends immediately after the first rent review date 
and the Monthly Payment will not vary during that rent period from that shown in (n) in the 
HPP Schedule. After the first rent review date, your rent will be charged at a rate calculated 
by reference to the Al Rayan Bank Variable Rental Rate less any applicable Discount unless 
we have agreed a fixed rental rate period.
Paragraph 1.3.5 of the offer letter says:
On the first rent review date and on the last day in each subsequent March, June,  
September and December during the payment term, we will conduct a rent review and calculate the finance balance by deducting the amount that you have paid by way of 
acquisition payments (including any additional acquisition payments as provided in clause 
1.3.7) from the amount of our contribution, and the amount of the finance balance (being the 
balance of the acquisition payments required to be paid during the remainder of the payment 
term). Using this information, we will calculate your Monthly Payments for the following three 
month period by applying the Al Rayan Bank Variable Rental Rate (less any applicable 
Margin Discount) to the finance balance and will send you a rent adjustment notice that will 
show this information and provide you with your revised Monthly Payments for the following 
three month period. We will repeat the recalculation of your Monthly Payments as described 
above throughout the payment term.
So Ms M had selected a fixed rental rate which would end on 31 December 2017. She would 
then pay the VRR and that rate would be reviewed every three months and a rent 
adjustment notice sent to Ms M, setting out her new monthly payments. Thus ARB took 
responsibility for telling Ms M about the increased rates after expiry of the fixed rate.
However because of ARBs mistake about her address, Ms M didnt receive any rent 
adjustment notices. Nevertheless she knew the fixed rate would end on 31 December 2017 
and should have been expecting the rate and payments to change. And indeed she says in 
her complaint form to our service: 
A year after the mortgages started, the mortgage payments increased significantly.
This would in fact have been in January 2018 but Ms M didnt contact ARB to find out why, 
or to sort out a new rate, until April 2019. 
As part of the resolution of her complaint, my understanding is that Ms M seeks payment of 
the difference between the rental payments shes made from 1 January 2018 to date and the 
payments she would have made if shed received rent adjustment notices on the two 
mortgages and had applied for and obtained new fixed rates from 1 January 2018. 
However I dont think it would be fair to order ARB to pay the whole of that difference over 
the whole of that period. I think ARB was at fault in failing to provide Ms M with rent 
adjustment notices as it was contractually obliged to do, but I also think she was partly to 
blame because she knew or should have known that her fixed rates had expired on 
31 December 2017 and that she needed to apply for new ones to avoid staying on the VRR.
I invite both parties to indicate, in their responses to this provisional decision, what new rates 
and over what periods they contend Ms M might have obtained if she had applied in 
December 2017 for new rates effective from 1 January 2018.
Subject to what the parties say, my provisional view is that this complaint should be upheld 
and that ARB should pay to Ms M:
half the difference between (a) the rental which she has paid since the dates the two 
mortgages reverted to the VRR and (b) the rental she would have paid if she had 
obtained new rental rate products from those dates;
interest from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement at 8% simple per 
year from those dates until settlement. This is to compensate for loss of use or access to 
money but if Ms M is unhappy about interest being awarded she can let me know in 
response to this provisional decision;£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M by (a) her mortgage and 
other banking information being sent to complete strangers; and (b) ARBs failure to 
send her mortgage statements and rent adjustment notices or otherwise communicate 
with her at all. 
Ms M also asks to be put on the lowest payment plan but its not appropriate for me to order 
ARB to do that. Ms M needs to apply for available mortgage products in the usual way and 
raise another complaint if ARB doesnt respond.
the responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
ARB said that to calculate the difference between what Ms M had paid, and what she could 
reasonably have expected to pay had she switched, it would apply a rate of 3.94%, which 
was a rate available at that time on both home purchase plans.
ARB didnt know whether Ms M would have responded to any letters regarding the product
expiry had these been received. Indeed, she still hadnt applied for a new rate, so had 
remained on the VRR despite bringing this to ARBs attention in April 2019.
Therefore ARB would only consider it fair to pay half the difference between 1 January 2018 
and 30th June 2019. Ms M had become aware of the rates she was paying in April 2019, as 
she contacted ARB to discuss this. She had had the opportunity since then to choose an 
alternative rate but hadnt. Therefore, ARB didnt believe it should refund the difference in 
payments after June 2019, allowing reasonable time to review the products available and 
switch. 
ARB said it thought £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M was 
excessive and it would propose £100.
Ms M said that she didnt receive a reply to her complaint in April 2019, because ARB sent it 
to the same wrong address. ARB didnt comment on any of the points she had mentioned in 
the complaint. This demonstrated that ARB didnt even read it.
It was ridiculous to say that she didnt choose a rate when ARB didn't even know she had 
asked for the rate to be changed until a few months ago. When ARB finally read her 
complaint, it didn't send her a reply to inform her of what rates were on offer. It was ARBs 
duty to inform customers of the rates. It should refund the difference calculated to now.
Ms M said she didnt know what the £250 compensation was for. Shed been under extreme 
stress since April 2019, dealing with ARB which had never sent her any correspondence, 
didnt reply to any of her requests and breached confidentiality by sending her information to 
an unknown address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the light of these responses it seems to me that the question left for me to decide is 
whether the refund calculation should be made to the date of this final decision or only to 
30 June 2019.
On 21 May 2019 Ms M emailed ARB to follow up the April 2019 conversation. She said she would like an updated statement, to be placed on the best current rate, and a refund of her 
excess payments since going onto the VRR. ARB replied that it would be in touch with her in 
due course. 
ARB then wrote to Ms M on 10 December 2019, at the wrong address. In that letter ARB 
acknowledged she was unhappy about three matters, which included that she hadnt 
received any correspondence about her product switch. However ARB only dealt with the 
other two matters. It said nothing about the product switch.
In its response dated 27 November 2020 to my provisional decision, ARB gave the following 
information:
Ms M has the option to switch to our existing products. More information on these products 
can be found online at [website].
For clarity, the current rates available are as follows:
4.39% fixed for 2 years
4.94% fixed for 5 years
This information is very helpful, and if it had been given to Ms M in April 2019, at which time 
the rate was 3.94%, I have no reason to suppose that she wouldnt have acted on it, despite 
ARBs reservations. 
I dont agree with Ms M that its a lenders duty to proactively inform customers of rental rate 
products. However ARB knew from her email of 21 May 2019, if it didnt already, that she 
wanted to apply for one. And its clear from the 10 December letter that it knew she was 
expecting correspondence about this. But the letter said nothing. 
I agree that in normal circumstances it is for the customer to take the initiative. However on 
this occasion ARB was aware that Ms M was expecting to receive information which she had 
requested. But it simply ignored the request.
That said, I dont think Ms M can reasonably take the position that she could do nothing for 
the whole of 2020. She had a duty to mitigate her loss, and the information she needed in 
order to make a product application was readily available, as it was to every customer, on 
ARBs website.
Having considered all the circumstances I believe a fair and reasonable course is for the 
refund calculation to be be made to 10 December 2019 on the basis that at the very least, 
ARBs letter of that date should have been sent to the correct address and should have 
contained information about applying for a rental product.
Both parties have objected to my provisional award of £250 for the trouble and upset caused 
to Ms M. ARB thinks its too high, Ms M thinks its too low.
Bearing in mind that it covers a breach or potential breach of confidentiality as well as the 
failure to send mortgage statements and notices, I dont think its too high. 
Nor do I think its too low because ARB didnt persistently neglect to send communications to 
Ms M, it sent them to the wrong address as a result of an error. And no harm appears to 
have been caused by any breach of confidentiality over and above the distress caused to 
Ms M by her mortgage and other banking information being sent to complete strangers.For these reasons I confirm my provisional conclusions save as appears below. Ms M hasnt 
objected to ARBs suggested rate of 3.94%, nor sought to suggest that a lower rate was 
available.
Putting things right
My view is that this complaint should be upheld and that ARB should pay to Ms M:
half the difference between (a) the rental which she has paid since the dates the two 
mortgages reverted to the VRR and (b) the rental she would have paid if she had 
obtained new rental rate products from those dates at 3.94%, both sums to be calculated 
to (and including) 10 December 2019;
interest on the amount of each overpayment at 8% simple per year from the date of the 
overpayment to 10 December 2019. This is to compensate for loss of use or access to 
money.
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M by (a) her mortgage and 
other banking information being sent to complete strangers; and (b) ARBs failure to 
send her mortgage statements and rent adjustment notices or otherwise communicate 
with her at all. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Al Rayan Bank PLC to make payments 
to Ms M as set out above.  
If ARB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman