DRN-2520350
The complaint
 Mrs G and Mr G (or the complainants) are represented. Their representative says Craig 
Mitchell (CM) is responsible for facilitating, in 2017, the complainants investment in an 
unsuitable property investment bond (the bond) by undertaking that it had assessed the 
bond as suitable for them. They believe the bond is now worthless and seek compensation.
What happened
 The parties submissions can be summarised as follows:
The complainants confirm that they never met or spoke to CM. They say the £40,000 
invested in the bond was a gift from their parents to help with the investment; that 
they engaged only with an unregulated investment introducer throughout the making 
of their investment; and that they regarded the signed and dated undertaking given 
by CM in the investments application form to be confirmation that the bond had been 
assessed, by CM, as suitable for them.
The complainants say they wanted to take no risks at the time of the investment. 
Information about their circumstances at the time refers to the following  they were 
married with two dependents; they were around 40 years old and employed; Mr G 
had annual earnings of £28,000 and Mrs Gs earnings at the time are stated as 
£40,001 - £100,000; they each had cash savings of £5,000, Mrs G had a pension 
worth £18,000 and they shared a home worth £400,000 (with an outstanding 
mortgage of £60,000); and neither of them had any other types of investments and 
debts.
CM denies advising the complainants and it has challenged this services jurisdiction 
to address the complaint on the grounds that no regulated advice exists within it. CM 
says it never met, spoke to or had any dealings with the complainants; that they were 
never introduced or referred to it; that it misunderstood, or was misled by, the 
undertaking it signed; that it believed it was merely verifying the identities of the 
complainants in the investment application process; that it had no intention of 
undertaking responsibility for advising the complainants because it gave no advice to 
them; that it received no remuneration from them, from the introducer or from the 
investment company; and, for all these reasons, it has no documentation about the 
complainants or their investment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He referred to the wording of the undertaking signed by CM and considered it implausible 
that CM was mistaken as it now claims to be. He took the view that CM accepted 
responsibility for advice and that it facilitated the unregulated investment on false terms. CM 
disagreed with this outcome. It challenged the investigator to establish evidence of its 
service and advice and argued that in the absence of such evidence his defence to the 
complaint should stand. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Jurisdiction
In terms of investments and the subject matters we can address in a complaint, the regulator 
defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution section of its Handbook as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 and in 
the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. Investment 
advice is therefore a regulated activity and complaints about investment advice are in our 
jurisdiction. Within a firms responsibility for investment advice is its duty to give suitable 
advice  as expressed in the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook at COBS 9 ad 9A. 
That duty is what the complainants say CM breached by assuring them  through its signed 
undertaking  that the bond was suitable for them.
Investment advice is  
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
I accept the absence of documentary evidence showing any details of advice between CM 
and the complainants. I also accept that both parties agree they never met or spoke to each 
other. However, more appears to have happened  in order to result in CM playing a role in 
the investment  than both parties have been able to explain. 
The evidence that tips the balance in favour of the complainants account of events is the 
undertaking that CM signed. In its absence, given that there was no contact or 
communication between the parties, it would have been the complainants task to establish 
enough evidence to show, on balance, that advice happened. If they could not do so, there 
would probably be a lack of grounds to conclude that they received advice from CM.
The matter is not being considered in the absence of CMs signed undertaking, instead that 
undertaking serves as pivotal evidence. Its contents were as follows:I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment 
as suitable for the above named client.
This undertaking is stated at the beginning of the last page of the application form for the 
bond. All previous completed pages gave information about the complainants application for 
the bond. Directly beneath the undertaking, and in handwriting, CM confirmed its Authorised 
Adviser name, its firms name, its firms FCA number, its signature and the date of 27 April 
2017. A copy of the complainants bond certificate confirms that their investment was 
concluded the following day  on 28 April 2017.
In light of this evidence, I consider it very implausible that CM was mistaken as it presently 
claims to have been. The wording of the undertaking is unambiguous. It would have made 
clear to CM that, by completing and signing it, it was giving assurance about what the words 
expressed  that is, it was giving assurance that it had assessed the bond as suitable for the 
complainants.
Furthermore, CMs submissions also conflict with the above evidence. It says the 
complainants were never introduced or referred to it. Yet, the undertaking shows that it was 
prepared to give the assurance that it had assessed the bond as suitable for them. Without 
an introduction or referral to CM, CM would have been completely remote (and unknown) to 
the complainants investment. Even though both sides never shared contact or 
correspondence a referral, of some form, must have taken place in order to have led to CMs 
undertaking. CMs denial of a referral also conflicts with its claim that it believed it was 
signing verification of the complainants identities. The question arises as to how and why it 
would have been prepared to verify the identities of people it had not met or spoken to and, it 
says, had not been referred or introduced to it.
The unregulated introducer appears to have played a role in the complainants investments. 
The extent of that roles influence upon them is not clear, but it is more likely (than not) that 
the introducer referred their investment and/or their investment application to CM  leading 
to CMs undertaking. CM role and undertaking was therefore important  otherwise it would 
not have been sought. With evidence of that undertaking, grounds exist to conclude that CM 
did assess the bond to be suitable for the complainants and that the assessments outcome 
was evident from the signed undertaking and was also probably conveyed back to the 
complainants through the introducer.
CM was the regulated firm in the matter. Regardless of any role played by the unregulated 
introducer, CMs confirmation that it assessed suitability means the regulated activity of 
advising on investment took place  albeit, in a somewhat unorthodox form  and that it was 
the regulated firm that advised the complainants on their investment. This establishes our 
jurisdiction to address the complaint.
Merits
Despite evidence that CM assessed suitability of the bond for the complainants and 
concluded that the bond was suitable for them, there is no documentary evidence of how it 
conducted that assessment and of the reasons why it concluded the bond was suitable. The 
possibilities that arise from this are either that its conclusion lacked reasoning or the reasons 
behind the conclusion were not recorded and/or shared with the complainants in writing. In 
either case, CM cannot presently justify why it concluded that the bond was suitable for the 
complainants.
The task that remains is for me to consider whether (or not) the bond was suitable for the 
complainants based on available evidence. That evidence is limited, but I consider it sufficient, especially as the investment they made appears to have been unregulated  
which, broadly speaking, is not commonly a suitable type of investment for many (or most) 
retail investors. This means good reasons and particular circumstances would probably have 
been needed to justify such an investment.
There is no evidence about investments the complainants might have held prior to 2017, but 
evidence that  other than Mrs Gs pension  they had no investments in that year serves as 
a basis to conclude that they probably held none previously. 
Even if the above conclusion is wrong, it remains the case that there is no evidence of them 
having previously invested in unregulated products or schemes. In addition, the bond was 
also based on a property development scheme which, broadly speaking, carries inherent 
higher risks  for example, the risk of illiquidity if/when the relevant underlying property 
cannot be completed or is completed and cannot be sold (or commercially exploited), then 
capital might not readily be recoverable from the investment. There is no evidence of the 
complainants previously having experience in property-based investments.
The complainants evidence is that the capital for the bond investment was a gift from their 
parents and that they had a total of £10,000 in cash savings. In terms of their capacity for 
loss, these are the key considerations  equity in their home and Mrs Gs pension would not 
be relevant to that capacity as the former was not a disposable asset and the latter was an 
asset reserved for Mrs Gs retirement. The notion of placing a gift of £40,000 into a higher 
risk property-based investment and having £10,000 in cash savings leftover  and nothing 
else in terms of investment assets  does not illustrate a suitable capacity for loss. An 
immediate observation is that the complainants would have had no ability to cover a total 
loss of their investments. Overall and on balance, I consider that the complainants lacked 
capacity for loss in the bond investment.
The complainants say they did not want risk in the investment. It would have been the roles 
of proper fact finding and suitable investment advice to determine a meaningful risk profile 
for them and to advise on whether (or not) the bond mismatched such profile. There is no 
evidence that either of these happened. As such, I consider that an unregulated property 
bond would have been a notable mismatch for investors who did not want to take the risk of 
losing any money. Had they received suitable advice, it would have included notice like this.
In the absence of evidence showing that the complainants had a specific objective for the 
bond investment, I consider it reasonable to conclude that because of their aversion to risks 
and their limited capacity for loss it is likely that they wanted a safe way to invest and to 
make some money on the investment. In that context, their options would have been 
significantly wider beyond the unregulated bond investment, and suitable advice would have 
made this clear to them.
Overall and on balance, the bond investment mismatched the complainants aversion to 
risks; they did not have the capacity for loss in such an investment; they did not have 
experience of such an investment; and their likely objective could have been achieved in 
other ways which matched their overall profile. The bond was unsuitable for them and CMs 
assessment that it was suitable was wrong.
Putting things right
 fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put the complainants as close as I can to the 
position they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice. I take 
the view that, but for their reliance upon CMs confirmation that the bond was suitable for them, they would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what they 
would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given 
available evidence of their circumstances at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of the bond with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay them compensation in the form of the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation for financial loss is payable.
Provide them with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
UK Property 
Development 
Solutions PLC 
BondStill ExistsThe Bank of England 
average return from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
settlement Not Applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided the complainants agree to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If 
that is not possible then CM may request an undertaking from the complainants that they 
repay to CM any amount they may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all of those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
The complainants should engage meaningfully with CM to provide it with any information on 
the bond it requires in order for it to calculation the compensation.
why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The complainants wanted to invest with no risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that the above benchmark matches such an investment profile and that its 
use in calculating compensation would reasonably put the complainants into a 
position that broadly reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from a 
suitable investment.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mrs G and Mr G. I order Craig 
Mitchell to conduct redress to them as set out above and to give them a calculation of 
compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman