DRN-1554277
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple. 
Mrs D says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. 
 
What happened
Mrs D opened a store card account in a shop in 1994. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy. That policy was cancelled in 1996. Around five years later, in 2001, Mrs D took out 
another PPI policy to protect her monthly repayments on the store card. AXAs records show 
that this time, she took the policy out over the phone.
In both cases, the policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs 
Ds store card each month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if 
shed lost her job. Both policies included some purchase protection cover. And the 2001 
policy also included life cover and some price protection cover. The 2001 policy was 
cancelled in 2002, just over six months after Mrs D took it out.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ds signed application for the store card. It includes a 
prominent section on PPI. Theres a brief summary of the cover, and equally 
prominent options to take or decline the cover. Theres a tick in the box to indicate 
that Mrs D wished to take the cover.
 I think that the way the PPI was set out on the form made it clear that it was optional. 
And even though Mrs D says the shop was busy, I would have expected her to check 
the form over before signing it. Overall, I think that Mrs D chose to take the PPI, 
knowing that she had a choice about it- although I can understand how she may no 
longer remember this, so many years later.
 
Mrs Ds told us that in 2001 she was sent an agreement and asked to sign and return 
it, but she didnt know she was signing up for insurance. Ive borne in mind that shed 
already had the store card account for a few years at that point. So I think it would 
have been clear to her that she didnt need to take PPI in order to have the card. 
AXA hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago it took place. I dont know what was 
said to Mrs D during the call. But based on what we know about the way AXA sold 
these policies, I think its more likely than not that there was a conversation about the 
PPI and it was added because Mrs D said she wished to take the cover.
 
Ive also borne in mind that after she took out the 2001 policy, the PPI premiums 
would have started to show on Mrs Ds monthly store card statements again, after a 
break of around five years. If she didnt realise shed taken the cover, and didnt want 
it, I think its likely shed have contacted AXA to query the payments. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she did so.
 
Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think 
its unlikely that AXA made a personal recommendation to Mrs D to take out either of 
the policies. So it didnt have to check if they were suitable for her. But it still needed 
to make sure it gave Mrs D enough information to enable her to decide for herself if 
she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed have had of making her 
monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
 
Mrs Ds told us that shed have been entitled to 12 weeks full sick pay from her 
employers when she took out both policies. And when she took out the 2001 policy, 
shed have been entitled to a further 12 weeks sick pay at half pay. If shed made a 
successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she 
owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit 
agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been 
repaid- whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have covered her for 
longer than shed have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mrs D received from her employer. So she could 
have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think the policies could have been useful for Mrs D. 
And although its possible that her partner could have helped with her monthly store 
card repayments if need be, circumstances can change, and I cant be sure hed 
have been in a position to help if the need had arisen.
 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs D chose to take out 
the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now. She was eligible for the policies, and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things they didnt cover (for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ds told us she was finding it difficult to manage financially at 
the time. But the amount she paid for the PPI each month would have depended on 
how much shed spent on the card. So if she didnt spend much, the PPI premium 
would be correspondingly low. Mrs Ds also commented that a benefit of 15% of her 
outstanding balance for each month of a successful claim doesnt sound cost-
effective. But overall, I think the peace of mind that she wouldnt fall behind with her 
store card repayments if she was off sick for an extended period, or if she lost her 
job, meant that the policies provided her with a valuable benefit. And as she was 
paying for them monthly, she could have cancelled them at any time if her 
circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer needed the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
policies would have made Mrs D change her mind about taking them out. So I dont 
think shes lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have done wrong.
 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ds comments, including what shes said about the shop 
assistant having told her shed have more chance of her application being accepted, and 
would be given a bigger credit limit, if she ticked and signed the box for PPI. But shes also 
told us the assistant didnt tell her she was taking out insurance and just told her to sign the 
documents at a busy till to get a discount. I find those statements hard to reconcile. But in 
any event, Ive explained that I think it was clear from the application that the PPI was 
optional. 
I dont doubt that Mrs D has given us her honest recollection of events. But Ive borne in 
mind that she opened the store card account around 25 years ago, and I wouldnt expect her 
to have a clear memory of what was said at the time. And I cant fairly conclude, without 
stronger evidence, that Mrs D was put under unfair pressure to take out the PPI.
Ive considered what Mrs Ds said about not having received any written information about 
the PPI. AXA says it would have sent Mrs D documentation with full details of the insurance 
by post. And I dont have strong enough evidence to convince me that theres any reason 
why it would have departed from its usual procedures in this case.
Ive also borne in mind that Mrs Ds told us she didnt claim on the PPI when she was 
seriously ill in 2005. She says she didnt realise she had PPI that she could have claimed on. 
But AXAs records show that the second policy was cancelled in 2002. So it would no longer 
have been active.
Taking everything into account, these points dont change my conclusion that the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.Juliet Collins
Ombudsman