DRN-3894675
The complaint
Miss A complains about the settlement shes been paid by Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance 
Group JSC for a personal possessions claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss As suitcase was lost while in the possession of an airline. So she made 
a claim on her travel insurance policy for her lost suitcase and its contents.
Bulstrad turned down Miss As claim. It said the policy didnt cover losses which were 
recoverable from another party. And in this case, it considered the airline was responsible for 
reimbursing Miss As losses. Miss A made a complaint to us about Bulstrads decision, which 
was considered and not upheld by an investigator.
Subsequently, the airline made an offer of USD 398 to reimburse her for her lost
possessions. So Bulstrad reconsidered its position. Based on the cost of the items Miss A
had claimed for, together with the age of those items, Bulstrad offered to pay Miss A
settlement of £700.
Miss A was unhappy with Bulstrads settlement offer. Her total personal possessions claim
was for around £1550  more than double Bulstrads offer. So she asked us to consider a
new complaint about its proposed settlement.
Our investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Miss A
had provided Bulstrad with enough evidence to demonstrate she owned the items shed
claimed for. So she didnt think it needed to pay anything more.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Bulstrad had made a fair offer of settlement. I said:
First, I appreciate that Miss As suitcase was lost over three years ago, and I dont doubt
how frustrating it must be for her that her complaint still hasnt been resolved. Im also sorry
for the delays Miss A has experienced in our service looking into this complaint. I hope it
reassures her to know that Ive carefully considered all shes said and provided.
Next, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss As
contract with Bulstrad. Miss A held the Premier level of cover, which has an overall
personal possessions policy limit of £3500. However, this doesnt mean that Bulstrad is
bound to pay the full value of claims within and up to that limit. Its reasonably entitled to
consider claims in line with the Personal Possessions and Baggage section of the policy.
This sets out the following cover:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the value or cost of repair
of any of your own personal possessions (not hired, loaned or entrusted to you) which are
lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed (after making allowance for wear and tear and
depreciation).
The policy also says that receipts will be necessary in the event of a claim.
Miss A has provided both Bulstrad and this service with copies of the receipts she has.
Given some of the items are over 10 years old, I wouldnt expect Miss A to necessarily be
able to provide evidence for all of the things shes claimed for. And Bulstrad hasnt required
any additional evidence from Miss A ahead of calculating settlement. Ive compared a list of
the items Bulstrad has considered and settled against a list of the items Miss A claimed for.
Im satisfied that Bulstrad has considered all of the possessions Miss A included in her claim.
So it appears that Bulstrad concluded Miss A had provided sufficient proof of ownership. I
therefore disagree with our investigator that Miss A needed to provide further evidence to
show she owned the items shed claimed for.
However, as Ive set out above, the contract terms say that Bulstrad can make an allowance
for wear and tear and depreciation. This means that Miss As policy wasnt a new-for-old
contract and Bulstrad doesnt need to pay the cost of replacing as new each item shes
claimed for. Instead, it needs to place her in the same position she was in immediately
before the loss happened. As such, Bulstrad needs to pay Miss A the value of her items at
the time of the loss, taking into account their age and likely value.
Ive looked carefully at the calculation Bulstrad has provided. I can see that it has set out the
price Miss A paid for each item and the number of years shed owned each item, taking into
account wear and tear  which it calculated at an amount of 10% per year. For example, I
can see that Miss A claimed for a top which shed bought in 2009 at a cost of £10  10 years
before the claim and for which shed claimed £10. So Bulstrad calculated that its value at the
time of loss was £1. In my view, a wear and tear deduction of 10% per annum is reasonable
and proportionate.
Bulstrad calculated that its total liability was £464.34. I can see that for some items, Bulstrad
deducted more than 10% per year for wear and tear. If it had deducted 10% per year from all
items, its liability is likely to have been around £45 more  around £510. But it rounded up
the total settlement it offered to £700. So I think that overall, its settlement is a fair one and
represents more than Bulstrads calculated actual liability at the time of loss.
I do sympathise with Miss As position, as I appreciate the cost of replacing her items as new
is likely to be somewhat higher than Bulstrads offer. But as Ive explained, Bulstrad isnt 
contractually required to pay Miss A the value of replacing her items as new. And Im
satisfied that its reasonably calculated settlement in line with the terms of her policy, using a
fair value for wear and tear deduction.
So overall, I currently dont think Bulstrad needs to pay Miss A anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional information they wanted me to 
consider.
Bulstrad didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Ms A asked me to consider the unnecessary prolonging of her complaint over three and a 
half years. She felt that at every step, Bulstrad had placed obstacles in her way. She felt that 
it had provided misleading information to the claims handler and to us. She said she was 
seeking a redress payment for the stress, time, effort and inconvenience shed been put to 
since the complaint was brought to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms A, I still think Bulstrad has made a fair offer 
of settlement and Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that this has been a long and frustrating 
journey for Ms A. And I appreciate that shes disappointed with the settlement shes been 
offered. However, a complaint about Bulstrads initial decision to decline the claim was 
considered separately by our service. The complaint Ive decided relates solely to whether or 
not Bulstrads settlement offer was fair and reasonable. This means I cant comment on 
anything which happened before Bulstrad made that offer. As a point of general principle 
though, I would say that most, if not all, travel insurance policies will only cover losses a 
policyholder cant recover from elsewhere. This means that most travel insurance policies 
will require a policyholder to try and get back any losses from a potentially responsible 
provider or company before an insurer will consider whether any settlement is due.
Because I cant consider Bulstrads initial claims decision, or any correspondence it had with 
Ms A before it made its offer to settle the claim, I have no power to award compensation for 
any potential failings in its handling of it during that period. And as Im satisfied that the 
settlement was calculated fairly and that Bulstrad has made a reasonable and appropriate 
settlement offer, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Bulstrad to pay anything further.
So overall, whilst I sympathise with Ms As position, I find that Bulstrad has made a fair offer 
to settle her claim and Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Bulstrad has already made a fair offer of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman