DRN-1967236
The complaint
Miss M has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Miss M took out the policy in a shop in January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss M says she was pressured into taking out the PPI. After our adjudicator sent his 
assessment, Miss M came back with quite a detailed account about how she wanted to buy 
a bed and that the sales adviser told her she couldnt have the store card without the 
insurance. However, when Miss M first contacted this service, she stated on her PPI 
questionnaire that she had taken out the PPI over the internet. This suggests that Miss M 
doesnt have a particularly clear recollection of the sale, which isnt surprising given how long 
ago it took place.
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form. There is a separate section for PPI which 
is called Account Cover. Within that section it states to only sign in the box if you require 
Account Cover. Miss M has signed in the box to buy the PPI. She has also signed and dated 
the form at the bottom.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss M has said but, on balance, Im not persuaded that 
she was pressured into taking out the PPI. I consider that she would have known from the 
wording and layout of the form that the PPI was a separate product and that she had a 
choice about buying it. It seems to me that Miss M probably decided to buy it, knowing that 
she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
AXA didnt advise Miss M to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Miss M cant remember if shed have received any sick pay from her job. And shes told us 
that she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think that Miss M 
had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss M wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman