DRN-4401641
The complaint
Ms D complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her when she was the 
victim of an investment scam.
Ms D is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Ms D throughout 
this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
Ms D opened a Revolut account on 12 August 2018. On 19 August 2018 her partner 
transferred 12,500 euros into her account. Following what Ms D refers to as an 
unsolicited phone call, on 20 August 2018 she transferred all these funds to a company 
(S) for what she believed to be the purposes of an investment into cryptocurrency via a 
trading company, who Ill refer to as (B). Ms D said B had been presented as a 
reasonably safe short-term investment opportunity that she and her partner wanted 
to get involved in. 
Between 22 and 27 August 2018 Ms Ds partner made five more payments into her 
Revolut account totaling 230,500 euros. On 30 August 2018 Ms D transferred all these 
funds to a company (R) for the purposes of the same investment. 
Between 21 and 29 August 2018 Revolut contacted Ms D via its chat function and 
asked several questions about the source of the funds from her partner. It also asked:
Could you also please clarify this transfer for me [S]
Ms D said: 
its a short-term investment.
Revolut released the payment to S and didnt intervene in the payment to R. 
In February 2019 B told Ms D it was investigating a trading incident. She asked for her 
money to be withdrawn but received no response. Ms D was unable to recover any of 
the funds and realised shed been the victim of an investment scam. 
Ms D contacted her representatives in January 2023, and it contacted Revolut on her 
behalf. It tried to recover the funds, but this was unsuccessful given the passing of time 
and because theyd been international payments. 
Revolut didnt think it was responsible for Ms Ds loss and that it had adhered to the 
scam controls in place in 2018. Revolut said it had questioned Ms D about the source of 
the funds and the payment to S  but had no concerns. It said the Payment to R didnt 
flag as suspicious. It said R was a legitimate company and the payment reference used 
by Ms D made no reference to investment.
Revolut also pointed out that the decision to invest had been a joint one between Ms D 
and her partner, who it understood worked in the investment and finance industry. 
Ms Ds complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Whilst she thought Revolut couldve 
questioned Ms D more about the payments to S and R she didnt think that wouldve 
stopped Ms D proceeding. She also thought Revolut had made reasonable attempts to 
recover the funds. 
Ms D didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said she wouldve 
heeded appropriate warnings from Revolut, and not just relied on her prior knowledge 
and experience of the investment provided by people she knew. She said Revolut 
shouldve been aware of the prevalence of investment scams and asked more about S 
and R  given that large payments had been made into Ms Ds account a few days 
before. And that its failure to ask any questions about the payment to R  a much 
larger payment  was unacceptable. 
Ms D thought Revolut shouldve asked her the following:
Are you aware Blue Trading is not regulated by any major regulatory body?
Are you sure you wish to transfer this very large amount in one transaction?
Why are you requesting one very large transfer to a company based in Hong 
Kong when the first transfer was to a company based in Germany?
If you are paying one company (Blue Trading) why do they have different 
receiving bank accounts?
Your fiancs colleagues may work in finance, but does this mean they 
understand the investment market sufficiently for you to proceed with this  and 
with this very large amount of money?
Ms D also said Revolut shouldve identified the flaws of Bs legal structure, payment 
practice and lack of meeting minimum requirements for retail investors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator, and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that Ms D authorised the disputed payments. The payments were 
requested by her using her legitimate security credentials, and the starting position is that 
Revolut ought to follow the instructions given by its customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, taking account of good industry practice at the time, Ive considered whether 
Revolut shouldve done more to protect Ms D. 
I dont disagree with our Investigator that Revolut couldve asked more questions in relation 
to the payment to S. And arguably, the payment to R  given its significantly high value  
shouldve prompted some questioning from Revolut. Particularly as during that time Revolut 
was interacting with Ms D about the source of the funds. 
But the crux of the issue here is what the line of questioning from Revolut shouldve looked 
like and whether it wouldve made a difference. 
The first point to make is that credible sources, such as the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), only began to warn about crypto investment scams from around mid-2018. Based on 
that, we think firms ought to have reasonably been aware of the operation of crypto scams from around January 2019 to have given more meaningful warnings about the scams. Prior 
to that, we don't think firms couldve reasonably been as familiar with the mechanics of 
crypto investment scams as they are now. 
For example, back in 2018, we dont think businesses wouldve understood that these scams 
involve someone in the background - in this case B  the scammer. So, any questions 
Revolut shouldve asked wouldve likely been around the payments themselves, not about 
B. 
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight the questions Ms D thinks Revolut shouldve 
asked her dont seem unreasonable. But as Ive outlined above, the knowledge of crypto 
investment scams was far less in 2018. Revolut couldnt give Ms D investment advice and 
as the payments were being made to legitimate companies (S and R), I don't think Revolut 
needed to have delved any deeper or wouldve had any obvious concerns. So, whilst I think 
Revolut shouldve done more here, I dont think its fair to suggest its questions to Ms D 
shouldve been as detailed and specific as Ms D believes. 
For the sake of argument and completeness, Ive given careful consideration as to whether 
any further intervention by Revolut wouldve likely made a difference. 
For the reasons I outlined above, I think it unlikely the involvement of B wouldve been 
uncovered during an interaction between Ms D and Revolut. But even if it had, and Revolut 
had suggested to Ms D that she carry out checks  I dont think, on balance, that wouldve 
dissuaded her from proceeding. 
Paying large sums of money internationally for the purposes of an investment and a lack of 
regulation would be seen as high risk. But Revolut couldnt give investment advice to Ms D 
and not all crypto investments are scams  with the prevalence of such scams being far less 
in 2018. Ultimately, Ms D had no reason to question the legitimacy of B or the investment 
until she tried to make a withdrawal in February 2019. 
Ms D has told us she has no recollection of what was said during the unsolicited phone call 
about the investment but has confirmed that before investing she checked Bs website, 
which she found to be informative, robust and genuine. And that shed seen positive online 
reviews. Ms D has also told us that she had access to her online trading account and that 
the security checks B carried out further reinforced its legitimacy. 
Based on all this, I think its unlikely that any checks Ms D undertook into B following 
reasonable advice or warnings from Revolut wouldve given her any obvious cause for 
concern. 
Of even more significance here is the influence of Ms Ds partner and other 
friends/associates whod also invested with B. Its evident that Ms D and her partner made 
an informed decision to invest based on their personal and financial situation at the time. 
Ms D has also told us that her partner had spoken to B about his trades and had been 
provided with a satisfactory explanation. As I understand it, Ms Ds partner, and associates 
who were also investing with B, worked in the investment and finance industry  and shes 
said she trusted them. 
With all that in mind I think it likely, on balance, that any concerns Ms D mightve had off 
the back of any warnings given by Revolut wouldve been alleviated by reassurances 
from her partner and others that the investment was genuine. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Ms D has been the victim of a 
sophisticated and cruel investment scam. And I think Revolut couldve done more to try and protect her. But I dont think any further action or intervention from Revolut was likely 
to have made a difference. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Revolut 
accountable for Ms Ds loss. 
Id still expect Revolut to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds when Ms D alerted it 
to the scam  even though the likelihood of recovery was slim given almost five years had 
passed and the payments were international. Revolut contacted the beneficiaries as soon as 
it knew about Ms Ds loss. But had confirmation that no funds remained. 
Revolut acted promptly here to try and recover the lost funds and so I cant say it 
shouldve done anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman