DRN-3961799
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) treated it in a way that was discriminatory. 
Mr T, who is a director of S, brings the complaint behalf of S.  
What happened
Mr T was unhappy about the way hed been treated by Barclays, saying that it was racist to 
ask about payments from another country that he hadnt received. Mr T was concerned 
about an upcoming payment he expected from the same country. Mr T was also unhappy 
that Barclays held the wrong information about Ss shareholding despite him having supplied 
this to Companies House. Mr T says that hes been left feeling depressed by the situation.
Barclays explained to Mr T that it had to ask questions about certain payments as part of its 
regulatory duty to know your customer. Barclays apologised for holding the wrong 
shareholding information but confirmed that it had updated its records. Barclays offered S 
£50 to apologise for any confusion caused. It also apologised for any mental distress that  
Mr T had suffered and signposted him to an organisation that might be able to help. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Barclays response. He asked this service what payment Barclays 
was referring to and why it was trying to hide the payment. Mr T said he felt attacked by 
Barclays and this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ss complaint be upheld. In summary the investigator 
thought Barclays offer to pay S £50 for any confusion caused about the shareholding 
request was fair. 
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to request further information 
from S after it made a payment to another country. The investigator didnt consider Barclays 
was being racist or discriminatory by asking for further information. The investigator also 
explained that Barclays questions related to S, not Mr T personally.   
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. He said Barclays asked about monies 
received and not a payment made. Mr T said he found it stressful that he had to provide 
Barclays with evidence of the shareholding held by S.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Im sorry to hear about the distress Mr T has felt but as the investigator explained, S is a 
limited company and so its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the upset Mr T has 
felt personally. I can only consider whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably towards S.
Barclays must make sure that it holds up to date information for its business customers, so 
as part of its regulatory obligations, its entitled to carry out reviews. Barclays has provided 
evidence that S made a payment to another country in early 2021. So, I dont consider it was 
unreasonable or discriminatory for Barclays to ask S for further information about its 
business activities including where it conducted its business. Barclays confirms that after   
Mr T provided further information, it had no further concerns. 
Although Mr T says Barclays asked him about payments received from the other country 
rather than payments made, it doesnt change my decision. I think it was reasonable for 
Barclays to ask about Ss business relationship with the other country (including whether S 
received any money from the other country) given there was evidence of a payment made to 
that country. 
As the investigator already explained to Mr T, Barclays questions about Ss business 
activities were raised in relation to S and not Mr T personally. This means I cant find 
Barclays acted in a racist or discriminatory way towards Mr T.
The other aspect of Ss complaint relates to Barclays request for details about its 
shareholding. Barclays explains that it asked for this information because it couldnt see 
details of Ss statement of capital at Companies House. Barclays recognised that its request 
may have been a little confusing so offered S £50 to apologise. I consider this offer to be 
reasonable given the minimal inconvenience that it wouldve caused to S. 
I dont doubt the strength of Mr Ts feelings about the way Barclays has treated him but for 
the reasons outlined above, I consider Barclays offer of compensation is fair so I dont 
require it to pay or do more to put things right for S.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay S £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay S 
£50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman