DRN-2640295
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she didnt get paper statements from Capital One (Europe) plc (Cap 
One).
What happened
Mrs A had a Cap One credit card since 2010. She had a disability which meant she couldnt 
easily use online or mobile banking. Cap One advised late payments to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) in seven months between January and September 2019.
Mrs A complained in February 2020. She said she wasnt getting paper statements  and 
these were needed for her to manage her account. Because of this, she had missed 
payments. Her credit file now showed late payment markers. She referred to a letter from 
Cap One dated December 2018 which said they were going to send her paper statements 
from then on  so she said that confirmed they werent sending them up to then. On a call 
with Cap One in connection with her complaint, Cap One said that she was only getting e-
statements. She wanted her credit file amending to remove the late payment markers.
In April 2020, Cap One said the late payment markers must remain in place as they were 
properly advised to the CRAs. Mrs A was receiving both paper statements and e-statements. 
So, there shouldnt have been a problem in Mrs A understanding her situation. But they 
refunded late payment fees of £132 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said that from a review of Mrs 
As statements, she had made late payments in January 2019, February 2019, March 2019, 
April 2019, June 2019, July 2019, August 2019, October 2019 and December 2019. Hed 
seen that Mrs As account was set up to send out paper statements. And  Cap One had 
also sent three letters to her in 2019 saying her account was in arrears. So  he thought Cap 
One had acted reasonably.
 
Mrs A asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A had a disability which meant she needed paper statements to manage her account. 
She said she wasnt getting these  and she couldnt use online banking to access e-
statements as her disability meant that she couldnt properly view them. She said that the 
letter sent to her by Cap One in December 2018 confirmed she wasnt getting paper 
statements  and therefore Cap One werent sending her information about her account. 
She said that it was no wonder that shed made late payments and fallen into arrears  and 
the late payment markers were therefore unfair.
Mrs A has referred to the fact that she advised Cap One of her disability two years before all 
of this occurred  and she asked for paper statements at that time. She also said that Cap 
Ones letter dated December 2018 admitted she wasnt getting paper statements. 
Ive looked at this letter. It says Wed usually send you an email to let you know (your 
statement is available to view online) but we wont be able to do that anymore as it looks like 
youve not opened a Capital One email recently. This means we may have to switch you 
back to paper statements.. Mrs A says this is proof that Cap One were not sending her 
paper statements at all before this time. But - I dont think this is conclusive evidence that 
was the case  for example, it could be read as Cap One intended to continue to send Mrs A 
paper statements only  and turn off online statements. 
We asked Cap One in detail about how Mrs A received her statement information. Ive 
listened to the call between Cap Ones complaint handler and he says she was getting paper 
statements all along. Equally, there was another call with another complaint handler who 
said she was getting online information only  so I can understand there was some 
confusion in what Mrs A was told. 
But - Cap One told us that she received both paper statements and online statements. This 
had been the case since 2010. We saw Cap Ones records and these confirm this to be the 
case. There is a note on Mrs As file in December 2010 to say this. We asked them if theyd 
had any returned mail  and they hadnt.
Mrs A had made the point that she advised Cap One she had a disability two years 
previously  and they hadnt made a note of this. Ive looked at her file and theres nothing to 
record this fact before 2020. But in any case, I dont think that whether Cap One were aware 
of her disability or not is material  as their records show they were sending paper 
statements from 2010.
Also  Ive seen that Cap One wrote to Mrs A at her address in February 2019, May 2019 
and August 2019  notifying her that she was in arrears. These said, Notice of Sums in 
Arrears - This notice, a Notice of Sums in Arrears, is designed to let you know that your 
account isnt up to date There is help and support available from Capital One or 
independent third parties should you need it to get your account back on track. If youre 
struggling you can give us a call to discuss what options you have available. So  she 
should reasonably have acted then to sort things out  but she didnt.
All lenders, including Cap One, have an obligation to report accurate information to CRAs. 
And in Mrs As case, Im satisfied they have done so.
I can appreciate that Mrs A feels strongly. And so, she will feel disappointed by my decision. 
But having looked all the evidence here, my decision is that Cap One acted reasonably, and 
I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
 
(Continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman