DRN-3763271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly turned down 
their claim and cancelled their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim in 2020 for storm damage to their flat roof. Part of the claim 
included water damage to the inside of their house. Lloyds declined the claim in 2020 as 
there wasnt evidence of a storm and the damage had occurred gradually. 
In 2022 Mr and Mrs C put in a second claim for a leak from their washing machine. They 
claimed for water damage to their floor and the end unit of the cupboards. Lloyds reviewed 
the claim and turned it down under the fraud term in the policy. They said the damage 
claimed for was the same as the damage claimed for in 2020. Lloyds also said Mr C had 
given incorrect information about the damage being claimed for in 2020 and that his version 
of events about how the leak from the washing machine had been repaired had changed. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
Lloyds had based their decision on photos from the claim in 2020 and 2022, along with call 
recordings with Mr C. As the damage claimed for in 2022 appeared to be the same as the 
damage claimed for in 2020, our investigator didnt find Lloyds had acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, they said it was a genuine claim and that there was no evidence 
their washing machine hadnt leaked. They also said this was supported by a witness who 
had confirmed the washing machine leaked. Mr and Mrs C also didnt agree the damage 
claimed for was the same as claimed for in 2020. 
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term Lloyds have relied upon says:
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of 
our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly: 
 provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover 
or cover at a lower premium or on better terms; or 
 provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or 
dishonestly exaggerates a claim; or 
 otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy; 
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we: 
 will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim;
Lloyds have provided evidence which shows the damage claimed for in 2020 is the same as 
claimed for in 2022. I understand Mr and Mrs C disagree that it is, however from reviewing 
the photos taken in 2020 and 2022 Im not persuaded Lloyds have acted unreasonably. I say 
this because the pictures show the same area of flooring and the end cupboard unit with 
damage which appears to be the same. And without anything to show the damage in 2020 
was repaired and this is new damage, Im not persuaded Lloyds are acting unreasonably. 
Lloyds have also highlighted that Mr C said they didnt claim for the damage to the floor in 
2020 and that the version of events around how the washing machine was repaired has 
changed. However, even if didnt consider Mr Cs testimony about these Im still satisfied 
Lloyds havent acted unreasonably from assessing the damaged areas only. 
So while I dont dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs washing machine may have had a leak, Im not 
persuaded the damage claimed for is different to that claimed for in 2020. So Im satisfied 
Lloyds have shown Mr and Mrs C are trying to claim for something theyre not entitled too. It 
therefore follows that Im not going to interfere with Lloyds decision to decline the claim and 
cancel their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman