DRN-1744131
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim to a 
banking payment scam.
What happened
On 12 March 2019, Mr H made a payment of £1,641 from his Barclays current account via 
online banking. He did so on the instruction of who he believed was a travel agent hed 
found online that was selling airline tickets. 
Mr H subsequently discovered hed made the payment to a scammer and contacted 
Barclays on 22 March 2019 to tell it what had happened, and to see if there was anything it 
could do to help. Barclays contacted the scammers bank on 25 March 2019 to see if any of 
Mr Hs money could be recovered but, unfortunately, no funds remained.
Mr H was unhappy with how Barclays handled things, so he complained. Barclays said it 
couldnt be held responsible for the money hed lost since hed willingly made the payment. It 
said it ensured the payment was made using the bank account number and sort code Mr H 
provided and that it wasnt required to check any other details.
Still unhappy with Barclays response, Mr H complained to us. Our adjudicator looked at 
what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They felt Barclays 
hadnt acted unfairly by allowing the payment to be made and didnt think it should have 
done more to help him recover his money. 
Mr H disagreed saying, Barclays should share the blame for what happened to him. The 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr H when he made a payment of £1,641 to a new payee in March 2019, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Firstly, I dont think the payment was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say 
Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mr H was being scammed. The amount Mr H 
authorised wasnt, in itself, suspicious when compared with the general activity on his 
account. And it seems it wasnt unusual for him to set up payments to new payees. Overall, I 
dont think the payment was sufficiently suspicious for me to conclude Barclays ought to 
have identified any potentially fraudulent activity.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by following the 
instructions Mr H gave and sending the money.
When Mr H told Barclays that it had been scammed  ten days after hed made the payment 
 Barclays contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Mr Hs money was still in the 
receiving account and could be recovered. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank confirmed all 
of Mr Hs money had gone. Its not unusual in scams like this for the scammers to withdraw 
funds quickly. 
Although I think Barclays could have contacted the beneficiary bank sooner than it did after 
Mr H contacted it, I dont believe Mr H lost out as a result. I say that because the beneficiary banks confirmed to us that Mr Hs money was withdrawn by the scammer on 12 and 13 
March 2019  several days before Barclays was made aware of what had happened. 
Any further investigation into what happened to the money after it left the scammers account 
wasnt the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Barclays could do to help Mr H at that stage. 
Mr H says Barclays should be forced to reimburse him as there were rules in place making it 
compulsory for banks to repay customers who lost money in scams.
I believe Mr H is likely referring to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This is 
a voluntary code introduced in May 2019 to help prevent such scams and better support 
their victims. Although Barclays has signed up to the code, it doesnt apply retrospectively, 
so I dont believe it would be fair for me to find that Barclays should comply with it in this 
case.
Its unfortunate that Mr H has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays caused him to lose his money. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
compensate Mr H for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman