DRN-2290737
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account.
What happened
Mr C says that fraudulent online transfers, totalling just over £45,000, were made on his 
account between February and December 2017.
 
Mr C says that he was in custody between February 2017 and October 2018. During this 
time he granted his parents Power of Attorney for his account, and only direct debits 
transactions were authorised by him. He was also expecting a large inheritance to be 
deposited by his parents.
 
The transactions that Mr Cs disputing are all online transfers made to Mr Cs ex-partner. 
Mr C explains that prior to being in custody he used his ex-partners phone to view his online 
banking on more than one occasion. And he suggests that his internet banking security 
details might have been saved in his ex-partners phone. Hes also advised of writing his 
internet banking details down on pieces of paper stored in his car and possibly saving them 
in his ex-partners notes on her phone. 
Mr C complained to Santander in June 2019. Santander investigated but said at that point 
they didnt have enough detail about which transactions Mr C was disputing, so wouldnt 
refund them. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Santanders response he complained to our service. On Mr C 
providing more details about the transactions he was disputing our investigator asked 
Santander for their opinion.
 
They thought it most likely Mr C authorised them, but also suggested hed brought the 
complaint out of time according to the Payment Service Regulations 2009. In summary they 
said:
-To log onto online banking customer password must be entered each time and cant 
be auto saved on a device.
-They dont have a record of a Power of Attorney registered. 
-If Mr Cs ex-partner obtained his details via the notes or the pieces of paper Mr C had 
written his details on then Mr C would have failed in his duty to protect his details. 
-The transactions occurred in 2017, but Mr C didnt raise them until June 2019; and
-Mr C made four complaints about his account in 2018, which indicates he was aware 
of his account activity. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint, but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary, he felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently and 
was persuaded they were most likely authorised by Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion. In particular he said:
-His car was sold when he went to prison.
-His security details might have been saved on his ex-partners phone  but that 
doesnt mean he gave her consent.
-He hasnt informed the police about the fraud, because of other ongoing separate 
matters.
-The bank should have contacted him or his parents to authorise the transfers. 
As Mr C didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Santander can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine online security details 
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to conclude that Mr C 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-For Mr Cs ex-partner to carry out the disputed transactions, without Mr Cs consent, 
shed have needed access to his online security details. Mr Cs provided a number of 
explanations for how his ex-partner obtained these details  including his details 
being saved in her phone, written down in the notes or the pieces of paper in his car. 
Santander have explained that online passwords cant be auto saved and need to be 
entered each time. So Ive ruled out this possibility. I think its possible that Mr Cs ex-
partner obtained his details via the notes on her phone or via the pieces of paper in 
his car, but I dont think this is the most likely explanation. I say this as Mr C has 
explained his car was sold prior to his time in custody and he didnt seem confident 
that his details were stored on her phone. 
-Mr C didnt raise his transactions with Santander until June 2019. Hes explained not 
finding out about the fraud until this time. But I find this surprising. I say this because 
Mr C was released from custody in October 2018  this is over a year after the fraud 
started. Id have expected Mr C to have reviewed his account at this point. During 
2018 Mr C raised separate complaints about the overdraft charges on his account, 
indicating he had an understanding about the account balance. And, Mr C explained 
he was expecting an inheritance, which was paid into his account immediately prior 
to the fraud. In summary Id have expected him to question the fraudulent 
transactions much sooner than he did. 
-Mr C didnt contact the police about the fraud. I find this surprising considering the 
large amount of money hes lost and the fact he was aware of the likely fraudster. Mr Cs explained he didnt contact the police due to other ongoing matters, but for the 
reasons Ive already explained I dont find this explanation plausible.
Mr C responded to our investigators view with further points, including questioning why 
didnt Santander contact him or his parents to check theyd consented to the transactions. 
Santander have explained that they hadnt been notified by Mr C about a Power of Attorney 
for his parents  and Ive no reason to doubt this. For this reason I wouldnt have expected 
Santander to contact Mr Cs parents to check the transactions. But Ive considered his point 
about the other transactions and whether I think Santander should have attempted to contact 
Mr C to confirm he consented. But, Im afraid I wouldnt have expected them to do so in 
these circumstances. Its clear there is a change in account activity once the cheque for 
£33,000 was paid into Mr Cs account in April 2017. But all the large payments from this 
point go to an existing payee set up by Mr C prior to his time in custody. So I wouldnt have 
necessarily expected the transactions to trigger Santanders fraud detection systems. Even if 
I thought it should have triggered the banks systems it doesnt change my conclusion. I say 
this because Im satisfied  for the reasons Ive already outlined  that its more likely than 
not Mr C authorised the disputed transactions. And therefore I wont be asking Santander to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman