DRN-4208502
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wont meet the 
costs of flooring in a dining room to match the area of damaged flooring caused by an 
escape of water. Mr J made a claim under his home insurance policy following a leak in his 
kitchen. 
Mr J is being represented by Mr B in his complaint.
What happened
Mr J reported a leak in his kitchen to his insurer, RSA. RSA met the claim and carried out 
repairs, including replacement works to the kitchen floor. 
Mr J wanted RSA to pay 50% toward the costs to replace the dining room floor as although 
undamaged, this matched the kitchen floor. RSA didnt agree. It said the dining room floor 
wasnt a continuation of the kitchen floor, so wasnt part of a matching set. 
Mr J asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. She thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
Mr J didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We take the view that insurers, when they are settling a claim relating to damage to one or 
more parts of a matching set of items, should replace the damaged items and pay half the 
cost of replacing the undamaged items - because that appears to us to be the fairest way to 
resolve that kind of issue.
However, Ive looked at the photos provided of Mr Js kitchen and dining room. They are two 
rooms, separated by an archway where a door used to be - and a wide (doorbar) panel 
divides the flooring between the kitchen and the dining room.
I understand Mr J says the divider is in place because it wasnt possible to find vinyl flooring 
to run continuously across the entire area of the kitchen and the dining room. But this means 
that there was a break in the original flooring between these rooms. And the fact remains 
that there is a clear separation between the dining room and kitchen. So I dont think the 
dining room floor is part of a matching set with the kitchen floor, which was damaged and 
repaired by RSA. This means I dont think RSA is responsible for making a contribution 
toward the replacement of undamaged flooring in the dining room to match the replaced 
kitchen flooring. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman