DRN-2440112
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under his car insurance policy.
All references to Admiral include its appointed agents.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr As car was involved in an incident and a claim was made under his 
car insurance policy with Admiral. 
Due to the nature of the incident, Mr As car was taken to a police station for investigation. 
Admiral told Mr A it needed to establish what damage to the car before it could proceed with 
the claim. And it said it could only do this once the vehicle was released by the police.
Upon release of the vehicle, Admiral instructed an approved repairer (F) to estimate the 
damage to the car. Following Fs report, Admiral had some concerns that not all of the 
damage was linked to the incident, including an engine misfire. Mr A disputed this, so 
Admiral instructed an independent assessor (N) to inspect the car and report on what 
damage had resulted from to the incident.
Ns report concluded that the engine misfire wasnt related to the circumstances of the claim. 
And it also concluded that repairs to the car wouldnt be cost effective. Admiral had some 
further concerns about the damage and said it needed a copy of the police report to decide 
the claim. Admiral also instructed a forensic engineer (B) to carry out further investigations 
on the car.
Mr A was unhappy with Admirals position and made a complaint. He also said he now 
wanted the vehicle back. Admiral acknowledged it couldve been clearer in explaining its 
actions to Mr A, and that there had been a delay in returning the vehicle. Admiral offered     
Mr A £120 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral returned the car but following Bs report it had further concerns about the damage 
caused. It asked Mr A for more information and arranged for the car to be sent to a main 
dealer. Admiral said this was in order to get the electronic control unit (ECU) reading which 
would show the extent of the engine damage. Mr A said he had now sold the vehicle to be 
scrapped for £250.
Mr A was unhappy with the progress of the claim and made a further complaint to Admiral. 
He said he was unhappy with the number of engineer inspections done on the car, the 
questions Admiral had asked, and the overall amount of time taken. In addition Mr A said he 
believed Admiral had caused some of the damage to the car, hadnt kept him informed about 
the claim, and he was unhappy with the service provided by its staff. 
Admiral responded to Mr A. It said it hadnt found any further delays in handling the claim. It 
said it had kept Mr A up to date with the results of the engineer reports, and when Mr A had 
disputed these, it had arranged for an independent inspection. Admiral didnt agree it had 
caused any further damage to the car and said it continued to follow up the police report to 
move the claim forward. Admiral also set out the information it required from Mr A to 
progress the claim. So it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A didnt accept Admirals response and referred the complaint to our service. Mr A added 
that he was unhappy that the claim remained unsettled and he was without the use of a car, 
even though hed been told on more than one occasion his car was a total loss. Mr A said he 
felt Admiral had discriminated against him through the course of the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
found Admirals initial offer of compensation was reasonable for the trouble and upset it 
caused. And they also found Admirals investigations into the claim were fair in the 
circumstances. 
Our investigator also concluded the delays caused werent Admirals fault, as they mainly lay 
with the outstanding police report. And they werent able to show Admiral had caused any 
additional damage to Mr As car through the course of its investigations. Our investigator 
didnt think Admirals actions had discriminated against Mr A.  
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said he understood the claim was due to be settled after the second inspection, and as such 
had already arranged to sell the vehicle for scrapping. He maintained his position that the 
engine wasnt faulty prior to the incident. And he didnt understand why Admiral was willing 
to increase its own costs on the claim with the additional inspections when the car was 
already declared a total loss. In addition Mr A said there were a number of discrepancies 
between his version of events and those as set out by our investigator.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator asked Admiral for its current position before the complaint was passed to 
me. Admiral said the police report remained outstanding, as did the information it had 
requested from Mr A in its final response letter. So it wasnt in a position to validate Mr As 
claim.
Ill first determine whether the evidence Admiral already has about the claim is reasonable 
for it to make an informed decision on the outcome.
At the start of the claim, Admiral told Mr A it needed to consider if the damage being claimed 
for was in line with the circumstances of the incident. And as theres since been a dispute 
about the damage caused by the incident, it says it needs to see the police report in order to 
draw its own conclusions on the claim. This position was agreed with Mr A in January 2020, 
and I can see he filled out the necessary forms to allow Admiral to request the report. Mr A initially told Admiral he was happy for the car to go to a dealer for further investigations, 
but then told it hed scrapped the car. So it wont be possible now for Admiral to complete its 
investigation into the ECU. As such I think it is reasonable for Admiral to rely on other forms 
of evidence to reach a conclusion about how the damage happened.
I appreciate its taken some time for this report to be provided, but based on everything Ive 
seen, I find Admirals position to wait for the report reasonable and proportionate to the 
circumstances of the claim. I can see Admiral has chased the report a number of times and 
would recommend it continues to do so in order to make a decision on the claim. So I wont 
make any further findings in relation to this aspect of Mr As complaint here.
Whats left for me to determine now is Admirals handling of the claim up to the point it 
issued its final response to Mr A. Ill set out my findings below:
Engineer reports
Mr A is unhappy with the number of engineering inspections Admiral requested on his car. 
Ive seen three reports in total which Admiral instructed, and Ill consider the conclusions 
reached by each expert now.
I can see that Fs report mentions the car is beyond economical repair. The report also says 
the engine is mis-firing and there are warning lights on the dashboard. So its clear these 
issues were apparent at an early stage of the claim. However, this report was instructed as 
an estimate for the repairs to the car as a whole and not specifically to consider what 
damage was likely caused by the incident. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral to seek 
further clarity here based on it being a general report.
I can see Admiral specifically instructed N to comment on its concerns about the damage 
and I dont find this unreasonable. Ns conclusions were that the engine damage was pre-
existing. I can see N has also made some comments about some other minor damage being 
unrelated to the incident, but the main point of dispute at this stage seems to be with the 
engine. 
I havent seen any evidence to show Admiral was planning to settle the claim following the 
second engineers report. I can see Mr A was pushing for the claim to be settled promptly, 
but Im not persuaded he was told Admiral was ready to settle the claim.
Ive next considered Bs report which is the most detailed. B also concludes the issues with 
the engine are, in its opinion, unrelated to the incident. And B also raises some concerns 
that other damage is inconsistent with the version of events provided. 
Im persuaded that the expert reports suggest the damage to the car engine is pre-existing. 
And I find the reports raise further questions about how the damage happened. So its 
understandable that Admiral wants more clarity on the events surrounding the incident in 
order to see what damage is covered under the policy. I dont think that this conflicts with the 
information Mr A was given about the vehicle being a total loss, as any settlement Admiral 
makes would be in proportion to the insured damage its liable for.
Mr A has asked why Admiral didnt arrange for the car to be taken to the main dealer sooner. 
I can see from Bs report that attempts were made to download the ECU data but werent 
successful. And so it was following these attempts that the main dealer was suggested. So 
Im satisfied Admiral made reasonable attempts to obtain this information sooner and I dont 
find this delayed the claim unnecessarily. In summary, Im satisfied that the engineer reports Admiral requested were reasonable and 
necessary to help it determine what damage it was liable for. And whilst I acknowledge Mr A 
feels they were an inconvenience, Im not going to make Admiral compensate him for 
carrying out these investigations as I find it was entitled to do so.
Service received
Ive considered if Admiral has been responsible for any avoidable delays in progressing     
Mr As claim. From everything Ive seen, it appears there was a short delay in returning the 
car once Mr A asked for it back, but otherwise I dont find any other examples of 
unnecessary delays. 
Admiral has acknowledged it couldve explained the claims process better at the start of the 
claim and has compensated Mr A £120 for this. I find this fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I wont be requiring Admiral to compensate Mr A further for this.
Mr A has raised further concerns over the lack of a courtesy car, and about the questions 
Admiral asked him to validate the claim. Ive carefully considered his comments against what 
I can see he discussed with Admiral. I can see Mr A asked for a courtesy car early in the 
claim but was told it wasnt available at that stage in line with his policy terms. Im satisfied 
Admiral gave Mr A the correct advice about the courtesy car.
Ive considered the questions Admiral asked Mr A during the claim. I find them relevant to 
the incident and necessary for Admiral to validate the claim. I cant see that Mr A has been 
asked anything unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A says he feels Admiral has discriminated against him given the problems hes 
experienced. I can understand why Mr A feels this way but having looked at all the evidence 
I dont think Admiral has done so. Nor do I think Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I hope this helps Mr A to know that someone independent and impartial has looked into his 
concerns. 
I have no doubt this incident and the ongoing claim has been a very upsetting and stressful 
situation for Mr A. But based on everything Ive seen, I find Admirals current position to be 
reasonable. However, given the length of time thats passed, I would expect Admiral to make 
its claim decision promptly upon receipt of the outstanding evidence. And if Mr A is unhappy 
with Admirals decision, then our service would consider this as a separate matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman