DRN-3900653
The complaint
Mrs T complains HSBC Life (UK) Limited maintained its decision to terminate her income 
protection claim, following a review of new evidence.
What happened
Mrs T is a beneficiary of her former employers income protection policy, underwritten by 
HSBC Life. She was employed as a cashier within a bank and had been unable to work 
since 2017. HSBC Life had accepted the incapacity claim and was paying policy benefits. 
In 2019, HSBC Life said two years had passed since the start of the claim, and so the 
applicable definition of incapacity had changed. The relevant policy terms are as follows. 
Throughout the Deferred Period and for 24 months of Policy Benefit payment, the 
claim in respect of the Member shall be assessed against the Own Occupation 
definition of Incapacity. For this period, the Member must satisfy the Own Occupation 
definition of incapacity in order for any Policy Benefit to be paid to the Policyholder. 
Following 24 months of continual or linked Policy Benefit payment to the 
Policyholder, Incapacity of the Member shall be assessed against the Suited 
Occupation definition.
Suited occupation definition 
Means the Member is:
Unable by reason of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial 
duties of his or her Own Occupation, and  
Unable by reason of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial 
duties of each and every occupation for which they are suited by way of training, 
education and experience, and
Not following any other Occupation.
Training, education and experience considered as part of this definition is that gained 
both prior to, or during, the Members employment with the policyholder.
HSBC Life reviewed the claim against the suited occupation definition of incapacity after 
two years. And said it thought Mrs T could work in a sedentary role, such as call centre 
customer service. So it terminated the claim. 
Mrs T complained about the claim termination, and brought that complaint to this service. An 
ombudsman here issued a final decision which said they didnt think HSBC Life had unfairly 
terminated the claim. 
Since then, Mrs T has gone on to provide HSBC Life with further medical evidence that she 
is still unable to work due to osteoarthritis. And HSBC Life arranged for Mrs T to be reviewed 
by an occupational health consultant. 
Reports from Dr P 
Dr P is a consultant rheumatologist and provided a report following an in person meeting 
with Mrs T in April 2021, and reviewing her medical records. He also provided 
supplementary reports later in 2021.
He said Mrs T had significant osteoarthritis of the knees and would need a bilateral knee 
replacement. He said she was unable to walk any distance, had significant pain in both 
knees and other areas, and was unable to sit still for any length of time. He also commented 
on pain in Mrs Ts hip and back, which he thought was associated with her inability to walk 
with her left leg fully straightened. 
Dr P also referenced Mrs T holding a disabled parking permit, and receiving disability 
benefits. And he said he thought she could not undertake any other occupation due to lack 
of skills and training. 
Dr P concluded On the balance of probability, I do not believe that [Mrs T] will be able to 
undertake any form of employment.. 
Report from Dr W
Dr W is a consultant occupational physician. His report was provided in August 2022, 
following having met with Mrs T in person and reviewing her medical records. 
With regard to Mrs Ts osteoarthritis, he said this was associated with pain and reduced 
function. And she would be likely to find standing for long periods, lifting, carrying, squatting 
and kneeling difficult. He said he thought it likely Mrs T would need knee replacements in the 
future.
Dr W said Mrs T had cited some of reasons she was unable to work being an inability to sit 
or stand for more than ten minutes, pain and fatigue. However he had observed that she 
was able to sit for an hour without discomfort during his meeting with her, as well as focusing 
for the whole session without evidence of fatigue. In terms of pain, he said she exhibited 
pain behaviours on standing and moving around. And whilst pain is subjective, he said 
osteoarthritis is not generally a painful condition at rest. He also noted that Mrs T did not 
believe she was able to work, and had some general anxiety around doing so. And he 
thought this was the main factor in her not making a return to work.  
Dr W concluded Mrs T would not be harmed working in a sedentary role, and she would not 
be harmed by working in a light manual role involving some standing and walking, lifting and 
carrying . 
Following a review of the new evidence, HSBC Life said it still thought Mrs T didnt meet the 
suited occupation policy terms of incapacity.
Mrs T complained to HSBC Life. It said it had relied on Dr Ws report, and thought Mrs T 
would be able to work in a sedentary role. So it maintained it had been correct to terminate 
her claim. Unhappy with HSBC Lifes response, Mrs T brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they didnt think HSBC Life had 
acted unfairly. 
HSBC Life made no comment on the investigators view, however Mrs T disagreed. In 
summary she said:
she worked for the same employer for many years, so had no other work experience and 
so would be unable to undertake a suited occupation without re-training;
the policy terms have changed since 2015, with new terms being issued in 2020, which 
are different; 
Dr W did not examine her physically, whereas Dr P did; 
Dr P is more qualified as he is a consultant rheumatologist; and
this service should appoint a medical specialist to review the medical reports. 
As Mrs T asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say HSBC Life has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly I should say that in this decision I will not be looking at matters this service has 
already considered as part of the earlier complaint. I have focused on the period from when 
Mrs T asked HSBC Life to review the new evidence she supplied in support her claim.
Also, it is not the role of this service to appoint a medical specialist to review evidence. Mrs T 
has asked for an impartial decision on her complaint, and its for me to assess the evidence 
presented, including the opinions of medical professionals who have provided reports. 
Im satisfied the correct policy terms applicable are those in force at the time of the original 
claim, so in this case, these are the terms dated January 2015, which include the any suited 
occupation definition of incapacity after two years. Any later version of the terms in use for 
polices held by Mrs Ts former employer are not applicable in this case. 
Mrs T has provided a series of commentary and evidence in support of her case. If I havent 
commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent considered it. 
Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im concentrating on the 
main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the 
informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
Of the new evidence HSBC Life has reviewed, I think the most significant items are the 
reports from Dr P and Dr W. HSBC Life has placed more weight on Dr Ws report when 
making its decision that the claim should remain terminated. So its for me to decide whether 
or not this was fair. 
Ive noted both doctors operate at consultant level. Dr P specialises in rheumatology and Dr 
W is an occupational health specialist.  Both doctors reviewed Mrs Ts medical records and 
met with her in person.Mrs T has said Dr W did not examine her psychically in the same way as Dr P. I note Dr W 
attempted to do so, but there was difficulty due to her dog becoming aggressive. However 
both Doctors assessed the extent to which Mrs T could extend and flex her knee, and said 
they thought she would need knee replacements in the future. Im satisfied by what Dr W 
has said in his report, that he was able to assess and comment on Mrs Ts functional 
capacity, despite the issue posed by her dog. 
Overall I think it was fair that HSBC Life placed more weight on Dr Ws report, and Ill explain 
why. Dr W observed Mrs T displaying functional abilities Dr P had said she lacked capacity 
for. For example, Dr Ps report said Mrs T couldnt sit for any length of time, however Dr W 
observed Mrs T sitting continuously for an hour during his two hour session with her. And he 
commented on her pain reactions when standing and moving around. So Ive been more 
persuaded by what Dr W has said about Mrs Ts functional capacity for sitting.  Dr W said 
Mrs T was not fit for any form of employment. However Dr W explained functions she would 
be unable to perform or would cause her difficulty, whilst also listing functions she could 
undertake without causing herself any harm. And he linked these conclusions to his 
observations of Mrs Ts abilities during his meeting with her. He also suggested a phased 
return to a working environment, which he said would take into account the de-conditioning 
caused by Mrs T being away from work for a long period, and said the phased approach 
would allow her to regain some fitness. 
Dr W also gave persuasive explanations around Mrs Ts psychological barriers, which he 
thought impacted on her willingness to return to work. And he explained the types of work 
which he thought Mrs T would have the capacity to undertake, considering her osteoporosis.  
The conclusions in Dr Ws report were also broadly in line with a functional capacity 
assessment carried out when HSBC Life previously reviewed the claim. So it follows that I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for HSBC Life to rely on Dr Ws report, and to 
maintain its termination decision.
Mrs T has said she would not be suited to an occupation with a different employer as she 
would not know their systems or procedures. However I think this is to be expected with any 
change of employer, and its not unreasonable that a degree of induction training would be 
needed. Its clear Mrs T had many years of experience working within a bank and dealing 
with customers. So I remain persuaded its not unreasonable for HSBC Life to have 
concluded Mrs T could work in a sedentary customer service role.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman