DRN-1120701
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the treatment of him, by TSB Bank plc (TSB), in respect of a cheque 
he deposited to his account and which he then later looked to make a transfer out against.
What happened
On 28 December 2018 Mr S went to a TSB branch and deposited a cheque for £63,000 to 
his account.
On 31 December 2018 this cheque (everything else being equal) become available to draw 
against.
On 4 January 2019 Mr S tried to transfer £63,000 from his account but was unable to do so.
On 4 January 2018 Mr S called TSB and it told him that it needed proof of his entitlement to 
the £63,000 cheque deposit made on 28 December 2018 before it would allow his requested 
transfer out against it.
After various exchanges between Mr S and TSB (by phone and in person) Mr S was able to 
make his desired transfer out of £63,000  which he did in seven separate transactions over 
two days (9 and 10 January 2019).
Mr S complained to TSB about the above, but it responded to say that it didnt believe it had 
done anything wrong.
Unhappy with TSBs response to his complaint, Mr S referred it to our service.
Ms S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that although 
TSB was entitled to make the enquires it did of Mr S, before allowing him to make the 
transfer out that he wanted to, it could and should have handled the matter better than it did. 
And by handling the matter in the manner that it did, it caused Mr S a level of distress and 
inconvenience for which he should be fairly compensated for.
The investigator concluded that TSB should pay Mr S £75.
TSB agreed with the investigators view. However Mr S didnt. He said that TSB should have 
to pay him between £250 and £500 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
The investigator considered both parties responses to her view but wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind. So the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Its clear Mr S has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr S will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Like the investigator I accept that Mr S was caused a degree of distress and inconvenience 
in TSBs handling of this matter, for example in having to make a number of unnecessary 
calls and branch visits and for being given incorrect, confusing or contradictory information. 
But having had regard to what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that £75 
represents an appropriate sum for TSB to have to pay Mr S. Ive come to this conclusion 
given  amongst other things  the following:
the delay suffered by Mr S was three working days
TSB was entitled, in my view, to make the enquiries that it did, at least initially, given 
its legal and regulatory obligations and given what Mr S account terms and 
conditions allow it to do
Mr S, by his own submission, has suffered no direct financial loss
although Mr S says his employer has refused to advance him money in the future 
(which is what the £63,000 cheque deposit on 28 December 2018 constituted) I cant 
see that such a decision by Mr S employer would have been something that TSB 
could have reasonably foreseen
 
Putting things right
Given what I say above I find that TSB, to the extent it hasnt already done so, must pay      
Mr S £75 in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc, to the extent it hasnt already done so, must pay        
Mr S £75 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman