DRN-3795386
The complaint
Mr A complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) provided him with a car which he 
doesnt believe was of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr A entered into a 60 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The cars cash price was £11,000, it was over four years old and had covered over 67,000 
miles. Mr A was required to pay monthly instalments of £337.
Approximately a week after he received the car, Mr A reported faults with the flywheel, 
clutch, gearbox and air mass sensor. He said the car was repaired under warranty and it 
was returned to him after a few weeks. However he complained issues persisted. Mr A 
requested to reject the car. A further repair was carried out to the turbo, vent pipe and 02 
sensor in January 2021.
In February 2021, an independent inspection was carried out and the engineer couldnt find 
the faults as reported by Mr A, he said the car performed as it should. However the engineer 
said fault codes resided within the diagnostic log which needed further investigation. The 
report concluded due to the time and mileage since Mr A acquired the car, the faults 
wouldnt have been present at supply. 
Since then, Mr A has reported a number of issues with the car such as faults to the electrical 
control unit, actuator, ECR valve, etc. A number of repairs have been carried out, some 
under warranty, some paid by Mr A. 
In July 2021, another independent inspection was carried out. It found a fault with the mass 
airflow meter and a number of fault codes stored in the electrical control unit. It concluded 
the faults wouldnt have been present at supply but they were due to wear and tear given the 
age and mileage of the car. It also said the stored fault codes required further investigation.
In response to Mr As complaint, Moneybarn said they couldnt say whether the faults were 
present at supply as the car had been repaired. Nevertheless they offered the following to 
resolve the complaint:
- Refund the car hire - £238;
- Goodwill payment towards the repairs and diagnostics - £150;
- Refund three instalments, totalling £1,012 (to be applied to the account directly);
- Pay £250 compensation;
- Upon proof of evidence, they would consider costs for taxi rides, diagnostics and 
engine treatment.
Our investigator recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. Based on the evidence, they 
werent persuaded the faults were inherent or developing at supply. They believed the car 
was likely of satisfactory quality. Mr A disagreed.
In October 2022, I issued my provisional decision. I said:
Mr A acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. Moneybarn was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc. 
Mr A was supplied with a used car that was over four years old and had travelled over 
67,000 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered 
notable wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
Issues with the flywheel, clutch, gearbox and air mass sensor
Mr A said immediately upon taking delivery of the car, it experienced faults related to the 
flywheel, clutch, gearbox and air mass sensor. I note Moneybarns comments that there isnt 
enough evidence to prove the same because repairs had been carried out but I disagree.  
Ive seen job cards showing repairs were carried out to these car parts under warranty in 
December 2020. Based on this evidence, its clear there were faults with the car. Given 
these faults were reported within a matter of days of supply, I find its more likely than not 
they were present or developing at supply. So Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory 
quality meaning there was a breach of contract. 
Where this happens, I expect repairs to be carried out and at no cost to the consumer. In this 
case, I can see that happened. Repairs were carried out in a reasonable time frame and 
under warranty so at no cost to Mr A. While these repairs were carried out, Mr A said he was 
left without the car meaning he had to make alternative arrangements including taxi rides 
and hiring cars. Moneybarn agreed to reimburse the cost of the hire cars (£238), make a 
goodwill payment of £150 for the costs towards repairs and diagnostics and pay £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. It also agreed to refund three instalments (totalling £1,012), which 
would be credited to the account as it was in arrears. They also said upon evidence of the 
other expenses such as taxi fares and engine treatment, they would consider it. In light of 
the costs and inconvenience incurred as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality at 
supply, I believe Moneybarns resolution was a fair one. From my understanding, these 
payments and credits to the account have already been made by Moneybarn. 
Faults with the turbo, vent pipe and 02 sensorIm aware following the repair in December 2020, Mr A complained faults remained and he 
raised his right to reject the car. However it appears he arranged further repairs in January 
2021 for the turbo, vent pipe and 02 sensor. 
Based on the job cards, its clear there were further faults. Although I accept that to be the 
case, I must decide whether these faults were present or developing at the point of supply. 
As mentioned, satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
will  depend on a number of factors.
In this case, I must take into account that these were new faults and theres not enough 
evidence for me to safely say they were linked to the earlier faults which made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. Moreover, by the time of the repair in January 2021, I note Mr A had 
covered in excess of 6,000 miles since supply. I consider that to be a significant amount. 
The turbo, vent pipe and 02 sensor are all car parts subject to wear and tear through use. 
Given the number of miles Mr A was able to cover, Im not persuaded the repairs required in 
January 2021 meant the car wasnt durable therefore another reason why it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Im not convinced Mr A wouldve been able to cover that amount of miles 
if these faults were present at supply. For these reasons, Im not persuaded the faults with 
the turbo, vent pipe and 02 sensor were present at supply.
In February 2021, Moneybarn arranged an independent inspection and given the issues, I 
believe that was a reasonable course of action for Moneybarn to take. Ive carefully 
considered the findings of the report. I note the car had travelled over 7,000 miles at the time 
of the inspection. The engineer was unable to replicate the issues, he said the car was fault 
free but reported fault codes within the diagnostic log. 
On that basis, the faults with the flywheel, clutch, gearbox and air mass sensor which I found 
made the car of unsatisfactory, had been resolved by the repair in December 2020 and was 
no longer present by the time of the inspection. Based on the findings of the independent 
inspection, theres no indication the repair in December 2020 had failed. So while I accept 
Mr A requested to reject the car, I cant say Moneybarn acted unfairly by not agreeing to it as 
there was no evidence the car remained of unsatisfactory quality. This is further supported 
by Moneybarns contact notes in March 2021 which suggest Mr A told them that the repairs 
had fixed the issues but he wanted compensation for his out of pocket expenses. 
Other issues
I understand a couple of months later in May 2021, Mr A reported further issues as the 
engine management lights were displaying. Moneybarn arranged a second independent 
inspection in June 2021. By that time, the car had covered over 28,000 miles since supply 
and it had been in Mr As possession for around seven months. The engineer found a fault 
with the mass airflow meter and there were fault codes stored but it concluded it was due to 
wear and tear. 
I note Mr A disagrees with the findings of the two inspection reports but the engineers are 
qualified car mechanics who have the knowledge and expertise to inspect cars so its 
reasonable for me to rely on their findings. Here, two separate and independent engineers have examined the car at different points in time. For these reasons, Im persuaded by their 
findings.
Mr A has provided comments from a repair garage about the wiring loom and diesel entering 
into it via the fuel pressure sensor. However it appears this information was provided in July 
2021 and the car had already covered a significant amount of miles at that point (over 
28,000 miles since supply) and it had been in Mr As possession for some time. So Im not 
persuaded these comments meant these faults were present at supply and it meant the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Based on the timeline of events and whats happened, if the car remained of unsatisfactory 
quality, Im not convinced Mr A wouldve been able to cover the number of miles that he did. 
Overall, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied due to the faults with 
the flywheel, clutch, gearbox and air mass sensor. However Im satisfied these were 
successfully repaired in December 2020. Moneybarn has proposed a resolution which I 
consider to be fair in the circumstances so I wont be asking them to reject the car or do 
anything further to put things right. In relation to the other faults with the car, I consider them 
to be as a result of wear and tear through use.
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with my outcome and based on the information and 
evidence hes provided, its clear he feels strongly about the matter. Im sorry to hear the car 
hasnt performed as he expected but for the reasons outlined above, I find Moneybarn has 
done enough to put things right. 
Response to the provisional decision
 
Moneybarn didnt provide a response. Mr A disagreed with the findings, in summary he said:
- The provisional decision failed to consider the evidence that the car broke down 
immediately after it was supplied due to the flywheel, gearbox, clutch, etc;
- The car was in and out of garages for repair and he had to use taxis and hire cars to 
commute to work;
- He provided evidence from the warranty company about the faults and the repairs 
that were carried out under warranty;
- He had asked to reject the car and/or for a replacement but Moneybarn never 
responded;
- The turbo leaked into the wiring system and this will need to be replaced, he has 
provided confirmation of the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr A for his further comments and I understand hes disappointed by my findings. I 
can assure him that Ive carefully taken into consideration all the information and evidence 
hes provided along with that provided by Moneybarn. Having considered Mr As response, I 
dont consider he has provided any new information or evidence that would change my 
overall outcome. Ive already addressed the points hes raised in my provisional decision so I 
wont repeat them again here. On the basis I dont consider Ive been provided with any further information to change my 
decision I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman