DRN-4026307
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about the length of time taken by 
Nationwide Building Society to complete a transfer. 
C is represented by one of its directors, Mr J. 
What happened
Mr J says:
On 20 August 2021, he gave the appropriate notice to transfer £8,000 out of Cs 
Business Saver account to Cs nominated account, which was at another bank. The 
notice period expired on 4 October 2021.
He told Nationwide he needed the money to take advantage of seasonal advertising 
for Cs business. 
When the money didnt arrive in October, he chased several times. He also 
answered all the questions Nationwide asked. 
The money didnt arrive in the requested account until 10 November 2021. 
The delays had caused C to lose £20,000 of revenue, as it had planned to buy 
seasonal advertising slots, which were no longer available by the time the funds 
arrived. 
Cs business was highly seasonal as it was tied to events that came around 
infrequently. Christmas was also a crucial time. 
Nationwide says:
On 7 April, they wrote to Mr J with some questions about C.
Mr J didnt reply and they chased again in May, warning him theyd put temporary 
restrictions on withdrawals if he didnt respond. 
They chased several more times, including on 4 October, when the £8,000 was due 
to be transferred. 
On 5 October, Mr J supplied the information requested on C. They went back to him 
with one further question, regarding Cs trading address, which he clarified on 
7 October. 
They use a third party bank to make their payments (the agent bank). Nationwide 
instructed their agent bank to send the payment on 8 October. 
They chased it on 12 October, when Mr J told them it had not arrived. 
On 20 October, their agent bank asked for some more information, as it was carrying 
out some checks. They supplied this promptly the next morning. 
They chased their agent again on 28 October. 
Funds were paid on 9 November. 
They accepted that their agent bank had delayed matters and had paid 
compensation of £100 in recognition of this. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and concluded that Nationwide, or 
its agent bank, was responsible for most of the delay. However, he said that C hadnt 
provided evidence of the lost revenue. In the absence of this, he thought £100 for the 
inconvenience caused by the delay was fair.  
Mr J disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
matter again. He has provided various pieces of evidence in support of Cs claim for 
£20,000. Over the course of several emails, he made the following points: 
Cs last advertising campaign, tied to a comparable seasonal event, had yielded 
£16,750. As this had been ten years previously, given inflation and the unique nature 
of the current event, £20,000 was the minimum likely revenue, of which Nationwide 
had deprived C.  
Nationwide had fed him fake information throughout the period when the money was 
delayed. 
They also hadnt paid C £100, despite what they claimed. 
If Nationwide had been truthful about the likely length of the delay, he would have 
made arrangements to raise the funds elsewhere. 
9 November was well beyond the cut off for Christmas advertising campaigns.  
C had years of experience in its highly specialised field, enabling it to predict likely 
revenue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I havent been persuaded that a higher 
award is warranted. So Im not going to ask Nationwide to take any further action. Ill explain 
why below. 
First, a small portion of the delay (from 4 October until 8 October) was caused by Mr J not 
having provided some information previously requested by Nationwide under an account 
review. Mr J now disputes having received any previous requests for this information, 
although I note that in his 5 October email providing the answers required, he apologised for 
not being able to provide the information you requested in your email of August 20. This 
suggests he did receive at least one previous email about it. 
In any case, its clear that this four day delay was a fairly small proportion of the overall 
problem, so I dont think it has a major bearing on the outcome. From 8 October onwards, I think its clear that the delay was no fault of Mr Js. Nationwide 
has given some contradictory explanations for the amount of time taken. But I think its 
evident that there were some communication problems between Nationwide and their agent 
bank. My conclusion is that Nationwides service was poor and the transfer should have 
been completed much sooner. 
That brings me to the question of compensation. At this point, it may help if I explain that as 
C is the party complaining, I cant make an award for any distress caused to its directors. 
That doesnt mean that I dont believe the directors were distressed. Its simply that the 
complainant is a limited company and limited companies cant suffer distress. What I can do 
is make awards for financial losses or for inconvenience. 
Mr J has provided several pieces of evidence in support of his claim for £20,000 of losses, 
including bank statements, screenshots of previous orders and copies of proposed and past 
advertisements. Ive looked at these carefully. However, none of the evidence provided 
shows me that the delay caused C to lose £20,000. 
I note that the bank statements are from a different bank account in a different name from C. 
But even if I assume that the entity named was carrying on equivalent activity to that of C 
now, evidence of credits received in 2011 doesnt persuade me of losses made in 2021. 
Neither do screenshots of orders received, especially with no numbers attached.  
Ive looked at Cs accounts at Companies House, but these show no uplift in profits for the 
relevant period when C says a comparable event benefited C. In any case, even if I could 
see proof of a bounce in profits for the previous period, it wouldnt prove that the delay 
caused by Nationwide deprived C of similar (or greater) profits in 2021. 
Mr J says that 9 November was well past the cut-off for Christmas advertising. This seems 
plausible. But I think it likely that Mr J would have known what the deadline was when he 
requested the transfer. So there must have been a point when he realised he needed to 
make alternative arrangements if C was going to place its advert in time. I appreciate that 
Mr J says he kept expecting the money to arrive  and that Nationwide encouraged him in 
this belief. But this service does expect that those encountering problems will take 
reasonable steps to mitigate their losses. So I would expect Mr J to have found the money 
elsewhere rather than leave C to miss what he says was a once-in-a-decade opportunity.  
I know Mr J believes Nationwide fed him (and us) fake information. But I dont believe this 
was the case. There may have been some confusion amongst their staff, and I agree that 
their explanation in the response to Cs complaint is unclear  but I dont think there was any 
deliberate attempt to mislead. In any case, it is not my role to punish the business. 
I realise that this event has been frustrating and disappointing for Mr J. He has been running 
his business for some time and feels he has missed a never-to-be-repeated chance. But he 
has been given many opportunities to provide clear evidence of Cs losses and he has not, 
in my opinion, done so. In the circumstances, it would not be fair to direct Nationwide to pay 
the compensation sought. 
I have seen evidence that Nationwide sent C a cheque for £100 in compensation in 
December 2021. Mr J has told us that this was never received, so Nationwide has now 
cancelled that cheque and reissued a new one. In the absence of any evidence of losses, I 
think this is sufficient to compensate for the inconvenience caused by the delay. So Im not 
going to ask Nationwide to do anything more. My final decision
I uphold this complaint but I am not making an award, as I consider Nationwide Building 
Society has already done enough to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman