DRN-2952574
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unreasonably increased
her premium for her motor policy because she was medically retired.
  
What happened
Mrs P had been insured with Advantage for two years. In March 2019 it invited her to renew
her policy with her new premium being £569.80 at £47.48 per month. She looked on online
and saw that Advantage were offering a policy for £393.34 so £32.76 per month.
So, she cancelled her policy and took out this one instead. Advantage said because of
different information being imputed online through quotations it asked her to clarify her
occupation. Mrs P confirmed she was medically retired and that she hadnt work since
2008 due to her medical conditions.
Advantage then said this increased her premium on her new policy by £237.64 for the year.
Mrs P said Advantage never told her this initially but simply took the revised monthly
premium of £61.06 from her bank account. When she queried it, it explained that it had sent
her an email explaining and that it had no contact numbers for her on file.
Mrs P complained but Advantage wouldnt change its stance, so she cancelled her policy on
7 June 2019 and Advantage provided a pro-rata refund of £35.43. And then she brought her
complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. Mrs P disagreed so her
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 July and I said the following:
First, I want to thank Mrs P for her patience and forbearance whilst I investigated 
this. Im sorry it took so long but its a delicate issue and it required considerable 
investigations. I understand and appreciate my decision will disappoint her, but I am 
hopeful the explanation makes it clearer for her to understand.
There are two issues here which I shall deal with separately the first being the 
premium increase and the second being Advantages communication with Mrs P over 
the premium increase.
As regards the premium increase, the essential question in this case from Mrs Ps 
point of
view is whether its fair for Advantage to increase her premium because shes retired 
due to health/medical reasons as against retired simply meaning she no longer 
needs to be in employment or has reached state retirement age and has also 
decided to stop working. Whats confusing and what Advantage has not fully 
explained is how given Mrs P said she was medically retired on the online application 
how the original quote was then generated only to be increased later. Regardless of 
this issue, I can see from Advantages underwriting criteria that it treats all its 
customers the same if they disclose their occupation status as being retired due to 
disability/medical reasons.
From what Mrs P said she was told, it appears the adviser she spoke to thought this 
was because people on benefits might not be able to keep up premium payments. 
Ive not heard the actual evidence of this on the call recordings, but the adviser did 
confirm people on state benefits are rated differently as Mrs P has been, by what 
appears to be a premium increase.
When faced with such a premium increase, Ive considered whether Advantage has 
carried out any risk assessment, has it identified a risk, is it able to show that it is fair 
and reasonable (and proportionate) to that risk given the consumers circumstances.
In this case Advantage has provided statistical evidence that there is a higher risk for 
those drivers in the category of being medically retired than simply retired. And as 
this is based on Advantages own claims data over a period of one year, Im satisfied 
its from a reliable source on which it is reasonable to rely. And whilst that may seem 
unfair, the law says Advantage is entitled consequently to rely on the exception 
provided by the Equality Act 2010 in schedule 3 (s.21) which says the following:
Disability
21(1) It is not a contravention of section 29, so far as relating to disability
discrimination, to do anything in connection with insurance business if
(a)that thing is done by reference to information that is both relevant to the
assessment of the risk to be insured and from a source on which it is 
reasonable to rely, and (b)it is reasonable to do that thing.
The Equality Act statutory code of practice for Services says (in relation to the 
exception in schedule 3 of the EQA):
This exception permits anyone involved in insurance business to 
discriminate against a disabled person in any aspect of selling insurance or 
writing the terms on which a disabled person can be insured against certain 
risks, provided such treatment is reasonable and based on relevant, current 
information from a reliable source.
Obviously, I must take account of the relevant legislation here and that includes the 
Equality Act 2010, presuming that Mrs P is disabled as defined by the Act. But its 
not my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not under this Act, as 
thats a matter for the courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances here, in this complaint by Mrs P. I have to a take a number of things 
into consideration including relevant legislation and industry practice. So, although 
its for the courts to decide if Advantage breached the Equality Act, Im required to 
take it into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in Mrs Ps complaint.
Insurers are entitled to set the premium they wish to charge for accepting the risks for 
which they are covering. Those calculations take into account a large range of 
factors, many of which are based on the claims experience of the insurer. Insurers 
also give weightings to certain issues which is considered as part of their 
underwriting criteria.
Its also not our role to tell an insurer what criteria it should use when setting the 
premium amount of a policy, or which weighting it should apply to any issue. Those 
are commercial business decisions for each insurer to make. But we can consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when calculating the premium for 
individual customers given their individual circumstances.
In this particular case, Advantage can essentially differentiate between Mrs P and 
other policyholders, because of the higher risk she presents due to the fact that she 
is medically retired. And because Advantage has shown through its underwriting 
criteria that it treats all people in the same situation as Mrs P the same, it follows that 
Im not persuaded that Advantage has acted unfairly in the pricing of Mrs Ps 
premium once it was aware that she was medically retired and not just retired.
Ive also decided in the particular circumstances of this complaint, that issues 
concerning the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 is 
not that relevant but it remains the case that Advantage always needs to show a lack 
of reasonable care on the part of Mrs P before premiums should be altered.
Mrs P cancelled her policy and found an alternative one and she obtained a pro-rata 
refund. So, her financial loss was minimal.
Turning now to the communication of the premium increase by Advantage. It has 
shown us it sent her the required notification so that does mean the reason Mrs P 
didnt receive it cannot, be likely, to be Advantages fault, consequently.
But Mrs P did repeatedly have to give Advantage her telephone number throughout 
her complaint and communications with them over it and it seemed her details 
werent properly updated. That caused Mrs P unnecessary inconvenience for which I 
consider Advantage should pay her £100 compensation.
Neither Mrs P or Advantage responded.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change the outcome of my provisional decision.
My final decision
So, for these reasons and in the very particular circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint, Im 
upholding this complaint in part.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs P the total sum of £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman