DRN-3723975
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way ReAssure Ltd dealt with her application to cash in her 
pension plan held with them. 
What happened
Ms M approached ReAssure in August 2020 to request the necessary forms to allow her to 
access her pension. ReAssure confirmed theyd received the completed forms in the first 
week of September 2020. Ms M had also enclosed an original deed poll to evidence her 
previous change of name. This was later returned, damaged. 
ReAssure then wrote to Ms M at the beginning of October, but addressed it to her previous 
name, questioning whether the deed poll was sufficient evidence to prove her change of 
name. Ms M responded to say it was, and ReAssure then changed their mind, accepting the 
deed poll validity. 
In the middle of October 2020, ReAssure then phoned Ms M to say that the National 
Insurance (NI) number shed quoted on her application form didnt match their records. Ms M 
asked why this wasnt picked up on receipt of her form at the beginning of September, but no 
explanation was provided. Ms M provided the correct NI number. 
On 25 October 2020, ReAssure wrote to Ms M to say theyd pay her £150 compensation for 
the delays shed experienced, and would pay this into a bank account with T bank. Ms M 
immediately contacted ReAssure to advise shed never had an account with T bank, and 
instead asked them to make the payment into the account shed recorded on her application 
form. ReAssure then only paid £100 but wrote to apologise and said theyd be paying the 
£50 balance shortly - which they then did. And on 26 November 2020, ReAssure paid Ms M 
her pension as a lump sum (which had been calculated as at 23 October 2020) of £9,121.25. 
Ms M contacted ReAssure to explain she wasnt happy with £150 compensation, as that 
wouldnt even be enough to replace her damaged deed poll. However, ReAssure felt £150 
was a fair compensation for the delays experienced. So, Ms M brought her complaint to us, 
explaining she remained unhappy with the delays experienced and believes she may have 
lost out financially  as her pension may have been worth more had her application been 
processed more quickly.
One of our Investigators upheld Ms Ms complaint. He said the £150 was fair compensation 
for the delays experienced up to the point the offer was made, and it covered the cost of 
replacing the damaged deed poll. But he felt Ms M has experienced further delays in 
receiving her pension payment  after the £150 offer was made by ReAssure  and she 
should be paid a further £100 compensation for this. He felt that, had ReAssure adhered to 
their internal processing standards (their SLA)  theyd told us they aim to process an 
application such as this within ten working days  Ms M would have received her pension 
payment up to three weeks earlier than she did. 
ReAssure was unhappy with this outcome. They thought the £150 theyd already paid was 
sufficient compensation  so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on this complaint on 5 September 2022, indicating Id be 
upholding it. In that PD, I said as follows:
ReAssure have already accepted they caused delays and didnt process Ms Ms application 
as quickly as they should have. They offered £150 compensation for delays and 
inconvenience caused by them and made that offer on 25 October 2020. So, I think it 
reasonably follows that offer was made to compensate for delays and inconvenience up to 
that date only. And, I think that offer represents fair compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience Ms M experienced up to 25 October 2020, together with covering the cost of 
the deed poll replacement.
But there were further delays in making the payment to Ms M after this date as well. 
ReAssure communicated the wrong bank account details, meaning Ms M had to contact 
ReAssure to point out the correct bank details which were already in their possession  on 
the original form shed provided. Further exchanges took place, and in one ReAssure even 
advised Ms M they could find no sign of her policy. And Ms M was only paid her pension 
funds on 26 November 2020  over a month after ReAssure had told Ms M theyd prioritise 
the transaction and offered the £150 compensation. 
I think its fair and reasonable for ReAssure to pay further compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by these further delays. And I agree the amount suggested by our 
Investigator, £100, represents fair compensation for these. 
 
I also need to address whether Ms M lost out as a result of the delays in making the transfer, 
which is something our Investigator didnt consider. ReAssure received Ms Ms completed 
forms on 7 September 2020. ReAssure have said they aim to process such transactions 
within their ten working days SLA  this is assuming all of the information provided is correct. 
Here, the validity of the deed poll was initially questioned by ReAssure, but they later 
accepted it was sufficient proof of Ms Ms change of name. These exchanges contributed to 
the delays in processing the application  which I think, given the deed poll was ultimately 
accepted, ReAssure were responsible for. There was also an issue with the NI number that 
Ms M provided, which was clarified in a subsequent phone call. I dont think this small delay 
was caused by ReAssure. So, factoring in the above  and mindful of ReAssures ten-day 
SLA  I think Ms Ms transfer should have taken place on 22 September 2020. This is 11 
working days after the forms were received  Ive allowed an extra day for the NI issue to be 
resolved by phone call here. And ReAssure have now told me the value of Ms Ms plan on 
that day was £9,136.43.
However, ReAssure paid Ms M a slightly smaller sum - £9,121.25 - on 26 November 2020. 
So, I think Ms M lost out by a small amount - £15.18 (£9,136.43 less £9,121.25) - and was 
also paid nearly two months later than I think she should have been. In such circumstances, 
I think ReAssure should also pay Ms M a sum to make good on the losses she experienced 
as a result of the payment delay. Whilst the amounts involved here are modest, I think its only fair that Ms M is put back in the 
position she would have been in had the transfer been completed on 22 September 2020  
the date I think it reasonably should have been. 
I then set out the redress that I felt ReAssure should pay Miss M. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms M responded, and said she had nothing further to add. ReAssure have not responded. 
On that basis, Ive no reason to depart for the above provisional outcome.
Putting things right
So I think ReAssure needs to do the following: 
-Pay Ms M 8% simple interest on £9,121.25, for the period between 22 September 2020 
(the date I think the sum should have been paid) and 26 November 2020 (the date the 
sum was paid).  
-Pay Ms M a further £15.18, together with 8% simple interest on that sum for the period 
between 22 September 2020 and the date of payment. 
-Pay Ms M a further £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by delays 
after 25 October 2020.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint and require ReAssure Ltd to calculate and pay Miss M the 
amounts Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman