DRN-2878497
The complaint
 Mr R complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
TFS Loans lent Mr R a loan of £10,000 on 11 July 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded TFS Loans did not carry out proportionate checks and if it had 
done so it would have seen that Mr R couldnt afford the loan. I agree with the investigators 
findings for these reasons:
oTFS Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr R. 
It says it asked him about his income and expenditure, requested a screen shot of his 
bank account to verify his income as well as conduct a credit search. It also used 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate his living costs.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 48 monthly instalments of around £385 and Mr R 
asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at TFS Loans calculations, I 
can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr R would have enough 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But the credit search results that it 
had in front of it showed credit impairment that I think ought to have given TFS Loans 
concerns. There were two defaulted accounts, one of which wasnt settled and had 
an outstanding balance left to pay. There were also two accounts that had been 
flagged for debt management and one for an arrangement to pay. TFS Loans did ask 
questions about Mr Rs defaults and also recorded down what Mr R said about a debt 
management plan. But I think due to the size of the loan and the length of the term, it 
ought to have been concerned about what it saw and what it was being told, at least 
enough that it shouldve prompted it to want to find out more.
oTFS Loans should have done more to ensure that Mr R could repay the loan 
repayments over the length of the loan term. This I think, should have included a 
complete review of his finances including breaking down and verifying his 
expenditure. As a responsible lender it ought to have done this once it had carried 
out its initial checks and seen the results from its credit check. I cant see that it did 
this or verify any of Mr Rs expenditure and so I dont think its checks went far 
enough. So, as I dont think it did enough, I need to consider what it would have seen 
if it had carried out proper checks.
oMr R has provided copies of his bank statements from around 3 months before and 
then leading up to the start of the loan. Ive relied on this to give me an indication as 
to what TFS Loans would have seen, as I think his bank statements provide a clear 
picture about his actual financial circumstances at the time. I agree with our 
investigator, I think Mr R had more expenditure than TFS Loans had assessed him to 
have and I dont think the loan was affordable for him, based on what his bank 
statements have shown me. There were also clear signs that he was using payday 
loans to make up the shortfall in his finances. On 9 June 2018 he took out a payday 
loan for £275, on 14 June 2018 he took out another one with a different lender for 
£300 and then he took out a 3rd payday loan 2 days later for £100. It looks to me from 
seeing this that he was borrowing to fill a gap in his finances. All three of these 
payday loans, taken out not long before Mr R applied to borrow £10,000 from TFS 
Loans, were not declared by him in the affordability assessment that it carried out. 
So, when I consider this all together, I think if TFS Loans had carried out further 
checks it would have seen that Mr R was having problems managing his finances 
and that the loan repayments were not affordable and not sustainable over the 4-year 
loan term.  
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. TFS Loans now needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
 While I think TFS Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr R, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £10,000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, TFS Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Mr R, if it exceeds the capital amount of £10,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr R, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr R credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, TFS Loans should treat Mr R fairly and look to 
arrange a payment plan that is affordable for him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. TFS Loans must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman