DRN-3320224
The complaint
Mr W complains that a long term holiday product was misrepresented to him and that he has 
not received the services he purchased. Because he paid for the product using a credit card 
issued by Santander UK Plc, he says that he has a claim against it in the same way that he 
has a claim against the seller. 
Mr W has been represented by a claims management business, and the purchase was a 
joint one with his wife. Where I refer to his evidence and submissions, therefore, I include the 
evidence and submissions of his representatives and his wife.
What happened
In or about March 2011 Mr W agreed to buy membership of Club Infiniti, a points-based 
holiday club. Members could buy points which they could then exchange for holiday 
accommodation. He bought 40,000 points at a total cost of £6,995. Payment was made with 
a credit card issued by a different provider, not Santander. 
In October 2013, following a sales presentation, Mr W bought a further 20,000 Club Infiniti 
points at a cost of £4,000. He paid using his Santander credit card. 
In both cases the seller of the membership and the points was Leisure Dimensions Limited, 
a company registered in Ireland. Mr Ws credit card statement and Santanders records 
indicate that payment was made to Leisure Bookings Albufeira. 
In 2017 Mr W contacted Santander. He said that he had been mis-sold the holiday product. 
He had been subjected to pressured sales techniques. He had been told that the holiday 
points could be sold, but was later told that he could only exit the membership by buying a 
new product. He said too that the membership was not legal under Spanish law and that it 
was an implied term of the contract that it would be legal.
Mr W said that, because he had paid using his Santander credit card, he could bring a claim 
under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Santander did not accept Mr Ws claim. It said that the card payment had been taken by a 
third party and section 75 did not therefore apply. 
Mr W referred the matter to this service. Our investigator accepted that the payment 
arrangements were such that section 75 could apply. He was not persuaded however that 
Mr W had shown he had a valid claim against Leisure Dimensions Limited and so did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr W did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. 
Santander says however that the credit here was not provided under arrangements it had 
with the supplier, Leisure Dimensions Limited. Rather, it was provided under pre-existing 
arrangements with Leisure Bookings Albufeira. 
Section 75 can however apply where the supplier and the business which takes payment are 
associates of each other (defined in section 184 of the Consumer Credit Act). A company 
is an associate of another if one controls the other or if they are both controlled by the same 
people or by associates of those people.
The precise identity of Leisure Bookings Albufeira is not clear. The investigator thought 
however that it was a reference to a subsidiary of the selling company - making it an 
associate. Santander says it no longer has full records of the payment in 2013 so cannot 
identify it by reference to a merchant number. Mr W said there was a common director, but 
he had resigned by 2013. 
In my view, however, the most likely explanation is that Leisure Bookings is simply a trading 
style of Leisure Dimensions Limited. If it were a separate company, it would be registered 
somewhere and would be identifiable. If it were a subsidiary of Leisure Dimensions Limited, 
it would be listed in that companys annual report, as a number of other subsidiaries are.
I have therefore approached this case on the basis that payment was taken by the supplier 
and have considered Mr Ws claims about Leisure Dimensions Limited. 
Legality of the agreement
Mr W says that agreements of the type he entered into have been declared illegal by the 
Spanish Supreme Court. My understanding is that the judgment relates to timeshare 
contracts which do not clearly identify the accommodation which is the subject of the 
contract and to timeshare contracts in perpetuity. 
Mr W says that his contract is governed by Spanish law. A contract which concerns 
immoveable property is, generally and in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, 
governed by the law of the place where the property is situated. There was no specific immoveable property linked to this contract, however  either in Spain or anywhere else. It 
was a contract for the purchase of holiday points, not a timeshare. 
Mr W has not provided a full copy of the contract, so I do not know if it included a governing 
law clause. I shall assume it didnt. It was however an agreement between an Irish company 
and two consumers resident in England. It was written in English and priced in sterling. As a 
general rule, the governing law of a consumer contract without a choice of law clause is the 
law of the consumers residence  unless it concerns real property. Its likely therefore that 
this contract was governed by English law; in any event, there is no reason to think that 
Spanish law applied. The only link to Spain is that the contract was signed there; the 2011 
contract however was signed in Portugal. It would be surprising if the two contracts, which 
were virtually identical and involved the same parties, were subject to different laws, 
depending on where they happened to be executed.  
If, as I believe was the case, the contract was governed by English law, it was covered by 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. I 
have not seen anything however to suggest that it did not comply with those regulations  
not least because I havent been provided with the full terms.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr Ws evidence about what he was told before he entered into the contract is, in my view, 
vague and not persuasive. And there is no evidence that it was untrue. His submissions 
include, for example: 
The Timeshare Owner advised Our Clients of the product they were purchasing and those 
claims do not match the product they received.   
It is however clear from page 1 of both contracts that Mr W was buying Points in Club Infiniti 
 upon and subject to the terms and conditions stated on this document and in the attached 
schedules. Indeed, Mr Ws own submissions acknowledge that   it is clear from the 
documents provided that the product lasts for a period in excess of 50 years. In addition, 
there is no fixed accommodation nor a fixed time to take the same.  
If the documents were clear about these matters, I do not believe that Mr W can properly 
claim that he was misled about them. 
Mr W says too that he was led to believe that holiday properties would be readily available 
but that it has been difficult or impossible to make bookings in high season. That of course is 
inconsistent with his belief that he was buying a timeshare  where availability of a specific 
property in the same week or weeks every year would be guaranteed. But it is also not 
supported by any evidence of holidays that he has been able to book or of unsuccessful 
attempts to book accommodation.  
I should note as well that the contract financed by Santander appears to have been identical 
to that which Mr W entered into in 2011  save of course that the number of points bought 
and the price were different. Most of the allegations of misrepresentation appear to relate to 
the first contract. Any misrepresentation claim in respect in respect of the second contract 
needs to be considered in the light of Mr Ws knowledge at the time  including of course 
knowledge he had through his existing club membership. The only specific allegation in respect of the second contract appears to be that it had an 
expiry option after 10 years. That may of course be true; I cant however safely conclude that 
it isnt, since it was less than 10 years ago that the contract was concluded. 
By the time Mr W agreed the second contract, he had been a member of the Infiniti Club for 
more than two years. He says that he was already concerned by some aspects of the 
membership and what he had been told in 2011. Nevertheless, he increased his points 
holding when he must have known about many of the issues he raised with Santander 
around six years after his first purchase. 
I stress that it is not for me to say whether Mr W might have a valid claim against Leisure 
Dimensions Limited. My role is to determine how his complaint about Santander should be 
resolved. My current view is however that it would not be fair to uphold it. I will however 
consider any further evidence and arguments that either party  but in particular Mr W  may 
wish to submit.    
Mr W did not accept my provisional decision. He did not however provide any further 
documentary evidence, despite my observation that I had not been provided with a complete 
copy of the contract for the purchase of Club Infiniti points. His representatives said, in 
summary:
It was only when they were on holiday in Portugal that Mr and Mrs W found out that the 
points they originally bought had no trade-in value, contrary to what they had been told 
when they bought them.
Their sons name had been on the original contract, and they did not want to burden 
him with maintenance changes if they became unable to make them. 
When they explained their concerns, the Club representative offered them a contract 
which would give them a termination date, as long as they bought further points at a 
cost of £4,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws response to my provisional decision is inconsistent in some ways with what he has 
previously said. His initial complaint to Santander said that he first bought Club Infiniti 
membership in Portugal in 2011. He agreed the second contract in 2013 while on holiday in 
Spain. That is the contract which was financed by a payment from Mr Ws Santander credit 
card and which was the subject of his section 75 claim. 
Mr Ws own case is therefore that the 2013 contract  which was financed with credit 
provided by Santander  was intended to resolve some of the issues with the 2011 contract. 
Specifically, it gave an end date to the club membership. As I indicated in my provisional 
decision, however, there is no reason at this stage to believe it will not achieve that aim. 
Mr Ws primary concerns are about what he was told when he bought club membership in 
2011. The 2011 contract is not however the subject of his section 75 claim. And the 
allegations made in respect of both contracts are, as I have said, vague and not 
particularised. 
I have not therefore changed my view from that which I set out in my provisional decision.    My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman