DRN-3282079
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he took out household warranty insurance with Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc (D&G), his personal information was sent to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy to provide cover for a kitchen appliance. D&G sent his policy 
documents to him by post, but the documents were sent to the wrong address  they went to 
someone living nearby who is related to Mr B, and has the same surname and postcode. 
Mr B complained about this, as he said the information included details of his bank account, 
so he was at risk of fraud. D&G said there was a problem with its systems which merged his 
details with those of the other person, due to them having the same postcode.
D&G offered £20 to Mr B for the distress caused to him but he didnt think that was enough, 
so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed the offer was too low and 
asked D&G to increase the compensation to £50. 
D&G has now agreed to this but Mr B doesnt think £50 is enough compensation for the 
distress caused to him. He says: 
he didnt hear from D&G for ages and was left in the dark about what had happened;
this was a serious breach of data rules; and
this isnt the first time hes had data issues and it was very worrying.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that something went wrong here; the issue for me to decide is whether 
the compensation of £50 is enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
I appreciate it would be upsetting for Mr B to find out his information had been sent to the 
wrong address. Even if the person at that address was related to him, that doesnt 
necessarily make it less worrying. I appreciate also that the policy documents included some 
details of Mr Bs bank account, and he says this is not the first time something like this has 
happened to him. So I can see why he would have been upset and worried. 
On the other hand, the document didnt include the full account details and theres no 
evidence that Mr B has suffered any financial loss in relation to this incident. He says he was 
left in the dark for a long time, but D&G addressed the issue promptly  it was referred to the 
relevant team the day after he called  and updated its records. The plan was cancelled at 
Mr Bs request. And the response to his complaint was sent within a few weeks.
Mr B has referred to the importance of D&G keeping peoples data secure and I agree that is 
important. But its not for me to sanction D&G or fine it for wrongdoing. My role is to put right 
the distress caused to him. And to do that, I focus on the impact of the mistake, not how 
serious the mistake itself was. While the incident would have been upsetting for Mr B, taking 
into account the timescale involved and the actions D&G took when he complained, I think 
compensation of £50 is a fair reflection of the distress caused to him and the inconvenience 
he was put to. So it should make this payment to him. I understand it may have paid the 
original sum of £20 already, in which case the balance of £30 needs to be paid.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay compensation of 
£50 to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman