DRN-2843898
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited wont cover the 
shortfall from her mortgage endowment at maturity. 
What happened
In 1995, Mrs M took out a mortgage endowment plan that was split between two funds  
50% in a With-Profits fund and 50% in a Managed fund. It had a target sum of £55,000. This 
endowment was later taken over by Royal London.
In September 2020, Mrs M complained to Royal London as her policy was due to mature in 
December 2020 and her maturity figures showed the policy was going to have a shortfall. 
She wanted Royal London to make-up this shortfall as it had invested her money.
Royal London didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said it had invested and managed the 
funds appropriately. It explained that, in relation to the With-Profits fund, the rates of 
investment returns hadnt been at the level hoped for. And neither had the bonus rates. So 
this impacted the value of the fund and the final bonus payable to Mrs M at maturity. And in 
relation to the Managed fund, its value was dependent on fluctuations in the stock market. If 
prices were low, this would result in a lower fund value. It also set out that it had been writing 
to Mrs M since 2000 with projection letters  setting out the high likelihood of a shortfall at 
maturity.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She didnt agree it was fair Royal London 
wouldnt cover her shortfall. She also brought a complaint to us about the business that sold 
her the policy and said one of the businesses involved needed to take responsibility.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Royal London had done 
anything wrong or was required to cover the shortfall. She was satisfied Mrs M shouldve 
been aware it was likely and that there was this risk with her policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mrs M has found herself in a difficult position with the shortfall on her 
endowment. However, this is an investment  so it always came with a degree of risk. Im 
satisfied that all the communications Royal London has sent Mrs M since taking over her 
policy set out that there was a risk her policy wouldnt meet its target maturity value  and in 
fact at times a high risk this would be the case. While I understand the frustration and 
difficulty this has caused Mrs M, it is not the responsibility of Royal London to cover this 
shortfall.
I cant comment on the sale of this policy. But I can see the funds were invested in line with 
the application Mrs M completed. I cant hold Royal London responsible for matters outside 
of its control, so fluctuations in the stock market. It can only be responsible for how it 
administered and managed the funds; and the investment decisions it made. But Ive not 
seen any evidence it mis-managed Mrs Ms funds. In this case it seems that due to 
fluctuations in the stock market and investment value, which have been widely publicised 
during the time her endowment has been in place, Mrs Ms funds ultimately produced a 
lower value at maturity than was hoped for. Royal London is therefore not required to pay 
Mrs M this shortfall amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman