DRN-4239201
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr E complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited signposted
Mr E to a counselling service that he wasnt entitled to use, causing him distress and 
humiliation. 
What happened
On a call to DAS in 2021, Mr E became very upset that cover for his claim was being 
withdrawn. He tells us that he begged the advisor not to do so as it would have a negative 
effect on his mental health. Given his distress, the advisor gave Mr E the details of a 
counselling service he could contact for support. 
Mr E called the counselling helpline. But after divulging some very sensitive personal details, 
he was told he wasnt entitled to use the service. Mr E says he felt humiliated by this 
experience and raised a complaint to DAS.
In his letters to DAS dated 29 November 2021 and 1 August 2022, Mr E says he was told he 
couldnt use the counselling service because he wasnt a DAS employee. 
DAS investigated the complaint and issued a final response dated 3 February 2023. It 
explained that the counselling service was available to DAS customers, but on review of the 
case notes provided by the helpline, it stated that Mr E had told the helpline that his 
insurance had been terminated. DAS advised that this mightve been why he may not have 
been entitled to access the service. As such, DAS didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He told us that hed been refused access to the 
counselling service because the indemnity on his claim had been withdrawn. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that we didnt have jurisdiction 
over the actions of the counselling service, as this was provided by a third-party company for 
which DAS wasnt liable. Shed looked solely at the actions of DAS, and she didnt think it 
had acted unreasonably by signposting Mr E for help given how distressed he was. 
Mr E didnt agree. He says the Investigator has failed to take into account the impact this 
had on his disability and mental health. Nor has she considered that he didnt receive a 
response to his complaint for over a year.
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive set out the key reasons why below:
Its not in dispute that Mr E was significantly upset and distressed in his call with 
DAS. He says he specifically told the advisor that the decision on his claim would 
have a negative effect on his mental health and that he was already seeing a 
psychiatrist and on strong medication. 
As our Investigator has explained, the advisor has two options at this point; 1) to not 
do anything, or 2) try to get Mr E some support. Given that DAS offer its customers 
access to a counselling service, I would be concerned if the advisor hadnt given 
Mr E the details of the helpline as it was clear this would be something hed benefit 
from. So it follows, that Im satisfied DAS acted correctly on this call rather than doing 
nothing. 
DAS customers have access to a counselling service. Ive verified this by calling the 
helpline number and confirming with an advisor that its not solely for DAS 
employees. Its not clear why Mr E thought this was the case. Ive not seen any 
evidence that he was told this, in fact Mr Es complaint to us doesnt even imply this  
only his complaint to DAS directly. 
DAS final response to the complaint says the counselling services case notes 
suggest that Mr E had told them his insurance had been terminated. As such, the 
counselling service wouldve reasonably concluded that Mr E was no longer a 
customer of DAS as he didnt have an insurance policy in place anymore. They 
werent to know that it wasnt the policy itself that had been terminated, but rather the 
indemnity cover for that particular claim. 
I dont know what Mr E specifically told the counselling service, and whether they had 
misunderstood what hed told them. But as our Investigator has explained, the 
counselling service doesnt form part of his insurance contract and the provider of 
that service isnt acting as an agent for DAS. So I cant hold DAS liable for their 
actions. And I cant look into a complaint directly against the counselling service as 
they fall outside our jurisdiction. 
Whatever reason the helpline gave Mr E, I have no doubt that he wouldve felt 
vulnerable and distressed after disclosing confidential and sensitive information only 
to be told that he wasnt entitled to use the service. He has my sincere empathy for 
what I can only imagine he wouldve felt after this experience. 
But as Ive explained, I cant hold DAS liable for the counselling services actions. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for DAS advisor to give him the details for this 
service when he was clearly in need of some emotional support. 
Im aware that Mr E raised this complaint point in 2022, but he didnt receive a final 
response letter specifically addressing this issue until 2023. I do understand this 
wouldve been frustrating, but Im mindful of the number of complaints and complaint 
points Mr E has raised to both DAS and our Service so I can appreciate how some 
issues may have been overlooked. 
Im not persuaded the delay in getting an answer to this specific complaint point 
caused an impact to Mr E other than some minor inconvenience of having to follow 
up the issue with DAS. I say this because it isnt a complaint issue where the 
outcome has any impact on his claims or the cover under his policy. So Im not 
persuaded that compensation is warranted here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman