DRN-3347827
The complaint
Miss B complains she lost the chance to move and her plans for the future were adversely 
affected because Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited overlooked submitting her Help to Buy 
application in time.
What happened
In around February 2020 Miss B approached Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) 
about funding to buy a new property. In November 2020 MAB discussed Miss Bs 
mortgage needs with her. They advised Miss B on porting her mortgage and borrowing an 
additional amount from her existing lender. And they completed an application on Miss Bs 
behalf to borrow the further funds she needed under the governments Help to Buy (HTB) 
scheme.
Shortly before Miss B was due to exchange contracts in January 2021, MAB realised they 
hadnt submitted the HTB application. And their efforts to get it through late as an 
exception failed. Since the HTB scheme had closed to applicants like Miss B at the end of 
2020, and she wasnt able to move without financial help from the scheme, she couldnt 
move at all.
MAB acknowledged things had gone wrong. They apologised and discussed with Miss B 
how they could compensate her. MAB initially offered Miss B £550. They increased this to
£2,188 in their final response to her complaint, and later made an offer of £5,000 in full 
and final settlement. None of the offers was acceptable to Miss B. She felt a payment of 
half the advance she would have had from the HTB scheme - £26,000  was fair to 
resolve her complaint.
Our investigator considered the losses Miss B said shed incurred and came to the view 
the offer to pay £5,000 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Miss B 
disagreed and appointed solicitors to represent her in relation to her complaint going 
forward. They say a fair amount to put things right for Miss B is around £18,000. Since 
Miss B didnt accept our investigators view, her complaint was been passed to me to 
review. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs solicitors have raised arguments MAB havent responded to and my current view 
is different in some regards to the conclusions reached by our investigator. So, Im issuing 
a provisional decision to allow the parties to make further comments before I reach my 
final decision.
The parties agree MAB made a mistake in failing to submit Miss Bs application under the 
HTB scheme and the result was she couldnt go ahead with the sale of her existing 
property and the purchase of the new one. So, theres no need for me to discuss whether 
MAB were at fault  theyve accepted they were.
I understand it will have been very disappointing for Miss B that her move fell through. 
Shes explained that since shes no longer able to access the HTB scheme she cant 
reorganise her finances as shed planned to. Her hopes of moving up the property ladder 
have been affected. And her plan to move to another area to bring up and educate her 
daughter cant now go ahead. I can also understand Miss B found it frustrating that MAB 
didnt reply to her correspondence following their offer to pay £5,000. Up to that point, from 
what Ive seen, MAB tried to resolve things in an amicable way. But by then Miss Bs 
complaint was with this service, so I wouldnt expect MAB to continue corresponding with 
her direct.
What I need to consider is how MAB should put things right. MAB approached this by 
looking at the position Miss B would have been in if her application hadnt started. And 
initially they offered to pay some of the costs she incurred which they considered werent 
a direct consequence of what happened, before offering to settle by paying a lump sum in 
full and final settlement.
I think the right approach is to think about the position Miss B would have been in if 
things had gone the way they should. I cant be certain the sale and purchase 
transactions would have completed. But the lender had approved the mortgage subject 
to the HTB scheme providing funds, contracts were due to be exchanged shortly and 
MAB seem to accept the transaction would have gone ahead. On balance, it seems to 
me more likely than not that Miss Bs sale and purchase would have completed.
Since the opportunity for Miss B to obtain help through the HTB scheme was no longer 
available by the time MAB realised its mistake, theres no possibility of asking them to 
arrange for the application to go ahead and to meet any additional costs that might have 
been incurred due to delay, for example. So I need to think about the costs Miss B wasted 
as a result of the sale and purchase transactions not going ahead, any foreseeable losses 
she incurred as a direct consequence of what happened and how she can be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
Miss B identified several losses in her correspondence with MAB. Some, but not all those 
losses have been put forward by her solicitors. To be sure nothing Miss B is arguing for is 
overlooked, Ill consider each loss separately using headings to make things easier to 
follow. If I havent mentioned something, the parties have the chance to let me know by 
responding to this provisional decision.
Reservation fee for the property Miss B was purchasing
I understand Miss B paid a reservation fee of £500 for the property shed planned to buy. 
I think this has been refunded to her. If it hasnt, I think its a loss that flows directly from 
MABs mistake and could be foreseen; and they should pay that amount to Miss B if she 
provides evidence she made the payment.
25% payment Miss B made towards extras on the property she was 
purchasing
I understand Miss B made a payment to the seller towards additional items for the new 
property. Again, if the payment hasnt been refunded, I think MAB should pay Miss B 
the amount she paid if she provides evidence she made the payment. It too is a loss 
which arises directly from MABs mistake and could be foreseen.Legal fees
I understand Miss Bs conveyancing solicitors refunded at least some of the fees shed 
paid towards the transactions. MAB should pay Miss B the balance of any legal fees that 
havent been refunded and Miss B can evidence she paid. Again, they were lost as a 
direct consequence of the failed transactions and were foreseeable.
Stamp duty
Miss B calculated she would have saved stamp duty of around £3,000 because of the 
government freeze on stamp duty payments at the time her purchase was due to take 
place. Miss B has said she doesnt now intend to go ahead and move. If thats right, she 
wont incur stamp duty so its not fair to ask MAB to pay what she would have saved  that 
would amount to a windfall.
Saving on estate agents fees
I understand if the transactions had gone ahead, Miss Bs estate agents fees of around
£1,500 would have been paid on her behalf. Since the transactions didnt go ahead, Miss 
B didnt become liable to pay, or in a position to save, any such fees. And since she isnt 
currently planning to move, she hasnt lost out by having to pay any estate agents fees 
now. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask MAB to make any payment.
MAB said theyd consider reimbursing any estate agents fees Miss B did pay up to 
January 2021, presumably on the basis she knew then the transaction had failed and could 
have ended the estate agents instruction. I think thats fair since any such fees would have 
been wasted when the transaction failed. MAB should pay any fees Miss B can evidence 
she paid for services the estate agents provided up to 14 January 2021 when Miss B found 
out what had happened.
Items bought for the new property
Miss B mentioned shed spent money on items she planned to use in the new property 
but couldnt use in her existing property due to lack of space or because they werent 
suitable. She thought shed be able to get a refund on those.
MAB offered to reimburse anything she couldnt get refunded if Miss B provided evidence 
of that. I think it was reasonable and not unexpected for Miss B to make some 
preparations for furnishing her new home given she was close to exchanging contracts, 
even though there was no guarantee the transactions would complete. I think MABs offer 
is fair in the circumstances.
Dining room
I understand Miss Bs new property would have had a study where she could work from 
home. I accept that would have been helpful given her change in working arrangements 
due to the coronavirus pandemic. But, from what shes told us, I dont think it was Miss Bs 
main motivation for moving.
Since Miss B had to stay in her existing property, she planned to adapt her dining room to 
accommodate home working. I acknowledge MAB offered to reimburse Miss B the £599 
she planned to spend on a smaller dining table and new lighting if she provided evidence 
shed incurred those costs.Miss B was paying a higher price for extra space in the new property. So, I dont think the 
fact she couldnt move and decided to make some changes in her existing property led to 
additional cost. But I can understand it was inconvenient. I think its the inconvenience 
that should be considered here, not the cost of the changes she planned  and Ill refer 
to that later.
Day off work
Miss B took time off work following the collapse of the transactions because she was 
understandably upset by what had happened. I acknowledge MAB offered to pay Miss B 
the equivalent of a days holiday pay of £196.23. But I think the time Miss B took as holiday 
from work should be reflected in an award for the overall distress and inconvenience she 
suffered. So, Ill refer to that later as well.
Interest on a loan and credit card
Miss B had an unsecured loan shed taken out to carry out some works to her property. 
She says she planned to repay the loan and a credit card balance from the proceeds of 
sale from her existing property.
MAB have argued:
Miss Bs costs associated with the loan and credit card werent connected to the 
transactions and would still have been there if Miss Bs application hadnt 
concluded for any other reason.
Since Miss Bs existing contractual monthly mortgage payment (CMP) was 
£290 a month less than the new CMP would have been, shes no worse off 
making the existing lower CMP and the loan payments in addition.
Miss B could remortgage or refinance her unsecured debt using equity in her 
existing property.
Miss B had secured a 0% interest rate deal on her credit card.
MAB initially offered to pay Miss B three months interest on the loan to give her time 
to remortgage or refinance it, which they calculated as £265.75.
Miss B says by selling the existing house she would have been able to pay off the credit 
card balance and loan which cost her more than the increased amount she would have 
paid towards her new mortgage. She said paying towards a mortgage on a new house was 
an investment opportunity that was missed as a result of the transactions not going 
through. And she says she cant make additional payments to her existing mortgage as she 
is still paying off the loan and credit card.
In January 2021 Miss B owed around £17,675 on the loan and around £4,200 on her 
credit card.
Based on the available evidence, Im persuaded Miss B planned to repay the loan once 
the transactions had completed. The fact find completed by MAB in November 2020 
makes clear she intended to pay off the loan and MAB were aware of that. I think it was a 
direct consequence of the transactions failing that she couldnt pay off the loan. And I 
think it was foreseeable given it was part of Miss Bs plans for moving.
Miss Bs solicitors argue since she couldnt move and repay the loan shes continued to 
pay a high rate of interest and should be compensated for that. They calculate shes owed
£4,530.92 as follows:The interest @ 9.9% [APR] on £17,675.00 amounts to £1,749.00. This would have 
been the correct figure had she paid off the loan when she was due to sell her 
house. If our client was to pay off the loan now, she could save an additional 
£2,781.00 in interest so the possible saving of interest on the loan has been 
calculated as follows:
£1,749.00 + £2,781.00 = £4,530.82.
I dont understand their calculation or reasoning and would ask them to clarify and 
provide supporting evidence for their figures.
Im not currently persuaded Miss B has suffered a loss in relation to the loan. Whilst the 
fact find indicates she wasnt planning to repay the loan from the new mortgage, she was 
essentially transferring an unsecured debt with a high interest rate of 9.9% to her new 
mortgage. Thats because she was having to borrow more than she would otherwise have 
needed to borrow so she could pay the loan off using equity from her sale. The loan would 
have been consolidated into her new mortgage and become a secured debt with a lower 
interest rate over a longer term. It's not clear she would have paid less interest overall. But 
Ill consider any further comments Miss B would like to make about that.
Miss Bs solicitors say she would also have paid the balance owing on her credit card of
£4,200 from the proceeds of sale of her existing property; at the time she had a 0% 
interest period on her credit card and following a balance transfer still benefited from 0% 
interest as at October 2021; but she still has to pay the balance and her credit rating is 
affected. The solicitors say this impacts her ability to get a favourable mortgage deal. 
They think Miss B should be paid half of what she owes on her credit card by way of 
compensation  around £2,100. Again, Id ask Miss Bs solicitors to clarify their reasoning 
and provide evidence to support this figure.
Im not currently persuaded Miss B would have repaid the credit card balance. The fact 
find suggests she didnt intend to pay off the credit card or the other unsecured borrowing, 
besides the loan, that she had. Miss Bs been benefiting from 0% interest terms which 
allow her to repay the balance over time without incurring additional costs. So, 
consolidating the credit card debt into her new mortgage wouldnt have saved her money. 
And I havent seen any documentary evidence Miss Bs credit file is impacted purely 
because of her credit card balance.
Even if Miss B had paid off the credit card loan, Im not currently persuaded she would 
have paid less interest overall for the reasons Ive explained in relation to the loan.
Increase in home insurance costs
The loan Miss B took out was for works she had to carry out to the existing property 
because of suspected subsidence. Her insurance premiums increased following the 
insurance claim. And she says shes no longer able to get standard buildings and contents 
insurance despite subsidence being ruled out following the repairs and monitoring. Miss B 
says if the sale of the property had gone ahead, she wouldnt have had to carry on paying 
insurance premiums at such a high rate.
Miss Bs solicitors say since she cant go ahead with selling now because of MABs 
negligence, its fair for MAB to pay the difference between her previous premiums and 
the higher premiums for a period of five years  a sum of £2,315.40. They dont explain 
why.MAB said the buildings insurance had increased due to potential subsidence and the costs 
would still have been payable if the transactions hadnt completed for any other reason. As 
a gesture of goodwill MAB initially offered to pay the difference between her insurance 
premiums before the claim and afterwards for 12 months - £463  if she provided proof of 
those premiums.
I think its reasonable to say Miss B continues to pay buildings insurance premiums on her 
existing property because the sale didnt go through. Its unfortunate theyre higher than 
Miss B would like to pay although the insurance position is surprising if subsidence was 
ruled out as Miss B says.
However, I dont think MAB should pay for the additional insurance costs. I dont think 
they were in the reasonable contemplation of the parties when MAB was advising Miss B 
on her mortgage and arranging the HTB loan. So, I think they are too remote from what 
happened and it wouldnt be fair to ask MAB to pay them.
Pension contributions
Ms B paused her pension payments when she was furloughed due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. The parties agree she had to start making payments again to satisfy the lenders 
requirements, as she was planning to borrow into her retirement. If Miss B suffered any 
loss because of making the pension payments and the transaction failing due to MABs 
mistake, I think it was foreseeable.
Miss B says, but for the lenders requirements, she would have chosen not to make 
any pension payments until the performance of her pension funds, that had been 
adversely affected by the coronavirus pandemic, had improved.
MAB argue making the pension payments benefited Miss B. But they initially offered to 
pay her what shed paid for December and January on the basis she could have 
cancelled her payments again from February onwards. They proposed £163.90 on the 
basis that was the figure shed quoted, although I understand £163.90 to be the monthly 
pension payment figure.
Miss Bs solicitors say she lost the chance to use money she spent on pension payments 
to reduce the balance on her loan or credit card, or towards her monthly expenditure. They 
say MAB should pay Miss B £983.40, which they calculate to be 6 months worth of 
pension contributions, although they dont explain the reason why thats appropriate.
I dont think Miss Bs lost out financially by making payments into her pension fund. The 
fund may not have been performing well at the time she made the payments. But she will 
benefit from the payments when her pension fund generates a lump sum and/or income 
based on how those funds are performing when she retires.
I agree Miss B lost the chance to use the pension payment money for other things for a 
limited period. Its possible Miss B could have saved some interest on her loan or other 
unsecured debts if shed reduced the balances. But I havent seen any evidence she was 
making payments to do that before she started paying into her pension again, so Im not 
currently persuaded she would have done. I think the appropriate way of addressing this 
is as part of an award for inconvenience.
Stress and anxiety and loss of opportunityMiss Bs explained the significant impact the events have had on her and her solicitors 
have recently summarised these as follows:
Miss B was greatly distressed by losing the chance to move. She lost the chance 
to benefit from the HTB scheme and will never have the same opportunity in the 
future. Due to MABs mistake Miss B wasnt able to buy a much bigger house for 
herself and her daughter which they say would considerably have improved their 
lifestyle. The new house would have provided more privacy for Miss Bs daughter 
as she was growing up.
The house Miss B was buying was in the catchment area of the school she 
wanted her daughter to go to but isnt now an option for her.
Miss B may not be able to buy a similar house in the future due to her age and 
current financial situation. So its possible Miss B will never be able to buy a 
house equivalent to the one she would have bought but for MABs mistake.
Miss B is suffering a great deal of stress as a result of the situation and realises 
she may have lost her chance to move up the property ladder.
I dont agree its certain Miss B will never be able to move or benefit from the type of 
opportunity the HTB scheme gave her in 2020, and I hope she gets another chance. But I 
accept Miss Bs been significantly impacted by MABs mistake and has suffered a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience as a result.
Miss B was inconvenienced by the transactions falling through. She had to deal with 
recovering money shed paid out to the sellers and her solicitors as well as returning items 
shed bought. She needed to make changes to her existing property to accommodate 
home working. And she lost the chance to use money she paid into her pension for other 
things. Miss B was understandably upset when she found out what had happened and 
took a days leave to, in her words, compose herself, which she would otherwise have 
used for rest and relaxation.
Significantly, Miss Bs been unable to take forward the plans she had for improving her and 
her daughters overall situation. I think it will take some time for Miss B to come to terms 
with whats happened.
Bearing everything in mind, I think its fair that MAB pays Miss B compensation of £2,000.
My provisional decision
I provisionally direct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay to Miss B:
1) To the extent they havent already been reimbursed, and she provides evidence 
of payment, the reservation fee of £500, extras she paid for the new property and 
legal costs associated with the transactions;
2) Any estate agents fees Miss B paid up to 14 January 2021;
3) Simple interest on the amounts in 1) and 2) at the rate of 8% a year from 14 
January 2021 until payment;
4) Compensation of £2,000 for distress and inconvenience
If Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Miss B how much theyve taken off.
They should also give her a certificate showing this she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Developments
MAB havent commented on my provisional decision. Miss B has made several points 
through her solicitors, which Ill address. 
As a general point, my decision isnt an offer to Miss B  its my conclusion about whats 
fair and reasonable to put right the impact of MABs mistake on Miss B. It may not reflect 
MABs own response to Miss Bs complaint. Theres no obligation on Miss B to accept my 
decision. And the parties are free to agree terms of settlement if they wish to do so.
Ill comment by reference to the headings which Miss Bs solicitors have used in responding 
to my provisional decision.
Dining room
Miss B says the changes she had to make to her dining room resulted from MABs 
negligence and not being able to move properties. In fact, they were needed to 
accommodate home working. She spent money on items to adapt her existing property 
when she couldnt move and use the extra space in the property shed hoped to buy. 
Having considered Miss Bs arguments, I dont think shes incurred a loss that MAB caused, 
or that shes incurred a loss at all. Although she had to find money to make a one-off 
payment for the items she required, she would have paid a higher price for extra space in 
the new property. And she has ongoing use of the items she bought. 
I still think its right to consider the inconvenience of adapting her existing property as part of 
the distress and inconvenience Miss B suffered as I said in my provisional decision.
Day off work
Miss B argues this aspect of her complaint should be treated separately from the issue of 
distress and inconvenience since MAB offered to pay her a days holiday pay. She says 
fact that she took the day off due to distress is irrelevant.
Although Miss B could have used the day for holiday rather than because of how she was 
feeling, Im not aware Miss B suffered a financial loss as a result of taking a days leave, 
even though MAB offered to compensate her for it. This service doesnt generally make 
awards based on rates of pay. I still think its appropriate to consider this issue as part of an 
overall award for distress and inconvenience.
Interest on loan and credit card
Ive considered Miss Bs explanation as to how she calculates the loss she says she 
incurred in being unable to pay off her loan, but I dont think it takes things forward. Miss B 
acknowledges the loan would have been consolidated into her new mortgage; that she 
would have paid interest even if that was at a lower interest rate; and that the loan would 
have been repayable over a much longer period of time. Miss B says only interest related to 
the loan should be taken into account - not overall interest for the consolidated debt into the 
mortgage. She says theres no evidence she would have paid more interest. And Miss B 
says the most important consideration is that if shed paid off the loan, she would have 
been able to free up money and use it to invest in the new property and improve her and 
her daughters situation overall.Its up to Miss B to show shes incurred a loss. I dont think its right to consider the loan in 
isolation, if thats what Miss B is suggesting. It should be considered as part of the new 
mortgage. Miss Bs calculation doesnt take into account shed still be paying interest on the 
loan amount  as part of the new mortgage  at a lower rate initially, but for much longer 
and with uncertainty about the rates that might be available after the initial fixed interest 
rate period came to an end. On the evidence Miss Bs provided, Im still not persuaded 
shes incurred a loss. So, I see no reason to change my mind on this issue.
I acknowledge Miss Bs intentions were to invest into her new property to improve things for 
her family. Ive taken this into account when considering distress and inconvenience.
I acknowledge Miss B says she would have paid of the credit card as well. But she hasnt 
provided any additional information about this issue or how she calculates her loss that 
leads me to change my mind about this aspect of her complaint.
Increase in home insurance premiums
Miss B argues its because of MABs negligence she is now required to pay higher 
insurance premiums for the foreseeable future. She says MAB offered to pay the difference 
between her insurance premiums before and after her claim for period 12 months. And 
shes argued it was reasonable for them to pay the difference for five years on the basis 
she wont be able to sell within that period - or at all.
Im sorry to hear Miss Bs insurance has increased again. However, the reason for her high 
premiums is because she cant access standard insurance due to suspected subsidence at 
the property even though subsidence wasnt found. I acknowledge Miss B will have to pay 
the higher rate unless she can resolve concerns she has about that with her insurer. But I 
cant reasonably conclude MAB are responsible for the increased premiums, even if she 
has to pay them because she couldnt move. I still dont think the additional cost is 
something the parties would have contemplated at the time they were discussing Miss Bs 
mortgage. So, any loss is too remote, and it wouldnt be fair to ask MAB to compensate 
Miss B for her additional insurance cost.
Pension contributions
Miss B argues her complaint should be upheld in relation to this issue since MAB offered to 
pay her £163.90.
Ive considered Miss Bs complaint afresh and simply because MAB made Miss B an offer 
doesnt mean I should conclude its fair and reasonable for them to make a payment. 
However, MAB are free to pay this sum to Miss B whatever I decide.
Loss of opportunity
Miss B says the award I proposed to make of £2,000 wasnt enough to compensate Miss B 
for the loss of opportunity she has suffered.
She argues shes lost the chance to invest in a property that might increase over time. She 
wont be able to buy a new property without the Help to Buy scheme. And MABs insurers 
said they should offer at least £5,000 for their negligence.
The award of £2,000 I proposed making was to compensate Miss B for the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered. I took into account the issues Miss B has raised again, save 
for her argument that the property will increase over time and shes lost out on making a 
profit as a result. I think thats too speculative to take into account, and the property could have reduced in value too. So I see no reason to change my mind about the award for 
distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing everything in mind, I see no reason to change the outcome I proposed in my 
provisional decision for the reasons Ive explained. 
Putting things right
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Miss B, I see no 
reason to change my mind about how MAB should put things right for her. Id clarify that the 
compensation should take into account anything MAB has already paid her for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I direct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay to Miss B:
1) To the extent they havent already been reimbursed, and she provides evidence 
of payment, the reservation fee of £500, extras she paid for the new property and 
legal costs associated with the transactions;
2) Any estate agents fees Miss B paid up to 14 January 2021;
3) Simple interest on the amounts in 1) and 2) at the rate of 8% a year from 14 
January 2021 until payment;
4) Compensation of £2,000 for distress and inconvenience inclusive of any amount 
they have already paid to her.
If Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Miss B how much theyve taken off.
They should also give her a certificate showing this she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman