DRN-3345155
The complaint
Ms C complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (R&SA) unfairly declined her claim 
for the purchase price of her cat under her pet insurance policy. She says R&SA has 
harassed her and discriminated against her. 
Any reference to R&SA includes its agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Ms C took out a pet insurance policy with R&SA. It covered her, amongst 
other things for the cost of vet fees up to a limit of £4,000, the cost of her cat if he passed 
away and the cost of cremating or burying him.
Sadly, in September 2020, Ms Cs cat passed away whilst being treated at her vet clinic. And 
shortly afterwards, she submitted a claim for the treatment and cremation fees and his 
purchase price together with receipts to prove each claim. Around 7 October 2020, R&SA 
spoke with Ms C to question the authenticity of her proof of purchase. One of the concerns it 
highlighted was that the file properties of the document shed provided said shed created it. 
It also noticed discrepancies in the sellers address details and date shown on the receipt 
and it thought it would be unusual for the seller to get these details wrong.
Before this call, Ms C said the document shed sent was the original receipt she was given 
by the seller. But during the call, she said shed copied the original handwritten receipt into 
this document because it wasnt coming out clearly in photos and she thought it would make 
the claims process simpler. Ms C sent a photo of the handwritten note following the call.
The handwritten note showed exactly the same details as the typed version  including the 
spelling and grammatical errors and the photo was clearly visible. So R&SA didnt accept it 
was the original receipt either and told Ms C it thought shed falsified her claim. It said the 
amount she claimed to have paid for her cat was more than it would expect for his breed. 
And in order to proceed, it asked her for the sellers details or records from the website shed 
found her cat through, and a handwritten statement confirming she didnt create the receipts.
 Unhappy with R&SAs response, Ms C raised a complaint. She said it had discriminated 
against her as English isnt her first language and she said she was unable to write anything 
by hand as she suffers from arthritis. She was also unhappy the remainder of her claim 
hadnt been paid while the claim for the purchase price was being investigated.
The other two claims were paid in January 2021. In R&SAs final response letter sent a few 
days later, it said the other claims were put on hold while things were being investigated. But 
it paid Ms C £50 for the delay in settling them. Unhappy with R&SAs response, Ms C asked 
our service to look into things. She also said she felt she was being discriminated against on 
the grounds of being married as R&SA had questioned why her name on her policy was 
different from the records the vets practice held. Our investigator didnt think R&SA had 
done anything wrong as she thought the information it had asked for was reasonable. Ms C 
didnt accept our investigators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand the loss of Ms Cs cat has 
been very upsetting for her so I thank her for taking the time to give all the information she 
has. But based on what Ive seen so far, Im not planning to uphold her complaint, I know 
shell be very disappointed. Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of the policy. These say to make a claim for the purchase 
price of a pet, the policyholder will need to provide proof of purchase. Whilst Ms C has sent 
documents she says are receipts to R&SA, at the moment, I think its reasonable its 
questioned whether they are original documents.
I say this because from the correspondence Ive been given between Ms C and R&SA, it 
seems she hasnt been consistent in her testimony about the documents. She initially said 
the typed version was the original receipt and it was only after R&SA explained it could see 
shed created it herself, that she said shed copied the original as it was difficult to 
photograph and wasnt readable. I cant see why that wouldve been as it was on a standard 
piece of paper  and I note she was able to provide a clear photo later the same day. I 
appreciate Ms C has pointed out that English isnt her first language and so she mightve 
been confused. But Im currently satisfied the questions asked were reasonably clear and 
relevant to the matters being investigated.
The receipts only give the sellers surname and part of her address  the town and city  
which is spelled incorrectly. And the date of sale listed is actually Ms Cs cats date of birth. I 
note the town and city are the only parts of the address Ms C had previously told R&SA she 
could remember. And I think its unlikely the seller wouldve spelled her own address wrong 
or written a date from months before. Ive thought about all of this together with what R&SA 
has said about the purchase price being more than the likely value of her cat. And at the 
moment, I dont think its treated Ms C unfairly by not accepting the evidence shes provided.
Ms Cs said she cant provide a handwritten note as she suffers from arthritis. But I can see 
R&SA gave her other options which it doesnt seem shes explored. It suggested she send in 
details of the seller  or information from the website her cat was advertised on for it to 
investigate further. And I dont think its acted unreasonably by doing so. Whilst I accept 
Ms C may no longer remember the sellers details as she bought her cat around six years 
before the claim, she wouldve needed to respond to the advert. And I think it's possible 
shed have a record of this. Its for Ms C to prove shes suffered the loss claimed  and I 
dont currently think its unreasonable or impossible for her to go through her records and 
messages on the website from around the time of the sale to do so.
 If the receipt isnt available, the terms and conditions of Ms Cs policy say R&SA will pay the 
amount of a similar pet. So Ms C has questioned why it hasnt done this. But in this case, 
based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im satisfied the documentation Ms Cs provided to 
support her claim are unlikely the original purchase receipts. So I currently think its fair for 
R&SA to reject her claim for the cost of her cat in full.
I know Ms C feels R&SA has discriminated against her given its questioned the spelling and 
grammar on her receipt. But I dont think It was questioning why she hadnt noticed the 
errors on the receipt  rather, I think it was highlighting that the receipt was written in a 
similar style to correspondence shed previously sent. And having looked at her 
correspondence myself, I can see why it questioned this.Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied R&SA was carrying out reasonable 
investigations into Ms Cs claim to ensure its valid. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think shes been treated differently from other customers  or that other customers wouldnt 
have been questioned about the evidence put forward in similar circumstances. So I dont 
think Ms Cs race played any part in the way the claim was handled. And I dont think she 
was treated unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. I hope that it helps Ms C to know 
someone impartial and independent of the parties has looked into her concerns.
I can see Ms Cs name on her insurance policy and claim form was different to the records 
the vet held for her so R&SA initially questioned this. I understand Ms C was unhappy she 
was questioned and said she felt she was being treated unfairly due to her marital status. 
But I dont currently agree. From what Ive seen, the names didnt match and there was no 
obvious explanation as to why. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for R&SA to 
query this. And Im satisfied the issue was promptly clarified.
Ms Cs also complained the remaining elements of her claim  the treatment and cremation 
fees  were delayed while R&SA was looking into the purchase price. But in its letter sent to 
her on 26 October 2020, I can see R&SA explained it had suspected shed provided falsified 
documents to support her claim and highlighted the terms and conditions relating to 
fraudulent claims. As those terms allow the insurer to decline the whole claim  including the 
parts that are honestly made  I dont think it acted outside the terms of the policy by 
investigating the claim for the purchase price first before settling the rest. I also note its 
already apologised for the delay and paid her £50 to make up for it. So I dont currently think 
it needs to do anything more than its already done here.
I asked both parties to make any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
R&SA said it had no further comments to add. Ms C didnt respond by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the comments Ive received, I see no reason to change my conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 
31 March 2022. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman