DRN-4416717
The complaint
Miss C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as moneyboat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out the correct affordability checks at the time the loan was
granted. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered Miss C had rent arrears and therefore it
would not have granted the loan.
Miss C also says she wasnt treated fairly when she tried to set up a repayment plan with
MoneyBoat and it called and texted her too much about the arrears.
What happened
Miss C was granted one loan of £800 on 21 November 2021. Miss C was due to make five
monthly repayments of £257.25 and then a final payment of £257.21. As of January 2023,
an outstanding balance remains due, and Miss C is making payments through a repayment
plan.
MoneyBoat reviewed Miss Cs complaint and didnt uphold it because it said proportionate
checks had been carried out and it had tried to assist Miss C in repaying the loan by 
agreeing to a number of repayment plans. Unhappy with this response, Miss C referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator then considered the complaint, and in her latest assessment she didnt
uphold it. But she did say that MoneyBoat ought to have carried out further checks before
granting the loan because the credit check results showed that in the past year three 
accounts had become delinquent. And the adjudicator reviewed the bank statements 
provided by Miss C but she thought, had MoneyBoat reviewed them it wouldve still have 
decided to have lent.
Miss C didnt agree with the outcome, saying she was behind with a guarantor loan that had 
a balance of £7,000 and she was only paying £77 per month towards instead of the 
contracted amount of £219. Miss C also said she been declined a loan from a credit union 
and she provided a copy of the declined email.
The case was then reviewed by another adjudicator who dealt with Miss Cs concerns
around the contact she had with MoneyBoat after she missed payments and when she was
trying to agree a repayment plan. In the adjudicators view, the contact was not excessive in 
nature and it had acted in line with MoneyBoats terms and conditions.
As no agreement could be reached the case was then passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint. Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, 
but in any event no later than 3 November 2023.
Miss C responded to say she was in agreement with the provisional decision, and she didnt 
have anything further to add. 
MoneyBoat said it had nothing further to add and would wait for the final decision.  
Although the deadline for responses, as laid out in the provisional decision hasnt yet 
expired, as both parties have now responded agreeing with the provisional decision findings, 
I see no reason to delay the issuing of the final decision. Both Miss C and MoneyBoat have 
been informed the case was being preparing for a final decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the amount
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Cs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied to Miss Cs complaint as there was only one loan and I agree.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss C was able to
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Miss C for details of her income, which
she declared as being £1,350 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figure was checked
through a credit reference agency.
Miss C also declared monthly outgoings of £750 which included but not limited to a number
of other categories such as rent/mortgage payment of £220, £300 for credit commitments
and £60 for transport.
As part of the application, MoneyBoat used information from its credit search as well as
information from the Common Finance Statement. The Common Financial Statement are alist of average amounts that a consumer may have to spend each month for common
expenses.
Following these two additional checks, it increased Miss Cs outgoings by a further £100.
This meant for MoneyBoats affordability assessment it used total monthly outgoings of £850
 which left Miss C with £500 of disposable income each month to afford the repayment of
around £258.
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that
although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do is carry out a
credit search and then not react to the information it received.
And its these credit search results that caused the adjudicator to be sufficiently concerned
that she thought MoneyBoat needed to have carried out further checks. Having reviewed
those results, I agree with the adjudicator.
MoneyBoat knew that Miss C had a number of loans outstanding and given the monthly
repayments she was committed to making these were likely either instalment loans or home
credit loans  she had five such loans outstanding costing her £170 per month.
There were some historic defaults from 2018 and 2019  five in total. However, Miss C had
defaulted on an account in February 2021 which had been in delinquency for some time.
The presences of one recent default, on its own, isnt likely to make me think that further
checks were needed. But there was other recent and current adverse information that
MoneyBoat did need to take into consideration.
The first account had entered delinquency in January 2021  this was a payday loan and
Miss C was committed to paying £113 per month  but due to repayment difficulties, she
was only making payment of £20 per month. The second account went into delinquency in
June 2021  this was noted as a Finance House loan and Miss C ought to have been
paying £226 per month  but as with the payday loan account she was on a repayment plan
and making payments of £77 per month.
So, by the time this loan was granted, Miss C was having financial difficulties to the extent
that she needed repayment plans on two loans which ought to have been costing her £339
per month but due to her difficulties, she was in actual fact only paying £99 per month.
This was ongoing at the time when MoneyBoat approved the loan, so while I understand
what it has said about expecting some adverse information  the fact it was recent and
showed that Miss C was having problems managing her existing creditors ought to have
prompted some further checks. And these checks needed to be conducted so that
MoneyBoat could satisfy itself that Miss C was able to both afford the repayments and that
these payments would be sustainable for her.
MoneyBoat couldve gone about carrying out further checks a number of ways, it couldve
asked Miss C more information about her creditors, gathered her bank statements, asked for
evidence of her outgoings or any other documentation that MoneyBoat may have considered
it needed in order to gain a full understanding of Miss Cs current financial position.
Miss C has provided copies of her bank statement from the month before this loan was
approved  October 2021. It wouldve seen that Miss Cs declared income was broadly
correct. On top of her living costs that are visible for things such as water, council tax and
her Television licence. There are three payments being made to three different debt
collection agencies  which I would assume are connected to the accounts that Miss C had
defaulted on in 2018/2019.
Although, the bank statements on its own, doesnt in my view give an accurate view of
Miss Cs expenditure  because the payments to loans that we know were on her credit file(and which were being made) arent all visible.
There also, as far as I can see no payment for rent and minimal payments for food. So, in
my view the bank statements on their own may not have been sufficient to conclude the loan
should not have been granted and therefore that this complaint should be upheld. But taken
in conjunction with the credit check results and with what Ive explained below overall it
shouldve led MoneyBoat to conclude the loan wasnt sustainable.
In addition, as MoneyBoat ought to have had a full understanding of Miss Cs circumstances,
its likely it wouldve discovered that in addition to the two repayment plans on the two loans
Ive mentioned above, Miss C was also in arrears with her rent by nearly £2,000.
So, the rent arrears, the arrears on two outstanding loans and what Ive seen in the bank
statements has led me to believe that Miss C was having current financial difficulties and it
wasnt appropriate to advance further lending to her because there was a real risk she
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
I am therefore upholding Miss Cs complaint about MoneyBoats decision to lend. And Ive
outlined later in this decision what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for her.
Debt Collection
Miss C has also said that she felt MoneyBoat put her under too much pressure to repay the
loan at the monthly contractual rate. And she said she was hounded with text messages and
emails even though she had explained that she was struggling.
Ive thought about what Miss S has said, while considering the notes provided by MoneyBoat
which showed each time it contacted her about the debt and having done so, I am intending
to not uphold this element of Miss Cs complaint.
There is a balance to be struck between a lender reasonably following up with its customer
about missed and late payments and excessive contact such that the owner of the debt feels
that this was too much to bear.
But there are regulations around how much contact there can be and Ive considered the
Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  this is the relevant
guidance and rules. CONC 7.9.4R says:
A firm must not contact customers at unreasonable times and must pay due regard to
the reasonable requests of customers (for example, customers who work in a shift
pattern) in respect of when, where and how they may be contacted.
Ive kept this in mind when thinking about the contact between MoneyBoat and Miss C.
From the notes its clear, that Miss C was struggling with the loan repayments from the start
and the first plan was put in place at the end of December 2021. And By February 2022, it
was clear from the evidence that Miss C provided MoneyBoat that she was having problems
paying her council tax and water bill.
At times MoneyBoat had attempted to call and speak to Miss C but I dont consider the
number of calls, or the time of day that it called to have been unreasonable. After all it was
trying to find out what was going on with Miss Cs finances.
I can also see that a number of repayment plans have been set up and amended at times
once MoneyBoat was aware of new information or that the previous plan was too expensive
 and I consider this a reasonable course of action.
Finally, there are emails between both parties but having read these, its clear that
MoneyBoat contacted Miss C to discuss her finances and to agree the various payment
plans that have been put in place. Having looked at the overall contacts between the twoparties I dont think they were excessive or unfair. This means I make no award against
MoneyBoat in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C agreed with the provisional decision findings and MoneyBoat said it had nothing 
further to add. I therefore, see no reason to depart from those previously made findings in 
this final decision. I still dont think MoneyBoat ought to have advanced the loan to Miss C for 
the same reasons that I gave in the provisional decision. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for Miss C. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Miss C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there
and not attempted to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss C may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application - which may or may not have been the same - is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a responsible lender
would have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not currently persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent to Miss C and it seems from the statement of account
provided by MoneyBoat even after the below redress is calculated an outstanding
balance will still likely remain due because Miss C hasnt yet paid MoneyBoat enough to 
have repaid the capital she initially borrowed.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if MoneyBoat is able to do
so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat cant buy the debt back, then
MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Miss C as though they had 
been repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss C having made overpayments 
then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest, less 
deductible tax* calculated from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss C and I would remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Miss C fairly and with forbearance and take account of what it was 
told in May 2023 about her mental health.
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file 
in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Cs 
complaint in part. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman