DRN-1221793
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that since he opened his account with Lloyds Bank PLC hed been charged 
excessively. He said this was only sorted out recently.
What happened
Mr S said bank charges applied to his account by Lloyds trapped him in a cycle of debt. He 
was struggling to pay basic bills, and had been in a debt management programme since 
2009. He wanted all the charges refunded, along with statutory interest.
Lloyds said that Mr S had opened his account in 2008. But it would only look back six years 
from when he made his complaint, which was April 2019. So it looked back to April 2013. 
Lloyds said that in the relevant period Mr S only incurred charges between July 2014 and 
December 2017. Those werent incurred every month, and Mr S always brought his account 
into credit if it did go overdrawn. Lloyds said all those charges were applied in line with the 
terms of Mr S's account. 
Lloyds also said that when it writes to customers about overdraft charges, it encourages then 
to get in touch if theyre having problems. But Mr S hadnt told it that he was having financial 
difficulties. Lloyds also said there were no signs on his account that he was having 
problems, like him failing to credit his account regularly, or a balance staying over an 
arranged overdraft facility for 30 days. 
Our investigator explained that we would only look at charges applied in the six years before 
Mr S made his complaint. 
She didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said a court case from 2009 meant 
that charges like these couldnt be challenged on the grounds of fairness. The charges had 
been applied in line with the terms of Mr Ss account, and in response to how he was using 
the account. She couldnt say Lloyds was wrong for not helping Mr S with his financial 
situation, because it didnt know abut it. So she wouldnt ask Lloyds to do any more.
Mr S said he was complaining that the charges were excessive. He thought they were 
disproportionate to the cost to the bank of telling him hed gone overdrawn or a direct debit 
hadnt cleared. He said the Office of Fair Trading thought that too before the Supreme 
Courts decision. He thought that case was lost on a legal technicality. He didnt think it was 
relevant that hed been told about the charges, he still thought they were much too high.
Our investigator said we did have to take the 2009 court case into account when looking at 
whether charges were fair or not. She hadnt changed her mind. Mr S said he wanted his 
case reviewed, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that our service will look at charges applied to Mr Ss account 
from April 2013. Thats what Ive done here. 
And our investigator explained that a court case some years ago means that our service 
cant say that charges for things like unauthorised overdrafts or unpaid items are unfair. I 
know Mr S thinks this case was lost on a technicality. But I have to take account of the 
relevant law in reaching my decision. And that case also means that we cant say that these 
payments were too high.
We can check if fees and charges have been applied in line with the terms of the account. I 
have looked at Mr Ss statements, and I havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds 
got this wrong.
Mr S thinks Lloyds shouldnt have charged him, because he was in financial difficulties and 
Lloyds was just making this worse. He told us Lloyds knew about his debt repayment plan. 
We do expect banks to treat customers positively and sympathetically once they know about 
financial difficulties. But Lloyds says that Mr S never told it that he was having financial 
difficulties. It says it just didnt know. Ive looked at Mr Ss account statements from when the 
account was open. And, although I can see that charges were applied in most months from 
August 2016 to the end of 2017, Mr S was also regularly bringing his account back into 
credit. I dont think that Lloyd ought to have realised from this that Mr S was having financial 
difficulties. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed, but Im not able to agree with him that the charges on his 
account were disproportionate. Ive considered his complaint as a whole, and I dont think 
Lloyds has to do more than this. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman