DRN-2861989
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O are unhappy about costs they incurred in attempting to verify their identities 
when they were redeeming their mortgage with Belmont Green Finance Limited.  
What happened
Mrs O and Mr O were re-mortgaging and wanted to redeem the loan they had with Belmont 
Green Finance Limited.
When their solicitors requested a redemption statement, Belmont required Mrs O and Mr O 
to verify their signatures on the redemption statement request. They incurred costs when 
Mr O arranged for their identities to be verified by a third party and sent the verified 
documents to Belmont by recorded delivery. 
Belmont didnt accept verification by the third party in question. But Mrs O and Mr Os 
identities were later checked in another way and Belmont issued a redemption statement.
Mrs O and Mr O felt Belmont hadnt explained properly what they needed. They wanted to 
be reimbursed for the money theyd spent with the third party.  And they werent happy with 
how long things had taken. Belmont said theyd explained things to Mr O over the phone 
when hed called them, and theyd processed the request within their timescales. They didnt 
uphold Mrs O and Mr Os complaint. 
Mrs O and Mr O brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Belmont 
had done anything wrong. Since Mrs O and Mr O werent happy with that outcome, Ive 
reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Mr O was managing the redemption process on his and Mrs Os 
behalf, and hes made the complaint on their joint behalves as well. So, for ease, and without 
intending to be discourteous to Mrs O, Ill refer to Mr O throughout this decision when 
mentioning the points theyve raised.
The redemption request signed by Mrs O and Mrs O was dated 14 December 2020. I note 
the declaration said that, if required, the request was to be taken as a months notice of their 
intention to redeem their account. So, although Belmont had said their turnaround time for 
actioning redemption statement requests was five working days, I dont think that was a 
guarantee a redemption statement would be issued within a five-day period. And Belmont 
explained it needed first to verify Mrs O and Mr Os identities.
Belmont reviewed the redemption request within five working days. This was in line with their 
timescales. And I dont think it was an unreasonable amount of time for them to take to 
review and respond to the request. Belmonts records suggest they made it sufficiently clear 
to Mr O on 18 December what they required to verify his and Mrs Os signatures  either an 
original passport or driving licence or copies certified by a solicitor. Belmont told Mrs O and 
Mr Os solicitors the same day this was what they needed.
Mr O was unhappy Belmont couldnt verify his and Mrs Os signatures from records they had 
when they took the mortgage out. Its not clear why Belmont werent able to do that. But, 
since they couldnt, I think it was reasonable, and in line with relevant regulations, for them to 
check Mrs O and Mr Os identities at redemption. 
Mrs O and Mr Os solicitors sent evidence to Belmont on or around 18 December. That 
hadnt reached the Belmont team that was dealing with the redemption request by the time 
Mr O spoke to them again on 21 December. Belmont explained the evidence would be in 
their system for scanning and couldnt be prioritised out of fairness to other customers. I 
dont think that was unreasonable. Although Mr Os said he was under pressure to complete 
the re-mortgage, I havent seen any evidence as to why his request should have been dealt 
with before those of other customers.
Mr O decided to go to the third party to arrange certified copies. Unfortunately, the third-party 
certification wouldnt have met Belmonts requirements and it seems Mr O hadnt sent it to 
the right Belmont office either. In the end, on 23 December, Mr O sent original documents to 
Belmont for them to check against his and Mrs Os signatures. Belmont issued a redemption 
statement and Mrs O and Mr Os account was redeemed on 24 December.
Mr O felt let down by Belmont. He feels Belmont wasted his time because they didnt let him 
know at the start what verification they needed. And he thinks Belmont should reimburse him 
for the costs he incurred in getting and sending in the verification from the third party. 
I acknowledge Mr Os strength of feeling about what happened and the pressure he felt 
when trying to get the re-mortgage through in the run up to the holiday period in December 
2020. But I dont think Belmont did anything wrong. They explained sufficiently clearly what 
verification they required, and they processed the request for a redemption statement within 
ten days of the original request, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. Bearing 
everything in mind, I dont uphold Mrs O and Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs O and Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman