DRN-3943620
The complaint
Miss L complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her on a credit card.
What happened
In September 2015 Miss L applied for an Aqua credit card account with NewDay, and
initially an opening credit limit of £250 was approved. Over the next four years the limit was
increased several times, so that by June 2019 it stood at £7,650. In 2020 Miss L twice
applied for a payment freeze, and after the second one finished an income and expenditure
form was completed. A reduced payment plan was then agreed for six months in 2021.
Miss L later complained that the lending had been unaffordable. She told NewDay that
throughout the period her sole source of income was benefits, which didnt increase, though
the lending did substantially. She said she applied for other cards with different lenders and
made balance transfers to try and stay on top of the borrowing  but eventually used the
credit limit again to pay for other debts and living expenses. Miss L believed NewDay ought
to have seen a pattern of unsustainable borrowing when it completed its credit checks  as
she was up to the limits and only making minimum payments on her other accounts. So it
shouldnt have approved any more lending.
NewDay responded to say it thought proportionate checks had been carried out at each limit
increase to ensure the lending was affordable. It said an in-depth evaluation was carried out
at each stage  which looked at a variety of things, including instances of exceeding the
limit, missed or late payments, proportion of credit utilised, and the reported status of
external accounts. NewDay added that having a low income wouldnt automatically be a
reason to decline borrowing, as people can have temporary decreases in income or be
taking steps to increase it.
Miss L wasnt happy with the response, so referred things to our service for review. An
investigator here didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. In his opinion, and having
reviewed Miss Ls bank statements, additional checks wouldnt have identified any issues
with affordability. Miss L didnt accept the investigators view on the complaint, so it was
passed to me for a decision on the matter.
I issued a provisional decision which said I intended to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ive 
copied below the part of my provisional findings which set out my rationale:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
 including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice  on our website. So I
wont repeat it all here. Bearing in mind that approach, I need to answer the following 
questions in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint:
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss L
would be able to afford to repay any borrowing on the card in a sustainable way?
If not, would proportionate checks have shown Miss L could afford the credit?
The rules and regulations in place during the life of the credit card account required NewDay
to carry out borrower-focused affordability assessments before lending, to check Miss L
was able to sustainably make any repayments due under the agreement. It wasnt enough
for the lender to only consider the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to be satisfied
Miss L would be able to meet repayments out of her income without undue difficulty. That
meant, for instance, without having to borrow elsewhere or renege on existing obligations.
Checks had to be proportionate  and what constitutes a proportionate affordability
assessment depends on a number of factors, including the amount being lent and a
customers particular personal circumstances. The lower a customers income and the
higher the potential amount that could be due under an agreement (particularly when
considered as proportion of their income) could be indicators that more thorough checks
might be needed before any borrowing was approved.
Ive reviewed the lending decisions that took place on Miss Ls NewDay account, and Ive
found that the limit increase in December 2017 was unaffordable. The available borrowing
on the card was increased at that point by £1,100 to a total of £3,450  an increase of almost
her entire monthly benefits income, to an overall limit of over a fifth of her annual income.
When combined with a high interest rate of 49.9% APR, I consider further checks were
needed before concluding this lending would likely be affordable  and Miss L would be able
to repay it in a sustainable way. Thats because it was looking unlikely on the face of it.
Prior to the previous credit increase in July 2017, Miss L had been up to her limit and making
minimum payments. Three months after that increase to a limit of £2,350 Miss L made a
balance transfer of £1,700 to another credit card, and then started to build up the borrowing
on her NewDay account again. Shed previously cleared the balance with a balance transfer
the year before  so I think a pattern was becoming evident. By the time NewDay approved
the £3,450 limit the balance was back up to £500, and her credit file would have been
showing two other open credit card accounts as well as a catalogue shopping account.
Miss L has detailed her income (through benefits) and her committed expenditure  and
going by her bank statements this hasnt changed much since 2015. This shows she had
around £300 left each month to repay any borrowing during the period she had the card. So,
bearing that in mind, I dont find that Miss L would have been able to sustainably afford even
the minimum repayments on all her borrowing if the remaining £3,000 available credit with
NewDay was utilised. Let alone repay any balances within a reasonable timescale. Prior to
that increase, and taking into account her existing lending elsewhere, I consider shed 
reached the limit on what she could affordably repay.
Overall, I dont think proportionate checks were carried out before the December 2017 limit
increase. Had they been, I find they would have shown Miss L couldnt afford that level of
lending. As I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss Ls credit limit above £2,350, I
dont think its fair for it to apply any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded
that limit. However, I think Miss L has had the benefit of all the money spent on the account
so I find she should pay this back  but in a way she can afford.
Miss L responded to say she accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add at that point, but might if NewDay made further submissions. NewDay didnt respond to 
the provisional decision by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having reviewed everything again, and given there hasnt been a response from NewDay, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I find that NewDay shouldnt have increased Miss Ls credit limit 
above £2,350  as the lending after that was unaffordable. That means I dont think its fair 
for NewDay to apply any charges or interest on any balances which exceeded the £2,350 
limit. Once those have been deducted from any outstanding balance, NewDay should also 
work with Miss L to determine an affordable way for her to repay the remaining money she 
spent on the account.  
Putting things right
Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £2,350.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss L along with 
8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after December 2017 regarding this account from Miss Ls credit file.
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss L for the remaining amount. Once Miss L has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after December 
2017 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must
give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Ls complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman