DRN-2898717
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has treated her during a 
period of financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2017 Ms P took out a loan with Barclays for around £5,000. Due to a change in her 
circumstances in late 2017 she started to experience financial difficulties and missed some 
contractual payments throughout 2018. By June 2019 she was six months in arrears and a 
default notice was issued.
From around July 2019 Barclays started working with Ms P to come to a suitable repayment 
arrangement for the outstanding arrears on her loan. It had been agreed she would enter 
into a resolve loan which would restructure her existing debt and allow her to repay it at a 
monthly rate more affordable to her and without incurring any interest.
Also in July 2019 Miss P returned to full time education and asked to switch her current 
account to a student account. As part of this switch Barclays agreed a temporary overdraft of 
£500 for three months. The purpose of this overdraft was to allow Ms P to transition to the 
resolve loan repayments that would soon be in place. According to Barclays records it was 
agreed she would reduce the overdraft by the time the first resolve loan payment was due in 
October 2019.
In October 2019 the resolve loan was in place. Ms P had not repaid the overdraft on her 
student account as planned by this date so the overdraft was removed and the debt formed 
part of the overall balance of the resolve loan. 
Ms P didnt make any payments to the resolve loan once it was in place. Barclays issued a 
default notice after six months of non-payment in April 2020. No payments were received 
after this date and in October 2020, after 12 months of non-payment, Barclays closed the 
account and passed the debt to a third party to pursue on its behalf.
Ms P complained to Barclays and said she felt theyd treated her unfairly during a period of 
financial difficulty. She also said that as she wasnt given the full £2,000 overdraft advertised 
for student accounts Barclays had discriminated against her under the Equality Act 2010 on 
the basis of her age.
Barclays felt it had treated Ms P fairly and didnt uphold her complaint. She brought the 
complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. As Ms P 
didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has Barclays treated Ms P fairly in light of her financial difficulties?
Its clear from the loan account statements, the copies of correspondence Ive seen was sent 
from Barclays and its contact notes Ms P was experiencing financial difficulties throughout 
2018 and 2019. Shes explained after the sudden death of her mother shed been unable to 
continue her education and her work had been intermittent and unpredictable. And whilst I 
do understand these circumstances were beyond her control and her financial difficulties 
were genuine, Barclays did have the right to try and discuss this with her and agree suitable 
repayment.
By June 2019 the loan shed taken out in 2017 was at least six months in arrears. In the 
following months, although Ms P did make some payment to the account, it wasnt the full 
contractual amount due  it was around £70 less in each month payment was made. And, 
Barclays contact notes reflect a conversation it had with Ms P in July 2019 where she 
confirmed she wasnt able to repay the arrears which at that point were over £2,000.
Due to the level of arrears and the fact that Ms P was still unable to make full payments, I 
think it was fair and reasonable Barclays started considering other options. One of these 
options was the resolve loan, which consolidated her debt, stopped all interest, and set up a 
new monthly repayment amount in line with what she could afford according to the income 
and expenditure information Ms P has provided. I think this was a fair and reasonable option 
in the circumstances.
Barclays records reflect that a resolve loan was discussed with Ms P and the terms were 
explained to her. And, I can see both the written terms of the resolve loan, and written 
confirmation the £500 overdraft was a temporary arrangement were sent to her correct 
address. She hasnt disputed this, so I have no reason to think she wasnt made aware of 
the terms of both the loan and the overdraft. The resolve loan was arranged and put in place 
from October 2019.
According to Barclays records, Ms P has never made any payment to the resolve loan. I can 
see it tried to contact Ms P to discuss this but it doesnt appear she was able to engage with 
it or offer repayment in line with the terms of the loan due to ongoing financial difficulties. 
And whilst I accept these financial difficulties were genuine and very difficult for Ms P, she 
still had an obligation to engage meaningfully with Barclays about the repayment of the 
money shed borrowed including if the revised arrangement was no longer affordable. 
Barclays sent Ms P an income and expenditure form in December 2019 to try and gain a 
better understanding of her financial position, but it appears she didnt complete and return 
this. And according to Barclays records, aside from a phone call in January 2020 when Miss 
P appears to have told Barclays she was unable to talk, it doesnt appear she made any 
other contact with it. So it doesnt appear Ms P did meaningfully engage with Barclays about 
her circumstances or let it know what her financial position was, in particular if that differed 
from the position shed been in when the resolve loan was agreed. 
After six months of non-payment a default notice was issued. In October 2020, after a year 
of non-payment from Ms P and no meaningful repayment proposals from her the bank 
closed the account and passed the debt to a third party. In the circumstances I think this was 
reasonable and I dont think it was treating her unfairly.
Ms P initially disputed that shed made no payment to the resolve loan. She told our 
investigator she would provide her own statements that showed she had made some 
payment. As this evidence hasnt been forthcoming Ive relied on Barclays records which 
show no payments were made.Ive carefully considered Ms Ps comments about how Barclays treated her. In particular she 
feels she shouldve been allowed the full £2,000 overdraft advertised for her student account 
which she says wouldve allowed her more flexibility around her debt. She hasnt said much 
about why she feels this is the case, but overall, I dont think Barclays has acted 
unreasonably in not offering further lending in the form of an overdraft given her overall 
financial circumstances, including her existing debt and financial difficulties.
After October 2019 Ms P didnt make any payment at all to Barclays for the debt she owed it. 
And based on what shes said this is because she had no disposable income available to 
make repayments. It wouldnt have been reasonable for Barclays to lend her money in the 
form of an overdraft in order to repay another debt also with Barclays  which wouldnt have 
actually reduced her overall debt. 
And whilst she may have preferred this option because it wouldve allowed her to have a 
debt that didnt require set monthly repayments (as is typical with most overdrafts), Ms P 
owed Barclays more than £2,000 overall. So the overdraft wouldnt have repaid her entire 
existing debt. In addition, in records of conversations with Barclays shes also talked about 
other arrears she has outside of her debt to Barclays, including utility bills and council tax, 
which would likely have needed to be a priority for repayment.
Ms P may feel she couldve used the overdraft to meet the monthly repayments on either the 
resolve loan, or her original loan, but as Ive mentioned above, it wouldnt have been 
reasonable or responsible for Barclays to have lent Ms P more money to repay what she 
already owed it. Overall, I think Barclays has treated Ms P fairly and reasonably after she 
was unable to repay her debt to it in line with the terms and conditions she agreed to.
Did Barclays discriminate against Ms P in not extending her overdraft?
Ms P has said Barclays decision not to allow her the full overdraft advertised for student 
accounts was made based on her age and this was age discrimination. Its not our role to 
say whether or not a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the courts. 
But, in considering whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what 
we consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So although its for a court to decide whether or not Ms P has been discriminated against on 
the basis of her age under the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take this into account as its 
relevant when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this particular case.
In July 2019 Ms P returned to full time education and wished to switch her current account to 
a student account. Barclays was satisfied she had managed her current account well and 
was happy to make this switch. However, she was already in considerable arrears with other 
debts at this point and Barclays was considering how best to support her with her overall 
debt and financial difficulties. The overdraft that comes with a student account is 
discretionary and always wouldve been subject to further checks before the lending was 
approved.
When the account was switched to a student account, Barclays has said the £500 overdraft 
provided was given as a temporary arrangement as part of a strategy to support Ms P with 
her financial difficulties. It was agreed this would be provided for three months and she 
would make repayments each month to reduce it in preparation for the resolve loan that was 
to be put in place by October 2019. Barclays records of the conversation that took place in 
branch with Ms P reflect this, and a letter was sent to her in August 2019 confirming this, so I 
think its likely Ms P was given clear information about what would happen with the overdraft.In October 2019, the overdraft facility was removed from the account and her overdrawn 
balance formed part of the resolve loan as planned. 
One of the terms of the resolve loan Ms P entered into in October 2019 is that no further 
lending would be available to her. This is reasonable, given the loan has been put in place 
due to her financial difficulties. Increasing Ms Ps overdraft would have been offering her 
additional lending after the resolve loan, and when she was making no payments towards 
her debt. So I think the decision not to do this was reasonable, and in line with what Ms P 
agreed to when she took out the resolve loan.
And, even without the specific terms of the resolve loan, given the clear financial difficulties 
Ms P was in, for the reasons already given, I dont think it wouldve been responsible for 
Barclays to have offered her further lending. 
Overall I think Barclays decision not to extend Ms Ps overdraft was made on the basis of 
affordability, not because of any other factors such as Ms Ps age as she has suggested. 
And as I havent seen anything to suggest Ms Ps age was a factor in this decision, I dont 
think Barclays has treated Ms P unfairly or any differently to any other customer in the same 
financial position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman