DRN-4222771
The complaint
Mrs J complains through a representative that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
without carrying proportionate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mrs J took 10 loans from Morses and Ive outlined a summary of her borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 15/03/2016 04/05/2017 33 £20.00
2 £300.00 02/06/2016 01/11/2017 33 £15.00
3 £200.00 03/08/2016 22/08/2017 33 £10.00
4 £300.00 01/11/2017 18/07/2018 33 £15.00
5 £300.00 18/07/2018 18/09/2018 33 £15.00
6 £400.00 12/12/2018 21/08/2019 33 £20.00
7 £400.00 21/08/2019 03/06/2020 33 £20.00
8 £400.00 03/06/2020 22/01/2021 34 £20.00
9 £600.00 22/01/2021 01/03/2022 53 £21.00
10 £630.00 09/08/2022 outstanding 52 £22.68
Following Mrs Js representatives complaint, Morses issued its final response letter saying 
all complaints had been paused due to it trying to agree a Scheme of Arrangement with the 
regulator at the time. Mrs Js representative then referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who said given the proposed term of the 
Scheme of Arrangement she couldnt consider loans 1  9. However, she thought loan 10  
which could be considered - ought to not have been granted as it was clear that the lending 
was now harmful for Mrs J. 
Mrs J, through her representative accepted the adjudicators findings.  
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment despite being prompted for a 
response and being given extra time. As Morses hasnt responded to the adjudicators 
assessment, to bring this matter to a close, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Js income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs J. These factors include:
Mrs J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs J. The adjudicator thought this 
point was reached by the time loan 10 was granted. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs J could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs J was able to repay
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Js complaint.
Morses proposed a Scheme of Arrangement in and by doing so, it would mean that certain 
unaffordable lending complaints would have to be considered under an agreed set of rules 
within the Scheme. 
The Scheme was approved in Court and became effective on 30 May 2023. This means, 
that a complaint about unaffordable lending that was made to Morses after 
11 August 2022 (which is the case here) about lending between 1 April 2007 to 
2 August 2022 would have to be considered by the Scheme. 
In Mrs Js case that means she will (if she hasnt already done so) need to apply to the 
Scheme for it consider loans 1  9. As this Scheme has now been ratified and is in place, the 
Financial Ombudsman cant consider those loans for Mrs J.  But a complaint about loan 10 
has been considered. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment, so I dont know what, if anything, it 
thinks the adjudicator may have missed. And Mrs J has accepted the adjudicators findings. 
So, this decision will focus on whether Morses did all it ought to have done before advancing 
loan 10. Loan 10
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did before each loan which included 
asking Mrs J for details of her income and expenditure, Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs J, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 10. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs J had taking out 10 loans in over six years. So Morses ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs J was having to borrow further to 
cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
I accept there was a gap in lending before loan 10 was granted. But in this case 
I dont think this ought to have led to a resetting of the lending chain. I say this 
because this was Mrs Js largest loan to date, she had been borrowing from Morses 
for over six years and it had taken Mrs J longer to repay seven of the previous nine 
loans. But even removing this gap from the total time Mrs J had been indebted this 
still meant it was her tenth loan in six years of borrowing. 
From the first loan, Mrs J was generally provided with a new loan shortly after the 
previous loan had been repaid and / or she had loans running concurrently, for 
example, before loan seven was granted on the same day loan six was repaid. To 
me, at times, the quick up take in borrowing is a sign that Mrs J was using these 
loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Mrs Js first loan was for £400 and loan 10 was more than 50% more at £630.  At this 
point Morses ought to have known that Mrs J was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 10 was 
taken out over just over six years after Mrs Js first loan and was to be repaid over a 
longer term of a year. Her final loan was also the largest capital loan. So, Mrs J had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs J lost out when Morses provided loan 10 because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs J borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint about loan 10 and Ive outlined below what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan 10 to Mrs J, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mrs J may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs J loan 10. It isnt clear from the information that has been 
provided whether loan 10 has been repaid (or not). So, Ive made sure the redress reflects 
that. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should it back if Morses is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs J as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs J 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs J. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs J. 
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing for loan 10 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Mrs Js credit file. 
Morses doesnt have to remove loan 10 from Mrs Js credit file until it has been 
repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses
should give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs J as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman