DRN-2714469
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cater Allen Limited allowed Corporate Trustees to debit his account 
without permission. 
What happened
Mr S opened an account with Cater Allen as part of a SIPP, operated by a Corporate 
Trustee. When Mr S opened the account, the application said both he and the Corporate 
Trustee had to authorise withdrawals for various reasons. But the account terms said the 
Corporate Trustee could authorise the payment of fees from the account without Mr S 
involvement. 
In April 2020 Mr S contacted Cater Allen and told it not to authorise any further payments to 
the Corporate Trustee as he was concerned about its actions. But, in May 2020, the 
Corporate Trustee claimed around £5,000 for fees and Cater Allen approved the payment. 
Mr S complained, but Cater Allen didnt agree an error had been made. Cater Allen 
apologised that Mr S wasnt told the Corporate Trustee could claim fees without recourse to 
him. Cater Allen confirmed it couldnt stop future fees being taken if the requests were 
completed in line with the account mandate. In addition, Cater Allen said it couldnt remove 
the existing Corporate Trustee without replacing it with another. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission, Cater Allen made Mr S an offer to pay him £100 because it failed to notify him 
that despite making contact in April 2020, there was nothing it could do to stop the Corporate 
Trustee from charging fees in line with the account mandate. The investigator thought Cater 
Allens offer was fair but Mr S asked to appeal. As Mr S asked to appeal his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset. He has pointed out that Cater Allens regular 
correspondence advises him to make contact if his relationship with the Corporate Trustee 
has changed. And in April 2020 Mr S told Cater Allen not to approve payments from his 
SIPP account without his permission. The Corporate Trustee later collected fees and I can 
understand why Mr S feels thats unfair.
The issue I have is that the account mandate Mr S accepted when he agreed to open the 
account says both he and the Corporate Trustee have to authorise transactions from his 
SIPP account. But, theres a specific provision that says the Corporate Trustee can request 
payment of fees based on its sole authority. So whilst I agree Cater Allen wasnt allowed to 
approve various sorts of transactions without Mr S involvement, it required able to pay fees 
at the request of the Corporate Trustee  which is what happened in this case. 
Cater Allen has provided systems evidence that shows the Corporate Trustee named on his 
application and account mandate was the party that requested fees on 26 May 2020. As the 
mandate allows the Corporate Trustee to request fees without recourse to Mr S, I dont 
agree Cater Allen made a mistake by approving the payment. Cater Allen has confirmed it 
couldnt block the payment as it was collected in line with the account terms and mandate 
and I agree thats the case. 
Cater Allen has offered Mr S £100 to apologise that it didnt specifically warn him that the 
Corporate Trustee could collect fees from the account without his authorisation. But, as Ive 
said above, even if Cater Allen had told Mr S that the mandate allowed the Corporate 
Trustee to collect fees, it still wouldnt have been able to block the payment. Whilst I 
understand Mr S feels he gave fair warning to Cater Allen of the change in his relationship 
with the Corporate Trustee, it was still able to collect fees from his account. Im satisfied that 
the £100 Cater Allen has offered Mr S for failing to give him a full picture of how fees can be 
collected when he called in April 2020 is fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Cater 
Allens offer is fair, Im not increasing the settlement of telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Cater Allen Limited to pay Mr S £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman