DRN-2848282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ulster Bank Ltd put a block on a number of their accounts and 
wouldnt remove this restriction until they provided identification.
The complaint is on behalf of Mr and Mrs S. But most of our dealings have been with Mr S, 
so Ill mainly just refer to him below. 
What happened
Mr S tried to make a transaction on his debit card on 18 June. Ulster Bank said it would send 
a code via text message to his phone to confirm the transaction was genuine. Mr S says he 
didnt have any mobile network signal, so he called Ulster Bank. Mr S says the agent spoke 
too quickly, refused to repeat himself and eventually cut him off. Ulster Bank says Mr S 
wasnt able to pass its security checks at this time, so a block was put on a number of his 
accounts. This also meant he wouldnt be able to see or operate them using online banking.
Mr S called an Ulster Bank branch the following day. Ulster Bank explained to Mr S that he 
should take two forms of ID into a branch to have the stop on the account removed. Mr S 
says he wasnt able to attend a branch, so he was given the option of taking a selfie with 
the two forms of ID and sending this via email. Mr S complained to Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank responded to Mr S on 23 June and in two subsequent letters over the following 
few days. It explained that as Mr S wasnt able to pass security on 18 June, he would need 
to provide ID either in person, or via email as explained above. It accepted that Mr S wasnt 
provided with the level of service he shouldve expected and offered a total of £55 
compensation and £5.40 for phone call costs. 
Mr S didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He thought Ulster Bank had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions. He noted it appeared that the stops had been removed from the account in 
September 2020. He wasnt persuaded this had had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ss credit file. 
He thought the compensation paid was fair in the circumstances for potentially poor 
customer service and, overall, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S didnt accept this and provided a number of detailed responses. He said, in summary:
Ulster Bank identified Mr S on 19 June and as such knew there was no fraud from 
this date;
Ulster Banks terms and conditions didnt allow it to continue to block access to 
multiple accounts beyond 19 June;
Ulster Bank hadnt provided a copy of the original call between it and Mr S on 18 
June.  
Ulster Bank removed the block on the account on 29 September without receiving ID 
from Mr or Mrs S and Ulster Bank hadnt informed them that the block had been 
removed.
Mr and Mrs S requested the complaint be considered by an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has submitted his complaint to Ulster Bank, to our service, and responded to our 
investigators opinion, in great detail. Whilst Ive read and considered everything hes said, I 
wont be responding in the same level of detail. Nor will I address every single point hes 
made. Instead, Ill be focussing my decision on the crux of this complaint  the restrictions 
placed on Mr and Mrs Ss accounts and Ulster Banks refusal to remove the restrictions 
without Mr S verifying his identity. I hope Mr S realises I mean no disrespect by this, but it 
simply reflects the quick and informal nature of our service. 
Ulster Bank, like all other banks, has systems which flag transactions which may be 
fraudulent. Of course, this means that sometimes genuine transactions can be caught by this 
and additional security measures may be required before further transactions can be 
allowed. And it seems that is what has occurred in this situation. 
Its unfortunate that we dont have a copy of the initial phone call between Mr S and Ulster 
Bank. Mr S thinks Ulster Bank is trying to conceal something by not providing this. Ulster 
Bank says it simply cant locate the call. In situations like this, where whats been said is in 
doubt, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider 
most likely to have happened given the evidence I do have. Mr S has said he wasnt happy 
with the call handler, and Ulster Bank have accepted his testimony on this point and 
provided £55 compensation plus the cost of the call. Based on what hes told us, Im willing 
to accept that the customer service wasnt up to the standard expected in this situation. 
However, I note that Mr S spoke with Ulster Bank the following day, was told what he 
needed to do to unblock the account, and this was reconfirmed to him a few days later in 
Ulster Banks final response. So, I think the compensation already paid is fair in the 
circumstances.
Moving on to the continued restrictions on Mr and Mrs Ss accounts. Mr S says that Ulster 
Banks terms and conditions dont oblige it to require identification and a fraud interview. Ive 
seen no evidence of Ulster Bank requiring or asking Mr and Mrs S to attend a fraud 
interview. From what Ive seen, Mr S was asked to attend a branch to provide identification. 
Its possible Mr S assumed a fraud interview would take place, but I think this is a 
misunderstanding on his part. I havent seen anything to suggest Ulster Bank led him to think 
this. 
The accounts terms and conditions state:
We may suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such as 
your debit card or online banking) if:
 we reasonably believe that your security details or debit card details havent been kept 
safe;
 we reasonably suspect that your security details or your debit card have been used
fraudulently or without your permission
These terms allow Ulster Bank to put the stop on Mr and Mrs Ss accounts in situations such 
as this one. Procedures such as this are put in place to protect consumers from 
unauthorised transactions. The terms are broad and do not set out the specifics of what is required to reinstate access to an account. Its not unusual for banks to not publish their 
security procedures, for obvious reasons. And they can vary in individual circumstances. So 
whilst I agree with Mr S that the terms and conditions dont oblige Ulster Bank to require 
identification in a situation like this, it doesnt mean they cant ask for it or that its 
unreasonable to do so. 
Whilst the need for ID may not be set out within the terms and conditions, this doesnt mean 
Ulster Bank cant ask for it in situations such as this. A banks security procedures arent 
typically fully published for obvious reasons. I dont think that the request to provide ID is an 
unreasonable one or a particularly difficult one to comply with. Mr S says this wasnt 
necessary as he identified himself the day after the transaction which triggered this issue. It 
may be that he identified himself during a phone call. But Ulster Bank asked Mr and Mrs S 
for further information to reactivate the account as part of its security procedures. Im 
satisfied the decision to ask for ID from Mr S is a reasonable one which Ulster bank is 
entitled to make. I know Mr S says hed provided ID recently, but that was likely for another 
reason. This time, it was being asked to confirm that the account use was genuine.
Mr S was clearly unhappy about the request to provide ID again and didnt want to visit a 
branch. So, he was provided with another option to have the security block removed which 
involved sending an email with copies of the ID. All Mr S needed to do was provide two 
forms of ID, either in person, or from home by email. I dont think this request was either 
unreasonable or arduous, and couldve been completed by Mr S very quickly to have 
avoided the restrictions remaining on his account for longer than necessary. Its unclear why 
Mr S refused to do so. 
The restrictions were removed on 29 September. Ulster Bank says this was following Mr S 
providing ID to a branch. Mr S says he didnt visit a branch but instead was in contact via 
email. Its unclear what did actually happen, but its clear from the contact notes provided by 
Ulster Bank that the branch was satisfied Mr S had identified himself and asked for the 
restrictions to be removed from his account. Ultimately, this is what Mr S wanted, so seems 
fair in the circumstances. Whilst Mr S is unhappy that it took this long, the restrictions 
couldve been removed much sooner had he provided the ID as requested. And as Mr S 
says he still hasnt provided ID, the restrictions couldve well stayed in place. 
I know Mr S was unhappy that he says he wasnt told that the restrictions had been 
removed, and this is unfortunate. But I can see from the transaction history provided by 
Ulster Bank that Mr S made a number of transactions using both his debit card and online 
banking just a few days after the restrictions had been removed. So, it seems likely he was 
aware that the restrictions had been removed from his account, if not immediately, then very 
soon after.
Mr S wants reassurance that further issues such as this wont occur in the future. 
Unfortunately, this isnt something our service can provide. We arent the industry regulator, 
meaning we cant tell a business to change its processes. We can only get involved after a 
consumer has made a complaint to a business. Of course, we do hope businesses will take 
into account when we think it has got things wrong and make changes if necessary. But we 
cant compel businesses to make systemic changes to prevent the same thing happening.
My final decision
Whilst I recognise the strength of feeling Mr S has in relation to this complaint, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman