DRN-2926346
The complaint
Mr S complains that My Finance Club Limited was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with a loan for £372 by My Finance Club in August 2020. The repayment 
amount of £485 was repayable after 38 days. Mr S says that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the loan was provided and that his credit score was very poor. He thinks 
that had proper checks been carried out he wouldnt have been provided the loan.
My Finance Club issued a final response letter not upholding Mr S complaint. It said that 
before the loan was provided affordability and credit assessments took place and that Mr S 
declared a monthly income of £2,400 and this amount was verified. It said Mr S provided 
information about his expenses and said he was living with parents which it validated 
through electoral roll information and that he had no dependents. It said the credit search 
carried out didnt raise and concerns. 
Mr S didnt agree with My Finance Clubs response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think there was anything in the 
information that My Finance Club received that meant further verification was required.
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said he was rejected by other lenders at the 
time of the loan due to his credit history and that had adequate checks taken place he 
wouldnt have been provided the loan by My Finance Club.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payment 
was affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayment. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayment 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayment without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was provided with only one loan by My Finance Club. As part of the application process 
information was gathered about Mr S monthly income. This was recorded as £2,400 and 
this amount was verified. Mr S also provided information about his expenses and a credit 
check took place. Having looked at the information provided I do not think this raised 
concerns that meant further verification was required. As this was only the first loan provided 
to Mr S I think it reasonable that My Finance Club relied on the information it received and as 
this suggested the loan was affordable for Mr S, I do not find I have enough to says this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
If the loan is still outstanding the loan is still outstanding, we would expect My Finance Club 
to work with Mr S to agree an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against My Finance Club Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman