DRN-3236831
The complaint
The estate of Mr Q has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
could find no trace of two policies held by Mr Q.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The two polices in question were taken out in 1929 and 1944. I accept that they 
existed at some time and that Mr M, on behalf of the estate, sent evidence of that to 
Royal London. Following a search Royal London explained that they could find no 
trace of the policies, which they said would indicate that they had been claimed on in 
the past or lapsed as they have a record of all live policies from 1900. I find that was 
a reasonable conclusion to draw.
Our investigator asked Royal London to make further searches, using details other 
than the policy numbers. These searches were conducted but nothing was relating to 
these policies was found. Again, I find it was reasonable to undertake the further 
searches to ensure that the policies couldnt be found using other data.
I appreciate that Mr M, on behalf of the estate, had a responsibility as executor to 
make these enquiries about these policies. I understand too that the response from 
Royal London would have been frustrating. Nevertheless Im satisfied that Royal 
London made appropriate searches based on the information they were given, so I 
dont find that they have done anything wrong. As our investigator explained there is 
no obligation on Royal London to keep customer information indefinitely, they are 
generally only required to keep historic information for six years. 
I accept Mr Ms point on behalf of the estate that one of the policies was still live and 
had a value in 2006. I havent disregarded his reasoning but this still doesnt lead me 
to conclude that its more likely than not that the policy is live today.
My final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman
