DRN-3716394
The complaint
Ms R has complained about a payment on her debit card with Monzo Bank Ltd. She said she 
didnt authorise it as in she never made any payment to the merchant listed on her account. 
and so, she wants it refunded.
What happened
Ms R was on holiday abroad. When checking her mobile banking online, she noticed a card
payment for £194.38 which she didnt recognise. She thought the name suggested it was a
payment to a merchant based in the area she was staying, but who she had never visited
either on the day in question or otherwise. She reported it to Monzo who established she still
had her debit card with her and that she had not given it or the PIN to anyone else.
Ms R was also to able to provide evidence that the merchant she thought the payment
related to didnt have any record of payments from Ms Rs card.
Later Ms R remembered she hadnt shared a taxi with some friends to go back to her
accommodation that night, as she had said originally to Monzo, but had actually got a taxi on
her own back to her accommodation. She said she had heard it was a common scam for taxi
drivers to set whatever name they wish for their payment machine, and to then overcharge.
She thought that may have happened to her.
Ms R also complained about the number of people she had to speak to in Monzo over this
with most of this taking place whilst she was still on holiday. Her complaint was re-opened by
mistake causing additional confusion.
Monzo said, as her card and PIN were used correctly, and she still had her card with her
after the transaction, it was likely she authenticated and consented to the transaction as
detailed in the relevant regulations. Therefore, it was under no duty to refund her the
transaction. It agreed it shouldnt have re-opened her complaint and it agreed to pay her £50
compensation for the confusion this caused.
Ms R remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator was also of the 
view that it shouldnt be upheld. Consequently, Ms R asked for an ombudsman to review her
complaint and the matter was then transferred to me, to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2022. And I said the following: 
First, I do understand and appreciate that Ms R will be very disappointed with my 
decision.
However, the regulations under which complaints of this nature are decided are clear 
in their remit of what banks like Monzo should or shouldnt do in varying scenarios.
Secondly, I consider it is more likely that not that the disputed transaction happened 
in the taxi Ms R took on the night in question, rather than at the merchants premises 
(or somewhere else). This seems the most plausible explanation, bearing in mind 
what we know about her movements that night as well as the information she 
provided from the merchant she contacted. Ive not seen anything substantial to 
suggest the card was cloned, nor that someone else would have known her PIN to 
make the payment. As she now thinks she got a taxi home by herself and could have 
paid by card but not realised the amount had been increased, I accept this 
explanation.
The regulations applicable are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). As 
the investigator explained in her view the starting position is that a customer isnt 
liable for any transaction they didnt authorise, so the bank should refund such 
unauthorised payments. Authorisation of a payment involves both consent and 
authentication. Monzo has provided records to show the payment was properly 
authenticated using chip and PIN. And that doesnt seem to be in dispute  especially 
as it now seems accepted this was likely a taxi transaction which Ms R used her card 
and PIN to pay for. So, the key here is whether Ms R consented to the payment.
Consent has a specific meaning under the PSRs which isnt open to interpretation. It 
has to do with the process followed, as set out in the account terms, to make a 
payment. Put simply, if Ms R (or someone acting with her authority) was the one who 
put the card in the payment terminal and entered the PIN, then she has consented to 
it. And it seems likely thats what Ms R did here, as she believed she was paying a 
taxi fare (but in a much lesser sum than that which was charged to her card).
It seems likely to me that Ms R didnt notice the amount she was being charged for 
her taxi fare and it was increased very likely by adding another zero, given what she 
has explained the taxi fare was likely to have been for her journey. However not 
noticing the amount because Ms R had been out for the evening with friends doesnt 
negate her authorisation (including consent) for the transaction under the regulations. 
Consent under the PSRs isnt the same as Ms R knowing precisely who was 
charging her and the amount being charged. Simply by using her card and PIN which 
then instructs her bank to make the payment means under these regulations that she 
authorised the payment, even if she was tricked about the amount she was paying.
The PSRs put no onus on Monzo to refund her in these circumstances. Therefore, I 
have to conclude that Ms Rs complaint cannot be upheld. Simply put, Monzo is not 
responsible for the scam that this taxi driver exerted on Ms R late at night on her way 
home alone from a night out with friends on holiday. Particularly as the payment 
didnt otherwise appear particularly suspicious, given it was properly verified by the 
chip and PIN in Ms Rs card, which she hadnt lost or mislaid, and was made from the 
same location as other spending by Ms R around that time.
As regards the service Ms R received, I agree with the investigator that Monzo 
followed its own procedures efficiently and promptly once Ms R report the matter to it. 
I dont consider it caused any unnecessary delays either. I consider that Monzo 
explained properly why it was necessary for Ms R to have to speak to several 
different people and I also understand how that might not be ideal too, but I dont 
consider it was unfair or unreasonable. It quickly noted that re-opening Ms Rs 
complaint by mistake did cause confusion and I consider the amount of £50 as 
compensation that it offered is reasonable.
Neither Monzo nor Ms R had anything further to add following my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view as expressed in my provisional decision that Im 
not upholding this complaint. This is because neither Ms R nor Monzo had anything further 
to add
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman