DRN-1689111
 
The complaint
Mr J complains Tandem Bank Limited didnt tell him the terms and conditions of his one year 
fixed term saving account had changed, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr J opened a one year fixed term saving account with Bank H. Bank H 
was acquired by Tandem and on 17 September 2018 Tandem wrote to Mr J. It said his 
account would mature on 16 October 2018 so he should complete an options form, and it set 
out some changes to the terms and conditions of its fixed saving accounts. Mr J completed 
the options form, signing to say he wanted to reinvest part of his funds into his fixed saver 
account and that he accepted the terms and conditions.
Tandem wrote to Mr J on 16 September 2019 to say his account would mature on 16 
October 2019 and that On maturity, you can either re-invest all of your savings in a new 
Fixed Saver or withdraw them to your linked current account. Mr J thought this meant he 
could reinvest his original sum plus the interest and additional funds so he called Tandem on 
19 September 2019 to do this. But it said its terms had changed over the last year or two so 
he could only reinvest his original sum. And that if Mr J wanted to also invest the interest and 
additional funds, hed have to withdraw everything and open a new fixed term account at a 
lower rate of interest. Mr J said hed think about it.
Mr J went on to reinvest his original sum with Tandem. And he complained Tandem hadnt 
also let him reinvest the interest plus additional funds, and hadnt told him in writing about 
the changes to his account terms. In response, Tandem said the terms of the account Mr J 
took in October 2018 didnt allow interest to be reinvested and it told him about the changes 
then. And that when its maturity letters say reinvesting in full, they mean only the original 
sum after maturity, as the interest would already be paid out to a separate account. It also 
said its agents had given Mr J correct information when he called.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service, saying Tandems response didnt address it not 
telling him about the changes before he called on 19 September 2019. He said Tandem 
caused him a financial loss because if it had told him about the changes in writing before 
then, he would have invested elsewhere with a better interest rate.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She thought Tandems letter of 17 
September 2018 made the changed terms clear, and it hadnt contradicted this in its letter 
dated 16 September 2019 or in calls in the weeks after.
Mr J disagreed. He said Tandem let him reinvest his original sum plus the interest and 
additional funds in October 2018 and should have told him he couldnt do this anymore 
before 16 October 2019. He said his Call Deposit Account was still open despite Tandem 
saying he cannot include additional funds or have interest paid to his Call Deposit Account, 
as it had simplified things and removed it. And he said Tandem had been misleading and 
unclear, and its agents gave conflicting advice.As Mr J disagreed, his complaint has been referred to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr J but Ill explain my reasons
Mr J says Tandem didnt tell him in advance he couldnt reinvest interest and additional 
funds. But Mr J gave us a copy of a letter Tandem sent him on 17 September 2018. The 
letter essentially asks whether Mr J wants to invest again with Tandem. And it says Tandem 
has made changes to its fixed savings accounts, that the details were in the attached terms 
and conditions but in summary the changes included:
removing the option to choose to have interest paid into your fixed term account to 
be compounded over the terms of your product.
we no longer allow you to top up your maturing balance ahead of re-investment. The 
maximum you can reinvest is the original amount you invested with us. 
 
So Im satisfied Tandem told Mr J clearly and in advance that its accounts were changing 
and this would affect what he could choose to do - if he invested with Tandem again - when 
his new investment matured in October 2019. Mr J accepted these changes when he signed 
the options form on 3 October 2018  just above his signature the form says By signing this 
application form, you confirm that: you have received and read the Fixed Saver Terms and 
Conditions; the Product Summary Box; and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
Information Sheet.
I acknowledge Mr J might have thought Tandems letter dated 16 September 2019 meant he 
could reinvest not only the original sum but also the interest and additional funds. But the 
letter doesnt mention any option to reinvest the interest or additional funds, instead it says 
On maturity, you can either re-invest all of your savings in a new Fixed Saver or withdraw 
them to your linked current account. And as Ive said, Tandem had in any case already told 
Mr J about the changes in its letter of 17 September 2018, which Mr J accepted by signing 
the options form. So I dont think Tandem gave Mr J any conflicting information in this letter.
And I dont think it gave him any conflicting information about his account in the calls Ive 
listened to. On 19 September 2019, so before he chose to commit to his Tandem account for 
another year, it told him the terms had changed and he couldnt reinvest interest or 
additional funds. And when he called to complain on 10 October 2019, it told him this again.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Tandem told Mr J its terms and conditions were 
changing before he signed up to those changes. So I cant fairly say Tandem caused the 
financial loss Mr J believes hes suffered.
Mr J has said that in October 2018 Tandem let him reinvest his original sum plus interest 
and additional funds. While I acknowledge what Mr J says, from the evidence provided to 
me, Ive not seen that this is the case. But even if it was, Mr J hasnt suggested he has been 
financially disadvantaged by that. And as Ive said, Im satisfied Tandem clearly let Mr J 
know in September 2018 that its accounts terms and conditions were changing.
Mr J has also said his Call Deposit Account is still open despite Tandem telling him he 
cannot include additional funds or have interest paid to his Call Deposit Account, as Tandem 
has simplified things and removed it. Ive not seen that Mr J has complained to Tandem 
about this, so I wont address it in this decision. Mr J would instead need to raise a complaint about that with Tandem first. And if he wasnt satisfied with its response, he could then bring 
his complaint to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman