DRN-3733647
The complaint
Mr H complains that Symphony Financial Advisers Limited (SFA) gave him unsuitable advice 
about his pension arrangements and, in particular, using tax free cash to fund expenditure. 
What happened
In December 2014 Mr Hs pension fund had a value of £714,000 which included protected 
tax free cash of £254,000. Following advice from his pension provider Mr H decided to take 
the tax free cash and transfer the residual fund value of approximately £460,000 into a SIPP 
(self invested personal pension) with the same provider. SFA advised Mr H about the 
investment of the funds withdrawn and those held in the SIPP. SFA recommended the 
appointment of a DFM (Discretionary Fund Manager). The £254,000 was to be invested in 
Mr Hs and his wifes joint names in a General Investment Account (GIA) and two ISAs 
(£15,000 each). Mr H was still working and didnt need any income at that time. 
Over the years SFA gave further advice to Mr H, including a recommendation in 2016 to 
transfer another uncrystallized personal pension plan (worth £229,592) held with the same 
provider into Mr Hs SIPP.  
At about the time of his 60th birthday in April 2017 Mr H was no longer working and 
discussed with SFA his income and spending requirements. From about mid 2017 Mr H 
went on to make a number of withdrawals from his GIA and ISAs to meet income and 
expenditure requirements. In 2019 Mr H had returned to work part time, earning just under 
£30,000 pa gross. 
In March 2021 Mr H wrote to SFA expressing concern that he had virtually no tax free cash 
left. He said over the last four financial years hed withdrawn some £330,000 tax free cash 
plus £40,000 the year before. Amongst other things Mr H said he now regretted some of his 
spending decisions but he felt thered been a lack of discussion or cautionary advice  he 
said hed simply asked for the cash and been given it. 
In response SFA outlined review meetings held with Mr H and discussions about 
withdrawals with SFAs adviser and Mr Hs DFM. SFA said both had expressed concern to 
Mr H about the level of withdrawals. 
SFA said that in January 2019 the adviser hadnt recommended income withdrawals as hed 
understood these would trigger the reduced Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA) and 
restrict Mr Hs ability to make further pension contributions  Mr H had confirmed he was 
looking for part time work which he expected to provide an income of around £30,000 pa 
gross. SFA said that didnt apply to Mr Hs Capped Drawdown arrangement and in fact he 
couldve taken income and contributed the lower of up to 100% of his earnings or £40,000 
pa. But Mr H had wanted to withdraw £20,000 and that wouldve meant income tax charges. 
Plus it wouldve reduced the value of his fund, put more pressure on it and eroded its value 
more quickly when Mr H had other funds he could access. 
SFA said it tried to action withdrawals for clients but, before doing so, considered the 
material facts such as the clients tax position, investment strategy, risk and longevity. SFA 
said it had provided Mr H with sufficient warnings about the size and frequency of his 
withdrawal requests, including the likely pressure on fund performance, the likely need to 
alter the investment strategy, the impact of income tax and the possibility that Mr Hs funds 
would run out earlier than expected. 
But SFA recognised that for two tax years Mr H shouldve been advised to make use of his 
personal allowance to withdraw income in a tax efficient manner and so preserve his tax free 
cash. SFA apologized and made an offer of, in total, £2,500.  
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. It was investigated by one 
of our investigators but he didnt uphold it. In summary he said Mr H had regular meetings 
with SFA about his pension arrangements. In 2017 SFA confirmed that Mr H should leave 
funds in his plan in case he went back to work. The investigator referred to an email Mr H 
sent in July 2018 about his spending plans for the next five years. The investigator didnt 
think Mr H couldve achieved what he wanted to without using his tax free cash. SFA had 
regularly wanted Mr H about the high level of withdrawals and that high expenditure could 
exhaust the fund by the time Mr H reached age 80. The falls in investment values triggered 
by Covid couldnt have been predicted. Mr H had funds in an ISA which could be used in an 
emergency. And, in any event, it seemed the value of his fund had recovered. 
As to the offer made, SFA had reviewed Mr Hs income tax returns and accepted that for two 
tax years there was some unused personal allowance where Mr H couldve taken income of 
£11,291 tax free. SFA had calculated, to draw the same in future years, hed be taxed 
£2,258.20 which SFA had agreed to refund with a further £241.80 as a gesture of goodwill. 
The investigator considered that fair and reasonable and he didnt think SFA needed to do 
any more. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. He made a number of more general points before commenting about the tax free 
cash and why he considered he was over exposed to the investment market. He also 
supplied an annotated copy of the investigators view with comments on some of the 
investigators conclusions. 
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. Im sorry that its 
has taken longer than wed have liked to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As to the basis on which I reach my decision, Im required by DISP (Dispute Resolution) 
3.6.1R to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case. And DISP 3.6.4R says, in considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the ombudsman will take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what the ombudsman considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. 
Mr H has referred to the duty of care owed to clients. I think thats encompassed in the 
COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) rules and the wider provisions such as the 
regulators Principles for Businesses. 
I think the central issue is whether SFA gave suitable advice to Mr H. In most situations 
there will be a range of solutions and advice that might be given. Different advisers may have a slightly different approach and may favour certain products or solutions. The question 
isnt whether different advice might have worked out better for the consumer. Its whether 
what was recommended was suitable at the time. As well as considering the suitability of 
advice thats been given, wed also look at if there were any failings to give appropriate 
advice, whether in response to a consumers changing circumstances or more generally. 
We dont operate in exactly the same way as the courts. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service. We dont generally seek expert evidence. We use our own experience and 
knowledge to resolve financial complaints impartially and on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Where we consider a firm has given unsuitable advice (or has failed to give advice which we 
consider shouldve been given) our aim is to put the consumer back in the position theyd be 
in if appropriate advice had been given.    
Against that background, Ive considered Mr Hs complaint. I can see Mr H feels very 
strongly that he was given unsuitable advice. I think hes also concerned that not everything 
was clearly explained to him  for example hes said that he was unaware that once hed 
taken his tax free cash he couldnt then supplement it and he was didnt know he was in 
drawdown. Hes also more recently raised issues about death benefits. 
Although Ive read and considered everything, Im not going to comment on every point but 
Ive focused on what I consider to be key. 
Mr Hs central concern is that his tax free cash has been all but exhausted. As to what hes 
said about not realising, once hed taken it, he couldnt add to it, I understand the original 
advice to take tax free cash and move into drawdown wasnt given by SFA. I think it 
wouldve been up to the firm that gave advice about taking tax free cash to ensure Mr H 
understood how that worked. Mr H has also said he didnt realise he was in drawdown. 
Again I think it was down to the other firm to explain things initially. In any event, I note that 
various of SFAs reports refer to him being in drawdown. 
Mr Hs protected tax free cash was invested in ISAs and a GIA from which investments Mr H 
made capital withdrawals to fund his expenditure. Mr H now considers SFA shouldve 
advised him to fund part of that expenditure by taking a taxable income (up to the 40% 
income tax threshold) from his pension fund and retain some of his tax free cash. Hes also 
made various comments about why he considers he shouldve been in Capped Drawdown 
from, at the latest, when he secured part time employment. I understand Mr H is currently in 
a Capped Drawdown arrangement. 
But, and regardless of whether he was in Capped or Flexible Access Drawdown, I dont see 
SFA shouldve advised Mr H to take a taxable income from his pension fund when he had 
other monies readily available to him and which wouldnt incur any tax penalty. For example, 
in 2017 Mr H was able to withdraw £50,000 from his GIA. As SFA has pointed out, taking 
that net amount from his pension fund wouldve cost Mr H about £66,000 taking into account 
the income tax hed incur.  
It seems that during the period 2017 to 2021 Mr H had substantial expenditure he wanted to 
meet. He needed to fund that from somewhere. He accepts that his spending decisions have 
played a part and with hindsight he may not have gone ahead with some things. But I dont 
think advising him to use his tax free cash first and so avoiding the income tax liability that 
wouldve been incurred by making income withdrawals from his pension fund was 
unsuitable. Further, as SFA has pointed out, taking taxable withdrawals from the pension 
fund wouldve reduced it and so increased the pressure on the fund to perform to maintain 
longer term sustainability and avoid exhausting the fund prematurely. I think that wouldve 
increased Mr Hs exposure to the investment markets and not reduced it. Mr H refers to the initial advice  I assume hes referring here to what happened in 2017 
when he turned 60 and wasnt working  being based on his somewhat throw away 
comment that he might get another job. Mr H says the adviser was aware of his personal 
circumstances and commitments which meant hed be unable to work more than three days 
a week. But I dont see why the adviser wasnt entitled to take what Mr H said at face value 
and advise accordingly. And I note that in 2019 Mr H did secure part time employment. In 
2017 Mr H was seeking capital of £50,000 so taking into account tax hed have to have 
withdrawn considerably more than that from his pension fund  say £66,000 to get £50,000 
net. Hence SFAs advice to withdraw from the GIA. 
Nor do I think any misunderstanding on the advisers part as to the level of pension 
contributions Mr H would be able to make if he resumed part time work is material. I accept 
that Mr Hs primary reason for working wouldnt have been to make further pension 
contributions. But if hed have taken income from his pension fund that wouldve meant an 
income tax liability. I dont see it was unsuitable advice to access other funds and so avoid 
paying tax and depleting his fund. 
Mr H feels it wouldve been preferable for him to have gone into Capped Drawdown and 
retained some of his tax free cash  say £33,500 pa or £134,000 over four years. But, as he 
recognises, that wouldve meant hed have paid tax - £6,500 pa or £26,000 over the four 
years. So although I can understand what he says about it not just being the size of his fund 
but also its make up or shape  to include some tax free cash  as being important, hes 
saved tax that he would otherwise have incurred even if hes now concerned that his tax free 
cash has been used up. 
I dont agree that SFA simply agreed to facilitate the withdrawals that Mr H requested. From 
what Ive seen there were regular meetings which included discussions about the level of 
withdrawals. It seems that SFAs adviser and Mr Hs DFM both expressed concerns. I think 
SFA gave regular advice and reviewed its advice in the light of any change to Mr Hs 
circumstances or requirements. 
Mr H has also said that he wasnt advised about the tax position in the event of his death 
and he thought all of his pension fund would pass tax free to those he wished to inherit. 
Again Id point out that the advice to go into drawdown wasnt given by SFA and Id have 
expected there to have been some discussion prior to SFAs involvement about what would 
happen to Mr Hs fund in the event of his death. Further and in any event I think this was 
covered by SFA in its suitability reports. For example the report dated 14 July 2016 (which 
recommended that Mr H transfer another pension arrangement into his SIPP) includes, in 
the technical notes section of the appendix, a summary of death benefits before and after 
age 75.  
Mr H has queried the comment in the investigators view about Mr Hs fund having 
recovered. I think that may have reflected what Mr H said in his letter of 8 March 2021 when 
he referred to a fall of £150,000 in March 2020 due to Covid but noted that the pension fund 
seemed to have recovered. 
And, at around the time of the Covid crash, Mr H recalls being told that he only had a small 
amount of tax free cash left but he wasnt advised to retain it. I dont see that SFA shouldve 
expressly advised Mr H to retain it. I think SFA had made the position about the tax free 
cash and Mr Hs withdrawals generally sufficiently clear and as Ive said I dont think it was 
unsuitable advice to access other available funds before taking (taxable) income from the 
pension fund. Im not sure I fully follow Mr Hs point about the car loan and paying off his 
credit card. He may not have had sufficient tax free cash remaining to discharge those 
liabilities but thats a reflection of earlier spending.    The upshot is that I agree with the investigators views and the reasons he gave as to why 
he considered that overall the advice wasnt unsuitable and that SFA didnt need to do more 
than what it had already offered.
My final decision
Symphony Financial Advisers Limited has already made an offer of, in total, £2,500 to settle 
this complaint. I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Symphony Financial Advisers Limited should pay Mr H £2,500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman