DRN-1991108
The complaint
Mr W complains Zenith Insurance plc settled a claim under his motor insurance policy for 
less than his vehicle was worth.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says Zenith will not pay more than the market value of the vehicle at the 
time of the loss. The policy defines the market value as the cost of replacing the 
vehicle in the UK with another of the same age, condition, make, mileage, model
and specification as the vehicle was just before the loss or damage you are claiming 
for. My role isnt to value a vehicle, but to see if insurer has made fair offer in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
To do this we use the relevant trade guides. From searches of the same vehicle with 
similar mileage I can see the guides priced the vehicle at £4,571, £4,850 and £8439. 
The price given by the third trade guide is quite out of line of the other two. - so Im 
more persuaded that the other two guides provide a more reasonable valuation. 
Zenith has offered Mr W £5,700 for the vehicle, which is above the amount the other 
two guides valued it, so I think what theyve offered is fair
Mr W is unhappy with Zeniths initial offer for his vehicle  around £3,000 before 
excesses were deducted. Mr W contacted Zenith about this in March 2020 shortly 
after receiving their offer, and after consulting the trade guides, they increased their 
offer to £5,700 a couple of days later. Based on prices given in the trade guides, the 
initial offer was lower than I think would be reasonable for Mr Ws vehicle, but as 
Zenith consulted the trade guides and revised their offer shortly after Mr W contacted 
them, I dont think hes been impacted by this.
Mr W provided advertisements that show the vehicle for sale at higher prices  Ive 
considered these, but retailers and private sellers tend to advertise for more than the 
vehicles eventual sale price. So Im more persuaded the prices in the trade guides 
are an accurate reflection of the vehicles market value and likely selling price This is 
because they are based on nationwide research of vehicle sales using advertised 
prices and auction prices to work out what the likely selling prices would be.
Mr W said the vehicle is more expensive to purchase in the region where he lives. 
But as Ive said above, the policy pays based on the market value of the vehicle and 
the trade guides take into consideration prices nationwide. So Im satisfied what 
Zenith have offered Mr W is fair
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman