DRN-3663769
The complaint
Mr B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and declined his claims. 
What happened
Mr B was in an accident when he ran into the back of the car in front. His car was then stolen 
after being left in a safe place. Watford paid Mr Bs claim for the loss of his car. But it later 
said this was a mistake as Mr B had told it that hed added tinted windows to the car after he 
took out his policy. Watford said that if it had known this, then it would have asked Mr B to 
remove them or cancel the policy. After some confusion by a case handler, Watford asked 
Mr B to refund its settlement and it said he was liable for the other drivers costs. It offered 
Mr B £200 compensation for the confusion caused by its claim handling. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She saw that Watford 
wouldnt have offered cover if Mr B had told it that hed tinted the windows. And she thought 
the policy required Mr B to tell Watford about modifications to his car. But she thought Mr B 
didnt know that the tinted windows were classed as a modification. And she couldnt see 
that they were material to Mr Bs claims. 
So she recommended that Watford should remove records of the cancellation from any 
databases, confirm to Mr B that its providing indemnity for the two claims and he isnt 
required to refund its outlay, refund any repayments hed made, with interest, and pay him 
£400 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Watford replied that Mr B had added the tinted windows a day after hed taken out his policy. 
It thought he should have reasonably known that they were a modification and informed his 
broker. It said the policy would then have been cancelled. And so it thought Mr B was 
responsible for the cancellation and the declined claims. Watford asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr B was injured in the accident. I can understand that this has been 
a stressful and a worrying experience for him. 
Watford said it had cancelled Mr Bs policy and declined his claims because he hadnt told it 
about modifications hed made to his car after he had taken out his policy. 
Watford said Mr B had bought his policy the day before he tinted the windows and so it 
thought he must have known he intended to make this modification but hadnt disclosed it. 
From the Proposal Form, I can see that Mr B bought the policy five days before he made the 
modification. Mr B has also explained to us that he didnt know that tinting the windows was 
a modification. He explained it was done to protect his childrens privacy and provide 
comfort. But theres no dispute that Mr B tinted the windows a day after the policy started as 
shown by the invoice he provided to Watford. 
I can see that in the policy document under Changes which may affect Your cover, it is 
stated,
The Terms of Your Policy and premium are based on the information You have given us. if 
any of this information changes You must notify Us by calling Your broker. Below are some 
examples of what You should tell us. Please note these lists are not exhaustive and You 
should contact Your Broker if You are unsure about whether You need to inform Us of a 
change...
Mr B was then advised to call his broker if he intended to make any modifications. And a list 
of examples was provided, including Cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels.
And the policy goes on to state:
Please be aware that this is not a full list of all possible changes. All changes made from the 
manufacturers standard specification must be disclosed. This Policy does not cover any 
non-standard parts (modifications).
I think this is a common condition in insurance policies, and I dont think its unusual. This is 
known as an ongoing duty of disclosure. These are often referred to as "change in risk 
clauses".
And wed expect the insurer to highlight this sort of term at the start of the policy and make 
sure it clearly sets out the changes it wants to know about. If it doesnt we may not consider 
it fair for an insurer to take any action if the consumer fails to tell it of a change in 
circumstances. 
And I think Watford set out the condition reasonably clearly in its policy documents so that it 
was drawn to Mr Bs attention. I can also see that the policy doesnt cover any modifications. 
And Watford has provided an extract from the underwriting guide showing that it wouldnt 
have offered cover if the tinted windows had been disclosed. 
I can see that on page three of the policy booklet, Watford explains that it has the right to 
cancel the policy with seven days notice if there has been a breach of the policys terms and 
conditions. And so I would usually agree Watford could say that undisclosed modifications 
were a breach of the policys terms and conditions and so it could cancel the policy.
However, our approach is that we might not necessarily consider the insurers application of 
change in risk clauses to be fair and reasonable in all circumstances. This is because by 
issuing a policy, the insurer has effectively promised to cover the consumer against certain 
contingencies. 
And in many cases, if the consumer's circumstances change during the term of the policy, 
that is generally just part of the risk the insurer agreed to take on. So for non-fundamental 
changes we would not normally expect the insurer to then change its mind about what cover, 
if any, it will provide.
We think its reasonable for the insurer to vary the terms of an insurance policy after it has 
begun only when the nature of the risk changes fundamentally. So Ive considered whether 
the tinting of the windows has been a fundamental change in risk to Watford. 
Our approach is that we dont normally consider the addition of such things as alloy wheels 
or a Sat-Nav to a car fundamental. But if a car was modified to such an extent that it 
completely altered the specification, e.g. a new and much more powerful engine, we are 
likely to consider this a fundamental change in the risk.
Mr B tinted his cars windows. And Im satisfied that this wasnt a fundamental change in risk 
to Watford. So I think it was unfair and unreasonable for it to rely on this to cancel Mr Bs 
policy and to decline his claims. When a business makes a mistake, as I think Watford has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Mr B has had a cancellation on his record, he had to reimburse Watford for the claim 
payment, he is being pursued for its other outlay, and hes been caused significant upset 
and trouble by the unfair cancellation. 
So I think Watford should reasonably remove any records of the cancellation, so that Mr B 
doesnt need to disclose it in the future. I think it should indemnify Mr Bs claims, reimburse 
Mr B the repayments hes made, with interest as Mr B has been without his money for some 
time, and compensate Mr B for his trouble and upset. Our Investigator recommended that 
Watford should pay Mr B £400 compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Remove any record of the policy cancellation from external databases.
2. Confirm to Mr B that indemnity is provided for the two claims and hes not required to pay 
Watford anything towards its outlay.
3. Reimburse any payments Mr B made towards the sums he was asked to repay and pay 
him 8% interest simple per annum on those sums from the date he paid them to when 
they are reimbursed. Note: if Watford considers it should deduct income tax from the 
interest element it may do so but should provide Mr B with the relevant certificate.
4. Pay Mr B £400.00 compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by the unfair cancellation of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman