DRN-3038524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Europ Assistance S.A. Irish Branch (EA) has turned down a
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their travel insurance policy on 11 March 2020, to cover a
forthcoming trip they were taking on 14 March 2020. They travelled as planned. They were
due to fly home on 30 March 2020. However, as result of the Covid-19 pandemic, their
airline cancelled their flight. Ultimately, they were able to arrange their own return journey on
13 June 2020. But while they were abroad they incurred significant additional expenses for
the costs associated with extending their stay. They made a claim on their travel insurance
policy.
EA turned down the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Ms policy had expired on 30 March 2020,
so there was no cover after that date. It also stated that the policy didnt cover the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim, or the expenses theyd incurred.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with EAs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She noted that the
policy specifically excluded claims which were caused directly or indirectly by Covid-19. She
considered Mr and Mrs M had had to extend their trip due to national restrictions which were
imposed as a result of Covid-19. So she felt it was fair for Europ to conclude that Mr and Mrs
Ms claim fell within the scope of the exclusion clause.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt the investigator had ignored the fact that their claim was
solely down to their airline cancelling their flights. Theyd been left to make their own
arrangements during the challenging circumstances of the Covid-19 lockdown. Theyd had to
find their own accommodation and flights. The situation had been very stressful and they felt
justified in seeking reimbursement of their costs from EA.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I felt it was fair for EA to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I said:
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in
considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Ive thought carefully about, amongst other things,
the terms and conditions of their policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide
whether EA treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of EAs contract
with Mr and Mrs M. The policy terms which applied to Mr and Mrs Ms contract dont contain
an exclusion for Covid-19 related claims. So while later EA policies seem to include such an
exclusion clause, it doesnt apply to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Next, Ive turned to consider the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. This
provides the following cover:
The insurer will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits, for your
proportion of the cancellation costs, or curtailment costs which you have paid or you
are contractually obliged to pay and which you cannot recover from any source, if it is
necessary and unavoidable to cancel or cut short your trip. (Bold is my emphasis).
I think the policy terms make it clear that EA only covers pre-paid cancellation or curtailment
costs. It doesnt cover any additional costs a policyholder might incur. In this case, Mr and
Mrs M didnt cancel or cut short their trip  in fact, their trip was extended as a result of
Covid-19. And it doesnt appear that their claim is for cancellation costs  rather its for the
additional expenses they incurred as a result of staying abroad for longer than theyd
planned. It doesnt appear to me then that it was unreasonable for EA to conclude Mr and
Mrs Ms costs werent covered by this section of the policy.
Ive thought about whether any other section of the policy covers Mr and Mrs Ms
circumstances. Section H  Travel Disruption, does cover additional travel and
accommodation expenses a policyholder incurs if their flight home is cancelled by their
airline following a delay of more than four hours. This section is subject to a limit of £150 per
person. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms flight was cancelled by their airline and that they did
incur additional travel and accommodation expenses.
But the travel disruption section of the policy also sets out a list of things EA doesnt cover
under this heading. One of these says:
Any claims arising directly, or indirectly from the delay of travel arrangements, in any way
caused by, or contributed to by any order or recommendation issued by a government,
public or local authority. This includes, but is not limited to, orders or recommendations
issued by any civil or federal aviation authority.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ms airline cancelled their flight home as a result of the
lockdown restrictions imposed by the country of the government theyd travelled to. So I
think, based on the specific facts of this complaint, Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances
fall within the scope of this exclusion clause. Thats because the term applies specifically to
the claims caused by the delay of travel arrangements.
I would add that I note EA stated that part of the reason it wouldnt pay the claim was
because Mr and Mrs Ms policy had expired. Many insurers extended cover for their
policyholders who were delayed abroad by Covid-19 (subject to certain things). So I dont
think it wouldve been fair or reasonable for EA to turn down the claim for this reason alone.
However, overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, I currently dont think it
was unreasonable for EA to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the terms of Mr and
Mrs Ms policy. This means I think it was fair for EA to turn down their claim.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
EA agreed with my provisional decision.Mr and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional findings. They said their policy covers up to 
£3000 and their airline had cancelled their return flight, without making any provision on a 
rescue flight. Theyd had no choice but to arrange additional accommodation while they 
waited for their flight to be arranged. It took them around three months to arrange a new 
flight home, as each of their rearranged flights were cancelled. They believed they had a 
valid claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I still think it was fair for EA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
I agree that Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover of up to £3000 for a policyholders 
cancellation or curtailment costs if a policyholder has to cancel or cut short their trip because 
of one of the listed events the contract set outs. And I acknowledge that the airline cancelled 
their original return flight (and rebooked flights), meaning Mr and Mrs M werent able to 
return to the UK when theyd planned to, for reasons beyond their control.
But its still the case that Mr and Mrs Ms trip itself wasnt cancelled. Theyd been able to 
travel abroad as planned and make use of their pre-booked outward flights and 
accommodation. And neither was their trip cut short. Instead, it was significantly extended 
because of the pandemic. This means that Mr and Mrs M arent claiming for cancellation or 
curtailment costs  theyre claiming for the additional costs associated with remaining 
abroad. These costs arent something the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy 
covers. Id also add that EA isnt responsible for the airlines actions or response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, because I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket because of unprecedented and unforeseen events. And I understand they had little 
choice but to remain abroad while they waited to return home. But Im satisfied it was fair for 
EA to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms claim simply isnt covered by the cancellation and 
curtailment section of the policy. And I think their claim would be specifically excluded from 
travel disruption cover. So on the facts of this complaint, Ive decided it was fair for EA to 
turn the claim down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman