DRN-2729167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, through their representative Ms W, complain that British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) has rejected their claim under their BG HomeCare policy for a replacement 
boiler when their old boiler was condemned.
What happened
This complaint arises from an incident on 27 November 2019. During an annual service visit 
to inspect Mr and Mrs Rs warm air unit, BGs engineer turned off the boiler. When he 
restarted it, there was a blowback and accumulated dust caught fire. The fire service was 
called. They removed a side panel which exposed the boilers flue collector. Access to this 
panel was usually restricted by wall cupboards, so no previous inspections of it wouldve 
taken place. The flue collector was seen to have a crack, and there was black residue on the 
side panel. BG condemned the boiler. Ms W has said it was around 20  25 years old.
Ms W argues that the crack was caused by the fire. Shes referred to the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Rs HomeCare policy, which states that BG will provide:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
 Its less than seven years old 
 Or, its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare agreement 
 Or, it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement since we first covered you.
Ms W argues that the third bullet point above applies in this case. BG has provided annual 
services every year, so BG should replace the boiler.
BG says that this provision of the policy doesnt apply. It says its investigation has shown 
that the damage to the flue collector was a result of its age and wasnt caused by the fire. As 
the fire wasnt the cause of the crack in the boiler, and therefore to it being condemned, BG 
isnt responsible for the boilers replacement. In addition, BG says that the annual service
was carried out in accordance with regulations and its processes, and the fire wasnt a direct 
result of any work carried out by its engineer while completing the service.
Ms W sought advice from a company specialising in fitting and servicing boilers for warm air 
heating systems as BG dont fit these. She asked if heat could cause a crack in the flue 
collector. The company advised that the crack could not have been present on previous 
services as the smoke test carried out at the service wouldve allowed fumes to escape 
through the crack which wouldve been detected by Mr and Mrs Rs carbon monoxide 
detector, which BG had installed. 
This company said that there couldnt have been a crack in the flue collector prior to the fire. 
If there had been, carbon monoxide wouldve leaked each time the boiler ignited, which was 
daily as it heats water and the warm air heating system. 
BG provided a detailed analysis explaining why it doesnt believe that the fire was 
responsible for the crack. It says that the flue collector was already suffering from corrosion 
due to its age. It pointed out an area of bubbling above the crack which it says is consistent 
with signs of corrosion which would have weakened this area of the unit. It says theres 
insufficient evidence to support the conclusion that the crack was as a direct result of the 
ignition/blowback, and that its more likely that there was a smaller crack present before the 
fire which couldve opened up further. 
BG says the unit was condemned not as a direct result of the fire or blowback but because 
of the crack, which itself was not a direct result of the fire. It was due to corrosion and/or a 
crack which had been present before the fire and therefore BG isnt liable for the cost of a 
replacement under the clause which Mr and Mrs R are relying upon. 
Mr and Mrs R brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Mr and 
Mrs Rs policy is sufficiently wide to cover a crack occurring as a result of a blowback or fire 
and that the evidence available made it more likely that one of these caused the crack to 
occur. The elements for a successful claim were therefore fulfilled. His view was that BG 
should provide a replacement boiler.
BG doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ill give my reasons.
This is a very technical dispute and the views of a number of specialists have been provided 
which has been helpful, although they differ in their conclusions. Theres no evidence either 
way thats conclusive as to the existence of a crack on the flue collector before the fire as it 
wasnt visible until the cupboards blocking access to it were removed by the fire service.
 
Ive considered the section of the policy on which Mr and Mrs R rely which Ive quoted 
above. 
Its not disputed that there was a blowback and fire in the boiler when BGs engineer re-lit it. 
Nor is it disputed that annual services were carried out by BG each year. An insured event 
therefore occurred. Although it doesnt say as much, I think the policy wording must be 
interpreted as requiring some causative link between the fire and the crack which led to the 
boiler being condemned. I consider that its for BG to prove that theres no causal connection 
because the crack was already there and wasnt caused by the blowback or the fire.
No evidence has been provided by BG that the flue collector was already cracked on 29 
November 2019. I therefore need to form a view as to what is more likely than not to have 
caused the crack, and when. 
I think it can be said on the balance of probabilities that the boiler, which was over 20 years 
old, was corroded and therefore vulnerable. BG has pointed to the bubbling of the metal in 
the vicinity of the crack, suggesting weakening. That being the case, the blowback and/or 
the fire couldve been all that was needed to create a crack. Excessive force wouldnt have 
been needed. BG has accepted in communications with our investigator that this was 
certainly a possible explanation. This view is supported by the failure of Mr and Mrs Rs 
carbon monoxide detector to sound.If there had been an existing crack, particularly of the size shown in the photographs 
provided, I consider it probable that this wouldve allowed the escape of carbon monoxide 
which wouldve been detected by Mr and Mrs Rs carbon monoxide detector, which BG had 
installed and had replaced in March 2019, only eight months before. BG has provided 
various explanations as to why the carbon monoxide detector might not have detected the 
presence of carbon monoxide. They have said that only bad combustion causes carbon 
monoxide alarms to be activated, and that wind conditions can cause carbon monoxide that 
might otherwise have come through a crack to be drawn instead up the flue.
I dont find these persuasive. Given the age of the boiler, Im not persuaded that the 
combustion wouldve been sufficiently good so as not to pose a risk of the boiler producing 
carbon monoxide, and wind conditions change constantly. This boiler was in daily use, and if 
there had been a crack before 27 November 2019, I consider it more likely than not that at 
some point the carbon monoxide detector wouldve identified carbon monoxide if there was a 
crack through which it could escape.
Reference has also been made to a smoke test, conducted at the annual service visit. No 
smoke was observed coming from any crack during the test in 2019. I dont consider a single 
test as being conclusive evidence that there was no crack. The installers of Mr and Mrs Rs 
new unit have said that that its not guaranteed that smoke would have come out of the crack 
due to its location. And BG has itself said that wind conditions can affect the path that fumes 
might take.
Im therefore of the opinion that its more likely than not that the crack wasnt present before 
the service visit and that there was a causal connection between the blowback and/or fire 
and the crack which led to the boiler being condemned.
I therefore consider that the policy term requires that BG replace Mr and Mrs Rs boiler 
although I dont consider that BG is to blame for the crack given the vulnerability of the boiler 
due to its age.
Mr and Mrs R have already replaced their warm air unit. A like for like replacement, with 
the warm air unit being linked to a water cylinder, wasnt available until January 2020. As 
they needed hot water before then, they replaced it with another model which had a 
combined water heating system that makes their water cylinder redundant. This cost them 
£8,336.40 (including VAT). Our investigator was informed by the company that supplied this 
that it wouldve cost Mr and Mrs R around £200 more than the like for like replacement. 
Mr and Mrs R also had to pay £469.20 for the removal of asbestos in the flue, without which 
the new unit couldnt be installed. I dont think BG should be required to pay the cost of 
removing asbestos from the flue as BG isnt responsible for it being there.
BG has said that its suppliers of warm air units wouldve charged it £3,266.40 (including 
VAT) for the latest model of the unit it was replacing and £600 (including VAT) for a flue  a 
total of £3,866.40. This doesnt include the cost of fitting, and BG doesnt fit such units.
 
But if BG were to pay Mr and Mrs R for the supply and fitting of the latest version of their old 
boiler, Mr and Mrs R would be put into a better position they wouldve been in had their 
boiler not been condemned, as they would have a new boiler instead of one that was over 
20 years old. As I dont consider that BG is to blame for the crack occurring, I dont consider 
this is fair to BG. 
My conclusion, which seeks to achieve a fair outcome, and recognises the lack of substantial 
fault on the part of BG and the fact that Mr and Mrs R now have a new boiler to replace one that was over 20 years old, is to require BG to pay Mr and Mrs R £3,866.40. This is the cost 
to it of a replacement unit and flue and excludes any costs of installation which in other 
circumstances BG would also have to bear.
I also agree with our investigator that compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable for the 
stress and inconvenience suffered by Mr and Mrs R in having their claim rejected and having 
to pursue a fair outcome through this service.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R the sum of £3,266.40 towards 
the replacement of their boiler.
I also require it to pay them compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman