DRN-3608859
The complaint
Ms R, on behalf of a limited company whom I will refer to as company H, complains that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) are holding company H liable for around £8,800 of transactions 
that Ms R says company H didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, between April and November 2020 a number of 
transactions took place on company Hs current account which totalled approximately 
£8,800. Ms R says she didnt make or otherwise authorise these transactions on behalf of 
company H. 
The payments went to a variety of merchants to purchase things such as flight tickets, online 
shopping, and online payments to merchants. She said she became aware of them in 
November 2020 and reported them to HSBC. She says she does not know how someone 
else could have made the transactions, and she had not authorised them. Ms R pointed to 
the fact that transactions took place in the United States where she had been months earlier, 
but that she was in the UK when the transactions occurred so she could not have physically 
made them. She said she had taken her HSBC credit and debit card with her but had not 
used them. She said she still had them when she returned home. Ms R said she logged onto 
her online banking in November 2020, and this is when she saw the transactions and got in 
touch with HSBC to report them as fraudulent. 
HSBC looked into what happened. They declined to refund the disputed transactions on the 
grounds that they thought it was more likely that she had authorised these transactions 
herself or allowed someone else to do so on her behalf. They said that this was because 
there was disputed activity on multiple cards (there were some transactions on her credit 
card too), the transactions did not follow a typical fraud pattern as they took place over a 
prolonged period of time and there were large gaps between spending. They also said she 
had logged onto her online banking earlier but had not disputed transactions until a later 
login. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms R brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They said this was because they also felt it was more likely than not that Ms R had 
allowed someone else to make the transactions on her account. Ms R did not agree. In 
summary, she said: 
she had spent time investigating the transactions and had managed to receive 
refunds from some of the merchants;
she hired a private investigator who confirmed the suspect worked somewhere she 
had been whilst away; 
she felt HSBC should have contacted her or required further verification before letting 
the transactions go through; 
the spending did not follow her normal spending as it was in US Dollars; 
that as her physical card was not used the relevant regulations said that HSBC had 
to refund her; 
HSBC themselves had recognised she may be falling victim to a fraud as they sent 
her a letter saying this, though she never received it. Had they called her or put 
blocks on her account they would have significantly reduced her losses; and
she did not see the transactions as she did not often login as it was not her personal 
account. She found their online banking cumbersome to use. This is why she didnt 
notice the disputed transactions for so long. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Ms R liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that it is more likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone else 
consent to make them on her behalf. Im satisfied from that the payments were properly 
authenticated  Ms Rs genuine credentials were used to make the disputed transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC 
to hold Ms R liable. So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Ms R consented to these transactions being made. Having done so, I 
think it is fair that HSBC decided on balance that it was most likely Ms R who allowed 
someone to authorise these transactions. Ill explain why. 
Whilst there is no one way that fraud happens on an account, it seems unusual that 
someone in possession of enough information to spend on her account without her 
knowing would make payments over such a long period of time, including with some 
gaps in-between. An unknown third-party would not know when Ms R would have 
noticed the disputed transactions on her card, and reported the matter to her bank 
thus preventing them making any further payments. It seems far more likely that an 
unknown-third party would rapidly spend as much as possible on her card to 
maximise their profits. 
It also seems unnecessarily risky for an unknown third-party to book things like travel 
tickets, internet service providers and other spend linked to their address as this 
provides a paper trail for law enforcement to follow. 
Ms R said that her private investigator said that the suspected fraudster worked at a 
tourist attraction which Ms R visited, and so she thinks this is how someone would 
have been able to get her card details. However, she originally told our service that 
she had left her work debit and credit cards in her hotel room in a wallet in a bag as 
she was not using them whilst she was away. 
Ms R logged into her online banking twice before she said she noticed the spending. 
She said she didnt notice as she was going on for a specific purpose and didnt look 
at her account activity. However, it seems unusual that she would have logged in 
twice without noticing that there was a drastic change in her account balance. 
Ms R said HSBC should have blocked her account when she didnt get in touch after 
they sent her the letter. But I think HSBC worked under the assumption that she 
didnt get in touch because the transactions were genuine. They did say they may 
need to place a security marker on her card, but given the values and timings of the 
transactions I think they acted in a reasonable manner by not blocking her account. I am sorry as I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms R. But based on everything 
Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for HSBC to decline to refund the disputed 
transactions because I think its more likely than not that someone made these transactions 
on Ms Rs behalf. And so I will not be asking HSBC to refund company H. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman