DRN-4005169
The complaint
Mr D complains American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) made 
mistakes when he contacted them about transferring his Avios points to his account. 
What happened
American Express accept they gave Mr D misinformation about the transferral of Avios 
points earned on his account. When contacting American Express, Mr D was assured that 
the Avios Points would be issued sooner by bringing the statement date closer. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt the case as the cut-off date is approximately six days prior to 
statement production. As a result, the Avios points took longer to transfer then if the 
statement date had been left. American Express apologised and paid Mr D £80 
compensation. 
Mr D didnt think this was a fair response to his complaint for a number of reasons. He said 
the cost of his flights had risen and he now had the Avios points to spend he had no plans to 
travel and use them. He didnt think the compensation applied covered the additional sums 
he needed to pay. Or that it reflected the impact this incident had on his mental health as it 
was worrisome to see the prices rising and the discount from his Avios points not being 
applied.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As American Express upheld the compliant hed 
considered the impact of the error on Mr D and whether the compensation paid was fair. He 
thought it was and in line with what wed recommend.
Mr D didnt agree and thought more compensation was warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator. These are my 
reasons for doing so.
American Express upheld this complaint. It accepts Mr D was misadvised about the impact 
changing his direct debit and statement date would have on when his Avios points would be 
available. So, Im considering the impact this mistake had on Mr D and looking at putting him 
back in the position he would have been in if it hadnt been misadvised.
On the information before me, I dont think its right to say Mr D has lost the Avios points 
here. Rather the opportunity to use them on that occasion was lost. Although I appreciate Mr 
D has no immediate plans to use the points, they remain available to him until expiry. So, as 
I dont think theres been a loss of the Avios, I think it would be unreasonable to award 
compensation for that.
Theres undoubtedly been some inconvenience for Mr D here. But, I think, the £80 American 
Express credited to the account as a gesture of goodwill when Mr D complained is a 
reasonable response. Its the sort of award Id have recommended had it not been offered. I 
understand flight prices do fluctuate and its not commonplace to take retain proof of flights 
browsed at a lower price. But Im afraid, as theres no evidence of the flight price increase Mr 
Ds told us about, American Expresss approach to this isnt an unreasonable one. So, Im 
not going to ask it to take any further action here.
Given how strongly Mr D feels about what happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
his dispute with American Express informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr 
D.
My final decision
My final decision is I that I dont uphold this complaint as American Express have already 
responded reasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman