DRN-4259904
The complaint
Ms M complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Ms M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. At the point of supply the car was around three years old and 
had covered around 9,588 miles.
Soon after entering into the agreement, Ms M experienced issues with the brakes 
squeaking. She took the car back to the supplying dealership who cleaned the brake discs. 
This resolved the issue.
In October 2022 Black Horse wrote to Ms M advising her that her finance agreement was 
coming to an end and setting out her options. The options were:
Part exchange the car for another one
Keep the car and pay the final payment of £14,536
Return the car
In November 2022 Ms M took the car to the supplying dealership to be serviced. At the 
service the supplying dealership reported an oil leak coming from the sump. The sump was 
replaced.
In December 2022 Ms M took the car back to the supplying dealership because there was a 
noise from the engine. The supplying dealership carried out a diagnostic and found that the 
turbo had failed. It advised Ms M that a new engine was needed.
Ms M raised a complaint with Black Horse. She said the supplying dealership had failed to 
identify the issue with the turbo when it had the car in for servicing. Ms M also complained 
that when she first got the car the brakes had been squeaking.
In its final response, Black Horse acknowledged that there had been an issue with the 
brakes. It said that repairs had already been carried out to resolve this at no cost to Ms M. 
Black Horse offered a payment of £200 to Ms M for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to her as a result of the issue with the brakes. In relation to the engine failure, Black Horse 
said it wasnt upholding the complaint, because there was no evidence that the fault was 
present at the point of supply.
Ms M wasnt happy with Black Horses response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Shes told this service that she wants to reject the car and that shes left it at the supplying 
dealership.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst he understood that Ms M felt 
that the issue with the turbo shouldve been identified when the car was serviced, the turbo 
wasnt a serviceable part of the vehicle and wouldnt form part of the service schedule. The 
investigator reviewed the service history of the car and said that the services which had 
taken place in 2021 and 2022 were carried out when the car was significantly over the 
recommended mileage. He said there was no evidence to suggest that the turbo was faulty 
at the point of supply and concluded that the turbo failure was most likely due to wear and 
tear.
Ms M didnt agree. She said shed had the car serviced every 12 months at the supplying 
dealership and that she could provide evidence of this. Ms M said that if the turbo failure was 
due to wear and tear then this shouldve been visible when the service was carried out in 
December 2022. Ms M said the supplying dealer had asked her to return the car after it had 
been serviced so that the oil filter could be changed, and that it was only five days after this 
that the engine failed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Ms M was around three years old and had covered around 9,500 miles. 
Its reasonable to expect that the car will already have a degree of wear and tear and that it 
is likely to require more repairs than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the point of 
supply, as opposed to a fault which developed due to general wear and tear.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because the information and 
diagnostics provided by the supplying dealership show that the turbo has failed.
Just because theres a fault with the car doesnt mean that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. Ive reviewed all of the available evidence to determine whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs within the first six months of the point of 
supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair a fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer may request to reject the car. After 
six months, the burden of proof is reversed, and it becomes the consumers responsibility to 
show that any faults were present or developing at the point of supply.
When the car was first supplied there was an issue with the brakes squeaking. The issue 
was resolved by the dealership at no cost to Ms M. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
this issue reoccurred, so it seems likely that the repairs were successful.
The fault with the turbo occurred around four years after the point of supply, so well outside 
of the first six months. As Ive explained above, its up to Ms M to prove that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply.An independent inspection report is useful in helping to determine whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality. Ms M hasnt provided a report or any independent engineering evidence 
to show that the fault with the turbo was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account here. During the four years that Ms M 
had the car, she covered over 85,000 miles. The turbo is a major component part of the 
engine. If the turbo had been faulty at the point of supply, I dont think its likely that Ms M 
wouldve been able to cover the mileage that she did.
Ive also considered durability, because durability is one of the things that we consider when 
looking at whether a car is of satisfactory quality. A turbo is designed to last the lifetime of a 
car (or around 150,000 miles). However, its possible for a turbo to wear out over time 
depending on how the car is driven. A turbo can also fail for reasons such as oil starvation, 
oil contamination and foreign object damage.
Ms M has provided evidence to show that she had the car serviced. The service interval for 
Ms Ms car is every 24 months or every 21,000 miles, whichever comes sooner. Ive 
reviewed the service history and I can see that the car was significantly over the 
manufacturers recommended service interval (in mileage terms) when it was serviced in 
2021 and 2022. This is relevant because part of the service schedule involves changing the 
oil. Oil is essential to the proper functioning of the turbo. If the oil is of poor quality (because 
it hasnt been changed regularly enough) or if there is insufficient oil, this could be a cause of 
the turbo failure.
Its also relevant that in the notes provided by the supplying dealership, its recorded that the 
sump had an oil leak when the car was brought in for service in November 2022. The 
dealerships notes state that the sump was replaced. If there had been insufficient oil in the 
engine prior to the car being brought in for service (because of the oil leak), this could be a 
cause of the turbo failure. 
Taking all of the available information into account, and because theres no evidence to 
suggest that there was a fault with the turbo at the point of supply, Im unable to say that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So I wont be asking Black Horse to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman