DRN-4271519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy and with the service they received.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr K had a problem with his gallbladder. His consultant at the time decided 
that they would wait to see if there were further issues. Over a year later, in September 
2021, Mr and Mrs K took out an annual travel insurance policy. The policy certificate shows 
that no medical conditions were declared by them.
Mr and Mrs K were due to go on holiday on 4 April 2022. On 30 March 2022 Mr K went to 
the hospital and was seen for symptoms relating to his gallbladder. He was discharged and, 
at that time, was considered fit to go on holiday. Mrs K phoned Great Lakes to let them know 
about Mr Ks change in health and paid an additional premium of £350. The following day 
Mr K was readmitted and diagnosed on 4 April with a gallstone bile duct blockage.
Mr and Mrs K claimed on their travel insurance for the cost of their holiday. It was declined 
because Great Lakes said Mr K was aware of the need to cancel his trip on the 30 March 
2022, when the policy was upgraded.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Great Lakes about delays and the decision to decline the claim. 
Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline the claim and apologised for the delays. In 
relation to the claim Great Lakes said the symptoms which gave rise to the cancellation pre- 
dated the updated declaration in March 2022. And, they said Mr K should have declared his 
treatment in 2020 when the policy was taken out. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K made a complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Mr and Mrs K hadnt taken reasonable care when asked questions during the 
retrospective screening as they were asked if any of the travellers were awaiting surgery, a 
procedure, test or test results. She explained that the letter from Mr Ks consultant reflected 
that there had been a discussion about out-patient appointments and possible surgery. So, 
she thought Great Lakes decision to decline the claim was reasonable, and in line with the 
relevant law.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. Mrs K said that during the call she was asked if there had been a 
problem in the previous 12 months. She said she had no idea there was to be a referral or a 
possible operation. She explained that the letter arrived a few days later, in the post and 
after the holiday had been cancelled. This didnt change our investigators thoughts about the 
overall outcome of the complaint. She accepted that Mr and Mrs K hadnt received the letter 
when they made the call. But she didnt think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on 
the contents of the letter, which suggested a discussion had taken place.
Mr and Mrs K highlighted the contents of the call they had with Great Lakes on the 30 March 
2022 and that their answers were accurate. They said that to be told theyd failed to take 
reasonable care and it had resulted in a misrepresentation was devastating.
So, the complaint was referred to me to make a decision. Having reviewed the file I asked 
Great Lakes for further information, including what it would have done if Mr and Mrs K had 
declared Mr Ks gallbladder issue at the point of sale. I didnt receive a response.
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. I 
said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Great Lakes says Mr and Mrs K answered medical questions incorrectly when they 
bought their policy and also when the additional screening took place. This means 
the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these 
principles to the circumstances of this case.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy 
if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when 
deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific 
the questions asked by the insurer were.
Im sorry that its caused distress to Mrs K that the phrase used is 
misrepresentation. Thats not to suggest, in this case, shes been dishonest or has 
deliberately misled the insurer. That phrase is taken from the relevant legislation that 
I must consider when making a finding about this complaint.
The sale of the policy in September 2021
Mr and Mrs K were asked several questions when taking out the policy in September 
2021.
This included completing a medical declaration which said:
Declaring your pre-existing medical conditions will ensure that we offer you 
the right travel insurance cover. By not declaring any medical conditions, you 
may not be covered if you require medical treatment abroad.
For each traveller named on this policy, please select Yes if they:
a. Have, in the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological 
conditions and for which theyve received treatment, been prescribed 
medication, attended any consultations, investigations or check-ups 
Does Traveller One have any pre-existing medical conditions?
Underneath this question there were options to tick yes or no.
Great Lakes says Mr and Mrs K should have answered yes to this question as Mr K had received treatment for his gallbladder in June 2020. So that was within two years 
of taking the policy out in September 2021. The policy certificate shows that no 
medical conditions were declared by Mr or Mrs K.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs K said they were asked to disclose medical 
conditions within the last 12 months. I dont doubt thats their honest recollection of 
what they were asked. But, the evidence Ive seen suggests its most likely that they 
were asked to disclose health conditions from the two years prior to taking out the 
policy.
I think Mr and Mrs K should have answered yes to the question Ive set out above. I 
think they should have told Great Lakes about the treatment for Mr Ks gallbladder in 
June 2020.
The medical evidence says that Mr K was known to have gallstones following an 
ultrasound and that hed seen a consultant. It says the decision was to to observe 
and watchful waiting. So, I think Mr K had received treatment, attended a 
consultation and had investigations in relation to his gallbladder.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs K 
should have answered yes. So, I think they did make a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. I dont think that it was deliberate or reckless. I think it was more likely 
to have been an honest mistake.
That means Great Lakes is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under 
CIDRA. This says that in case of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt 
have entered into the contract of insurance it can cancel the policy and refund the 
premiums. If the insurer would have offered the insurance, but charged a higher 
premium it can proportionately reduce the amount to be paid on the claim.
Great Lakes hasnt confirmed whether it would have offered Mr and Mrs K cover if 
theyd answered yes to the relevant question or if it would have charged more for 
cover. Thats because they considered there to have been a further 
misrepresentation.
The upgrade to the policy on 30 March 2023
Mr K called Great Lakes on 30 March 2023 and Ive listened to the calls which took 
place on that date.
In the first call Mrs K was asked if she intended to claim on the policy. She answered 
no and said she really didnt want to claim on the policy. Great Lakes asked if all 
travellers were currently fit to travel  she answered yes. She was then asked if 
anyone travelling was awaiting surgery, a procedure, test or test results.
Mrs K mentioned Mr Ks gallbladder and that he may be having a scan (but said she 
didnt know). She said they didnt know where they were with everything and that 
they were going on holiday. She also said the gallbladder had flared up really badly. 
The advisor asked if as of that second Mr K was awaiting a scan. Mrs K responded 
to say, not of this second no.
She was then asked, Do any travellers have any symptoms which havent been 
diagnosed by a medical practitioner?. Mrs K answered no.
Mrs K was then asked if there was a diagnosis and said they knew it was his gallbladder. She said she was trying to be honest and not lie. But she said it was 
uncomfortable as she was clearly struggling to give the right technical name for the 
condition. Mrs K said Mr K was diagnosed several years ago and suddenly the 
gallbladder had become uncomfortable earlier that day. She queried if she needed 
the medical name for gall bladder inflammation. Based on the discussion with Great 
Lakes Mrs K decided to call back with the correct name.
In the second call Mrs K explained Mr K had been unwell the previous night with a 
gallbladder attack. She said she wanted to be upfront. She said two years ago that 
hed had a gallbladder incident with no further issues until that morning. She set out 
what had happened that morning and that hed been given anti-biotics and 
painkillers. She also said she had no letter or referral before going on to explain that 
it was cholelithiasis (a gall bladder attack). Mrs K again confirmed they had no 
intention to claim.
Mrs K went back through the same general medical questions she was asked during 
the first call, which Ive outlined above. Mr K was on the call in the background. Mrs K 
confirmed they were both fit to travel. Great Lakes then asked if any travellers were 
awaiting surgery, a procedure, test or test results, including Covid-19. Mrs K 
answered no.
When asked if Mr K was awaiting any procedures to treat the gallbladder or bile duct 
Mrs K replied no, not at the moment he isnt, and later said, we dont know whats 
happening. Mrs K was then asked if hed had any symptoms relating to the 
gallbladder within the last 12 months. Mrs K said he hadnt until this morning so 
Great Lakes recorded this as a yes.
Great Lakes confirmed that the condition could be added for an additional premium. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs K failed to take reasonable care when answering the 
questions asked during the calls. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ks testimony is consistent with the medical evidence. There is a letter from 
Mr Ks consultant, dated 30 March. I accept this letter wasnt available to Mrs K when 
she spoke to Great Lakes as she spoke to them on the 30 March which is the same 
date as the letter. She also said in the calls she hadnt received a letter from the 
hospital yet. It confirms that Mr K had been symptom free since June 2020 and that 
he was considered fit to travel. The consultant said:
In view that your symptoms have completely resolved, I believe you might 
have passed a stone. You were quite well in yourself and are due to go on a 
cruise holiday for three weeks in four days time  You are fit and well 
otherwise.
You mentioned you would like to go back and see [redacted], who is the 
same consultant you have seen two years ago, which I have now arranged 
for you to see her on a routine basis once you are back from your holiday. I 
have given you a prescription of pain killers and a prescription of anti-biotics 
to take with you on the cruise ship in case this happens again We will see 
you as an outpatient in due course, for consideration of taking your 
gallbladder out.
I think Mrs K gave reasonable answers to the questions she was asked and gave 
Great Lakes enough information about the circumstances surrounding the treatment. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs K had any intention to claim on the policy. The letter from the 
consultant makes no reference to Mr K being unfit to travel. I think Mr and Mrs K were notifying Great Lakes of a change in health, prompted by an email Great Lakes 
had sent and Mr Ks visit to the hospital that morning.
I think Mrs K gave Great Lakes full disclosure about the circumstances. They didnt 
pick up on the fact that the gallbladder issues in 2020 hadnt been disclosed and 
didnt currently appear on the declared medical conditions. In the call Great Lakes 
focused on what had happened in the last 12 months.
Ive given careful thought to the question Mrs K was asked about whether Mr K was 
awaiting surgery, a procedure, test or test results. Mrs K was upfront during the call 
that she had no letter or referral. I also bear in mind that during the first call she 
discussed this with Great Lakes and it was positioned that she needed to answer on 
the basis that as of that second whether Mr K was awaiting a scan.
As Ive outlined above Mrs K was clear she didnt have a letter about the next steps. 
She also reiterated that they didnt really know what was happening. The consultants 
letter suggests it is most likely that the arrangements for Mr K to see his previous 
consultant were made after Mr K spoke to the consultant because it says, which I 
have now arranged (my emphasis). Theres also no reference in the letter to the 
consultant having discussed seeing Mr K as an outpatient in the future or removing 
his gall bladder at the time he was released from hospital. I accept Mr Ks testimony 
that he wasnt aware this was the consultants plan until he received the follow up 
letter. I also bear in mind that previously Mr K had been advised to wait to see what 
happened. So, I dont think this suggests it is most likely that Mr and Mrs K were 
aware that there would definitely be follow up appointment, even if Mr K had 
expressed a desire to see his previous consultant. I think their evidence has been 
consistent and credible. Its also consistent with the medical evidence thats 
available.
I think there were a number of prompts during the call that Great Lakes ought to have 
picked up on. And I think they had a reasonable opportunity to explore information 
with Mrs K in more detail. For example, it was clearly important that Mrs K gave 
accurate information about the next steps for Mr K. But, despite being told that Mrs K 
had no letter, no referral and that we dont really know whats happening, Great 
Lakes continued to screen for the condition and take the additional premium. If this 
was the difference between cover being accepted, and not, I think they ought to have 
directed Mrs K to get more information from the treating team before proceeding. 
And, they also didnt identify the original non-disclosure which ought to have been 
obvious given that no medical conditions had been declared.
I think Mrs K was upfront and honest about the situation. And I think she gave a 
reasonable answer to the question about surgery, procedures and tests bearing in 
mind what she was told in the first call and what I think its most likely they were told 
at the hospital. I think whats she said is consistent with the information she gave in 
the call to Great Lakes and with the information in the consultants letter.
Based on all of the above I dont agree Mrs K failed to take reasonable care in the re-
screening call.
Putting things right
Im intending to say that Great Lakes should refund the additional premium Mr and 
Mrs K paid when they took out the upgrade to the policy. I think Great Lakes ought to 
have directed them to get more information rather than proceeding to cover the 
condition and take an additional premium. I dont think that was treating Mr and Mrs K fairly.
Im also intending to direct Great Lakes to reassess Mr and Mrs Ks claim within 28 
days of my final decision. This reassessment will be on the basis that they took 
reasonable care when answering the re-screening questions in March 2023 but didnt 
take reasonable care when they took out the policy. At that time Mr K had been free 
of symptoms for a year and had no further treatment, appointments or tests planned.
Great Lakes hasnt said whether it would have covered Mr and Mrs K if theyd 
declared the circumstances surrounding Mr Ks gallbladder in June 2020. Great 
Lakes should rescreen for cover on the basis that Mr and Mrs K made a careless 
misrepresentation when they took out the policy (not a reckless and deliberate 
misrepresentation).
Mrs and Mrs K ought to be aware that in line with the relevant legislation that doesnt 
mean that their claim will necessarily be paid in full. It will depend on whether Great 
Lakes would have offered them cover if the condition had been declared and/or 
whether theyd have been charged more for the policy. If Great Lakes wouldnt have 
offered them cover at all then their claim will not be paid but they will receive a refund 
of the premium they paid. But if Great Lakes would have offered cover, but at a 
higher price, the relevant law says they can pay a proportionate settlement of the 
claim.
If Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the outcome of the retrospective screening or the 
settlement of their claim, they may be entitled to make a further complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with my 
findings. In summary, they said that Mr K was sure he was asked during the original sales 
process if hed had medical conditions in the last 12 months. They highlighted that it was the 
12 month timeframe which was used in the subsequent phone call and Great Lakes had 
made a number of mistakes. They also said that they failed to see how an innocent person 
could be found guilty of deceit. They said that at no time was it their intention to defraud 
anyone or act illegally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further comments in response to my provisional decision havent changed my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of the complaint. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs K have said about the question they were asked 
when the first took out the policy and the issues theyve highlighted in relation to the general 
handling of their claim. 
They say they were asked to disclose conditions from the previous 12 months when they 
took the policy out. Ive thought about what is most likely to have been asked. Based on the 
evidence available to me I think its more likely that they were asked to disclose conditions in 
the previous two years. I can see that the policy terms, on page 13, refers to the two-year 
timeframe. So, I think its unlikely that the question wouldnt have reflected the same 
timescale referred to in the terms. And, the evidence Great Lakes has provided also shows 
that the two-year timeframe was used. Although Mrs K was asked about conditions in the previous 12 months during the call that 
doesnt mean that was the same question asked at the point of sale. During the call she was 
amending the existing policy. So, it doesnt automatically follow that the question asked in 
the phone call was the same one that was asked at the time the policy was taken out.  
Taking all of this information and evidence into account I think its more likely that Mr and 
Mrs K were asked to declare conditions within the previous two years at the time they took 
the policy out.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think that the misrepresentation at the point of 
sale was deliberate or reckless. I think it was more likely to have been an honest mistake 
which was why I considered it to be a careless misrepresentation. That reflects the 
language used in the relevant legislation that I need to consider and is not intended to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs K acted dishonestly when taking out the policy. 
Im not suggesting that Mr and Mrs K have committed a fraudulent act or acted illegally. In 
my provisional decision I said that Mrs K had also been honest and upfront when she 
contacted Great Lakes by phone to complete the rescreening. I dont think she was trying to 
defraud Great Lakes and I think she took reasonable care during that call when answering 
the questions. Thats why Im directing Great Lakes to refund the additional premium to her 
as I dont think they treated Mr and Mrs K fairly during that call.  
Putting things right
Im directing Great Lakes to refund the additional premium Mr and Mrs K paid when they 
took out the upgrade to the policy. I think Great Lakes ought to have directed them to get 
more information rather than proceeding to cover the condition and take an additional 
premium. I dont think that was treating Mr and Mrs K fairly.
Im directing Great Lakes to reassess Mr and Mrs Ks claim within 28 days of my final 
decision. This reassessment will be on the basis that they took reasonable care when 
answering the re-screening questions in March 2023 but didnt take reasonable care when 
they took out the policy. At that time Mr K had been free of symptoms for a year and had no 
further treatment, appointments or tests planned.
Great Lakes hasnt said whether it would have covered Mr and Mrs K if theyd declared the 
circumstances surrounding Mr Ks gallbladder in June 2020. Great Lakes should rescreen 
for cover on the basis that Mr and Mrs K made a careless misrepresentation when they took 
out the policy (not a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation).
As I said in my provisional decision Mrs and Mrs K ought to be aware that in line with the 
relevant legislation that doesnt mean that their claim will necessarily be paid in full. It will 
depend on whether Great Lakes would have offered them cover if the condition had been 
declared and/or whether theyd have been charged more for the policy. If Great Lakes 
wouldnt have offered them cover at all then their claim will not be paid but they will receive a 
refund of the premium they paid. But if Great Lakes would have offered cover, but at a 
higher price, the relevant law says they can pay a proportionate settlement of the claim.
If Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the outcome of the retrospective screening or the 
settlement of their claim, they may be entitled to make a further complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman