DRN-2687551
The complaint
Mr D complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
fraudulent funds paid into his account; closed his account; and sent his details to the fraud 
prevention organisation CIFAS. 
Mr D wants the money paid back to him, the account re-opened, and the CIFAS fraud 
marker removed.
What happened
On 4 August 2020, two credits were made to one of Mr Ds Halifax accounts.  One was for 
£1,500 and the other £530. There was then an online banking transfer of £2,030 to one of 
two savings accounts which Mr D had just opened and which had had a zero balance. The 
transfer was made using Mr Ds normal device for making payments.
The same day, £4,200 credited a third account in Mr Ds name. This too had just been 
opened and had a zero balance.
The same day, the £2,030 and the £4,200 were transferred to an account in Mr Ds name 
with and online platform which trades cryptocurrency. These used Mr Ds normal device for 
making payments.
Halifax contacted Mr D and asked him about what had happened. Mr D told Halifax different 
things at different times:
- Mr D said he didnt know where the incoming credits had come from, and he hadnt 
made the transfers out;
- He also said that a friend of a friend had asked to use his bank details because of 
problems with his own bank. After this had been done, Mr D had then transferred the 
money out;
- Mr D said hed been expecting the £4,200 credit, which was from the online platform 
which trades cryptocurrency.
Halifax decided to close all Mr Ds accounts, on the basis that hed been the beneficiary of 
fraudulent funds. Mr D complained, but Halifax didnt change its mind. In Halifaxs final 
response letter on 14 August, it confirmed the closures and said that because it was closing 
the accounts because of fraud, it had passed Mr Ds details to the fraud prevention 
organisation CIFAS. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She spoke to Mr D several times and was 
told different versions, which varied from each other and varied from what Mr D had told 
Halifax. When Mr D first contacted this service, he said he had no idea how the money got 
into his account, and that he wanted the CIFAS marker removed and money refunded. On 
another occasion, however, he told the investigator that hed told Halifax hed carried out the 
withdrawals but actually he hadnt, and hed only said that because he felt he had to. Mr D 
told the investigator that the money paid into his account had come from his own account 
with the online platform which trades cryptocurrency, but someone else had sent it. He didnt 
know how this had happened.
The investigator asked Mr D about his different versions about what had happened. Mr D 
said he hadnt given his details to the friend of a friend as hed told Halifax, but hed felt he 
had to tell Halifax hed carried out the transfer. He said he couldnt have done the transfer 
out because at the time he was having a driving lesson.
Mr D told the investigator he hadnt written down his online security details, and hadnt told 
anyone. He said he accessed his Halifax account using a fingerprint. Mr D didnt report the 
issue either to the police or to the online platform which trades cryptocurrency.
 
The investigator considered that Halifax had acted fairly in closing Mr Ds account because 
the incoming credit had been confirmed as fraudulent. She also explained that Halifax had 
an obligation to report a consumer to CIFAS if it has reasonable grounds to suspect fraud. 
So she didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said he wanted the money refunded to him. He asked for an 
ombudsman decision and said he wanted more time before that. The investigator gave Mr D 
two more weeks, and Mr D provided more information. He said:
- he believed his bank account had been hacked on 4 August because he used the 
same usernames and passwords across multiple apps and sites. Mr D said the 
hacker had been able to obtain these usernames and passwords from the 
database and had then used them to log onto Mr Ds online banking;
- there had been a bad line on the phone with Halifax, resulting in a misunderstanding.  
He hadnt been expecting £4,000 into his bank account but he had expected £5 from 
one of his siblings;
- he had said that hed done some trading, but he hadnt done the disputed 
transactions. Mr D said he had no idea the different apps were being used without his 
consent;
- his online banking had been blocked for a day so he couldnt access it;
- hed been on a driving lesson the next day so it hadnt been Mr D who had used the 
account.  
- Mr D said hed only ever sent £1 through online banking;
- He didnt know where the money in and out of his account on 4 August had come 
from;
- Mr D sent screenshots of his account balance in July and August;
- Mr D also sent us a copy of an undated text from someone asking him to move a 
lesson from Monday to Tuesday say 14.30? 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed money 
Mr D says he wants a refund for the money which credited his account and which Halifax 
blocked. As Ive set out above, Mr D has given different explanations about what happened, 
and Ill discuss those below. But the fact is that the money paid into the account were 
fraudulent funds. So Mr D isnt entitled to have it.
Closing Mr Ds accountIve checked the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. Section 25.1 is about ending the 
account. It says that Halifax can close an account without notice if:
If we reasonably think that:
- there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account 
The funds paid into Mr Ds account were confirmed as fraudulent, so I find that Halifax was 
entitled to close Mr Ds account without notice.
CIFAS marker
CIFAS is a fraud prevention membership organisation. Members, such as Halifax, register 
markers against individuals.  There are set standards of proof before a marker can be 
recorded. These standards include a requirement that there are reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted. And that evidence 
must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the 
conduct to the police.
Ive considered whether the circumstances here meet these requirements. 
Mr D gave different versions about what happened to Halifax. He also gave other different 
versions to our investigator. Mr D has also provided further conflicting evidence after the 
investigator issued her view. 
Ive carefully considered the extra information which Mr D sent us. This includes new 
suggestions, which are different again from some of the many different explanations he gave 
to Halifax and to us. Im not persuaded by any of these arguments.  And 
multiple inconsistencies make it harder to conclude that Mr D was providing a truthful and 
believable account of what happened.
For completeness, Ive given examples of some of Mr Ds new explanations and why Im not 
persuaded by them. But none of his explanations completely fits the facts, and having so 
many different explanations at different times makes it more unlikely that any of Mr Ds 
versions is the accurate one. 
One of Mr Ds new explanations is that a fraudster hacked his Halifax account because Mr D 
used the same username and password for all his accounts. Its not clear to me what Mr D 
means when he said a fraudster obtained these from the database and Mr D hasnt given 
any clear explanation about how he thinks anyone obtained his security details. Ive borne in 
mind that he told our investigator had hadnt written down his details or given them to 
anyone else. 
And another new suggestion is that there had been a bad line when Mr D told Halifax hed 
been expecting a payment. The call recording I have from Halifax doesnt show any 
technical problems. And again, this was only one of numerous different explanations which 
Mr D gave to Halifax and to this service.
The texts which Mr D sent dont prove that he had a driving lesson on any particular day  
but even if he did, that doesnt mean he couldnt have carried out the disputed transactions.
Ive gone on to consider whether or not its reasonable for Halifax to have believed that a 
fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. 
Mr D had only opened the two new accounts the day before the fraudulent money was 
transferred to them. Ive also seen evidence that the transfers of £2,030 and £4,200 were both carried out with Mr Ds normal device. But Mr D said he hadnt allowed anyone else 
access to his online banking details and fingerprint login. And having considered all the 
evidence, including Mr Ds inconsistent explanations, I find its more likely than not that Mr D 
carried out the transactions himself. 
And as the money paid in had been obtained fraudulently, I find that Halifax met the CIFAS 
requirements for reporting Mr D to CIFAS and placing a marker against his name.   So I do 
not require Halifax to remover the marker, and I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman