DRN-3889156
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Punter Southall Wealth Limited (Punter Southall) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr M met with Punter Southall in September 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. It was noted that Mr M had received his transfer value from the DB scheme, and he 
wanted to look at the pros and cons of transferring. 
Punter Southall completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was married and aged 50, his partner was aged 51. He had 
two children one of which was dependent and would be for a few more years. At the time he 
was employed by Tata Steel. Their house was worth £250,000 and was subject to a modest 
mortgage that had two years left to run. They had two small car loans that would be repaid 
shortly. Mr and Mrs M had a modest amount of cash savings. 
Punter Southall also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was 
balanced. 
In respect of Mr Ms pension arrangements: 
Mr M had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in 
September 2017. This showed that he had around 32 years service. He was entitled 
to a pension of about £20,250 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was 
about £519,000. 
Mr M had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He and 
his employer were contributing £240 a month into this. It had a value of around 
£3,000. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
But on 4 December 2017, Punter Southall advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into 
a personal arrangement and invest the proceeds in funds that it said matched his attitude to 
risk. Mr M accepted this advice. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr M was attracted 
to the greater death benefits that a personal pension would provide as he wanted to leave 
his family a financial legacy, and not just the spouses pension provided by the BSPS. Mr M 
also wanted a flexible income and taking a personal pension would allow him to adjust the 
amount he received to encompass situations such as taking a higher amount just after 
retirement, or less when he received the state pension. He was considering taking a tax-free 
lump sum of up to £70,000 to help his children purchase properties. 
Mr M complained in 2022 to Punter Southall about the suitability of the transfer advice he 
received. He said he had recently received a letter from the industry regulator that said he 
may have received unsuitable advice. And he wanted this looked into.  
Punter Southall didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the advice was suitable for him as it 
met his needs for increased flexibility, better death benefits and met his attitude to risk. It 
said an independent third party had assessed the advice and found that it was suitable for 
him. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Punter Southall pay compensation. He said that Mr M was 
likely to receive lower retirement benefits due to the transfer. Whilst he did want to retire 
early, he had other provision and so he likely could have done this anyway. And Mrs M had 
said she would still be in work when Mr M retired and her income would be useful. He didnt 
have a pressing need for tax-free cash. The different death benefits didnt outweigh the likely 
loss in Mr Ms pension provision. 
Punter Southall disagreed, saying that, in summary, the advice had been reviewed by an 
independent third party and they found it to be suitable. And it thought that the lower critical 
yield of 5.7% might be achievable, given the past performance of the funds the personal 
pension invested in. The cash flow analysis showed that a sustainable income could be 
taken. And Mr M did want the flexibility that he gained from the transfer, and he wasnt 
looking to replicate the shape, level or frequency of the DB scheme payments. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
And after this the regulator has since developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-
specific redress calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to 
award compensation based on this, if I uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Punter Southall's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Punter 
Southall should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Punter Southall was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by 
the regulator. This calculated the critical yield which was how much Mr Ms pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme. It showed this was 5.8% to match the full pension hed have been 
entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and 
reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 4.7%. The same 
calculations at his age 58 were 7.9% and 5.7% respectively.
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.5% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4.0%. The same calculations at his age 58 were 7% and 6% respectively.
The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, 
was 3.7% for 7 years to retirement (his age 58), and 4.2% for 14 years retirement 
(his age 65). And given this, and Mr Ms recorded attitude to risk, and the regulators 
middle projection rate, I think Mr M was always likely to receive pension benefits, 
from age 58 or 65, of a substantially lower value that those hed have been entitled to 
under the BSPS2 by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
The situation is less clear if he were to move to the PPF where at 65, and if he took 
the maximum tax-free cash, then it may have been reasonable to say the transfer 
could have replicated the PPF benefits. But there would be little point in giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And this seems to be the case here. And 
at his preferred retirement age of 58 he would likely be worse off. 
And this was recognised at the time of sale when the suitability report referred to the 
critical yields at age 65 being just about achievable but that Mr M was aware that 
the benefits once transferred may fall short of replicating those that would be 
available from the BSPS. And gave warnings that he may not be able to secure the 
same, or same type of income, as the DB scheme would have provided.
One of the primary reasons that the transfer was recommend to Mr M is that he 
wanted to retire at age 58 and wanted to avoid the penalty that Punter Southall said 
he would pay if he took the benefits from his DB scheme at this age.
It was noted that Mr and Mrs M wanted a minimum of £13,200 a year and £25,500 
would leave them very comfortable. Mr M had no immediate plans for tax-free cash, 
but he thought that he might give his children some funds at some point. This wasnt 
a pressing need, more something that he wanted to do if circumstances allowed.   
The BSPS2 was projected to provide about £28,000 at his retirement age of 65 or 
tax-free cash of £127,900 and a reduced pension of £19,100. At age 58 it could 
provide a pension of £19,600 or tax-free cash of £94,000 and a reduced pension of 
£14,000. All of these met Mr Ms stated needs at either 58 or 65. And nearer 65 they 
were comfortably above what he said he wanted. 
And added to this Mrs M, who was a similar age to Mr M, said she would work go 
part time when Mr M retired. This was out of choice. And she would receive an 
income of about £12,000 a year. And both Mr and Mrs M had some modest DC 
pensions that they could also use flexibly. 
Whilst Mr Ms aim to retire early was clearly important to him. I dont think that Punter 
Southall should have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant 
potential overall cost, without fully exploring any alternatives could have used to meet 
these aims. 
And whilst there were some advantages with a personal arrangement, such as the 
ability to vary the amount taken, the pension under the BSPS2 or PPF was 
guaranteed. And appears to have been a more appropriate way to meet Mr Ms 
income needs in retirement  which is the primary purpose of a pension.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr M needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time. I dont think transferring for this reason 
was in his best interests.
Punter Southall said Mr M was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer 
offered to his family by way of alternative death benefits. But the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered 
death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his 
family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. If Mr M had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Punter Southall couldve explored 
life insurance as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life 
or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence 
Punter Southall did this.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Punter Southall should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ms desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis 
hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Mr M may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Punter Southalls role to 
objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr M 
with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr M was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from Punter 
Southall was unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Punter Southall also pay Mr M £300 for the distress 
caused by the unsuitable advice. Mr M said that finding out that he may be worse off in 
retirement left him very stressed at the time. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused 
concern in relation to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for 
employees of the company he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened 
but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair. 
Punter Southall has provided an investigation that has been made by an independent third 
party that said this transfer was suitable for Mr M. I have noted this, but I am required to 
conduct my own investigation into the circumstances of a complaint and reach my own, 
independent, conclusions as Ive done here. 
Punter Southall, and the third party, have said that the DB transfer could meet Mr Ms needs 
at age 58, largely on the same basis that it made the recommendation to transfer. It went on 
to say that that the DB scheme income could be surplus Mr and Mrs Ms requirements. 
I dont agree with the conclusions Punter Southall and the third party have reached about the 
suitability of this DB transfer. As Ive said above, parts of the transfer could have advantages for Mr M. But I dont think it was right for Mr M to give up what could have been a 
cornerstone of his retirement, at a cost to him, for the reasons Ive given above. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Punter Southall must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Punter Southall should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Punter Southall 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Punter Southall should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Punter Southalls offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Punter Southall may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Punter Southall should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the poor 
advice caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Punter Southall Wealth Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman