DRN-3838494
The complaint
Mr K complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) damaged his TV 
whilst validating a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim when there was a water leak at his home. Admiral appointed a contractor 
to manage the claim. Mr K said some of his electrical possessions were damaged by the 
leak, including a TV which had been purchased for over £2,000.
The appointed contractor took possession of the TV to support validation of the claim and 
examined it for water damage. Mr K said when the TV was returned to him by the contractor, 
he was rushed into signing an acceptance letter to say his goods had been returned in a 
satisfactory condition. Mr K said the TV had sustained damage whilst in the contractors 
possession. He said the contractor had caused dead pixels around the edge of the TV 
where it had been mishandled. Mr K would like Admiral to replace the TV with a new one 
and compensate him for his distress and inconvenience caused.
Admirals formal response explained there was no evidence of water damage to the TV. So, 
Admiral said there wasnt a valid claim under the policy. Admirals contractor denied any 
allegations made by Mr K that they had caused damage to the TV through mishandling it.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought it most likely the damage to 
the TV was pre-existing and not caused by Admirals contractors. Therefore, he didnt think 
Admiral had acted unfairly. Mr K disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has acknowledged in his response to the investigators view that he doesnt contest the 
findings from Admiral in respect to it not been able to find any evidence of water damage. 
Admiral declined the claim for the TV based on this evidence. Therefore, I wont consider 
this point this point any further.
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he thinks Admirals contractor damaged his TV by 
mishandling it when it was in the contractors possession. Mr K said this has caused dead 
pixels around the edge of the screen. I can see Mr K felt rushed when he signed the 
acceptance letter after his TV was returned. I dont think its always possible to check 
everything is in order when possessions are returned  in this scenario its important to look 
at all the available evidence.
Our service makes its decision based upon evidence thats provided. So, I have considered 
this evidence, to see whether I think there is evidence to show Admirals contractors did 
cause this damage.
Mr K has provided statements from friends and family to explain there were no pixel issues 
with the TV before Admirals contractor took possession of the TV. The statements also 
show that friends and family noticed the dead pixels when the TV was returned. 
Unfortunately, I cant place much weight on these statements. Statements from friends and 
family arent seen as been independent  thats because they can be biased (knowingly or 
unknowingly) towards the person they are representing.
Admirals contractor has denied causing the damage. Therefore, as there are contradicting 
testimonies from the parties, I would need to see strong evidence to show that the damage 
was caused by Admirals contractor. 
Mr K said for the contractor's [testimony] to be plausible, there should have been at least 1 
dead or damaged pixel before the TV left my house. The pixels should have died or been 
damaged in a random distribution, not only on the edges of the TV where [the contractor 
was] witnessed to have been holding the TV from.
Unfortunately, I havent seen an expert report that sets out clearly what pixel damage was 
evident on the TV. I appreciate Mr K says he saw the contractor struggling with the TV and 
he believes this is what caused the damage. However, I have no independent evidence to 
substantiate this. It also doesnt rule out there was significant damage to the pixels before 
the TV was taken away.
Mr K has presented information which he says reflects a poor pattern of behaviour by 
Admirals contractor across other customers. I must be impartial in making my decision  so 
I will only consider any direct evidence in relation to the circumstances of this claim. 
I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Both parties disagree on what happened, and I 
havent seen evidence that sways me that it was more likely that Admirals contractor caused 
the damage. I have considered that the TV wasnt new, it was several years old. Other 
issues had been identified with the TV. I think its possible there couldve been pixel damage 
before the TV was taken by the contractor. Im not saying I dont believe Mr K, but in the 
absence of evidence to clearly support what he has said, I dont think its fair to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman