DRN-3182187
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered around 
94,000 miles.
Mr A experienced issues with the car within a week of collecting it. He took the car to his 
local garage, who diagnosed an issue with the clutch and flywheel, an issue with the DPF 
and an issue with the air conditioning.
Mr A says he tried to contact the supplying dealer about these issues, but did t receive a 
response. He continued to use the car and eventually gave up trying to contact the supplying 
dealer and complained to SMF.
SMF said that although the issues had been confirmed by Mr As local garage, it didnt 
accept this information as independent. So, it arranged for an independent inspection of the 
car.
The inspection was carried out in August 2021. The engineer found faults with the car but 
said these wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, SMF rejected Mr As complaint.
Mr A was unhappy about this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants SMF to 
repair the car and refund the cost of the inspection and diagnostic reports. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was persuaded, based on the information 
provided by Mr As local garage, that the issues with the car were present at the point of 
supply. He said SMF should put things right by paying for the repairs, refunding the cost of 
the diagnostic and inspection, and refunding 10% of Mr As payments to reflect his loss of 
enjoyment.
SMF didnt agree. It said the independent inspection report stated that the fault wouldnt 
have been present at the point of supply. It also said that the onus was on Mr A to show that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect a second hand car  such as that 
supplied to Mr A  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than 
a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there 
was a fault with the car which was present at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which 
occurred as a result of general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within 6 months of the point of 
supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply 
and its up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
An engineers report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. In this 
case, Mr As local garage has provided a diagnostic report and other information about the 
faults. Theres also an independent inspection report which was obtained at the request of 
SMF. SMF questioned the independent of the local garage, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the information provided by the local garage isnt reliable. So Ive given equal 
weight to all of the engineering evidence.
The local garage inspected the car within the first month of Mr A getting it. It diagnosed faults 
with the clutch and flywheel, the DPF and the air conditioning.
The independent inspection report took place around 5 months after Mr A first reported the 
issues. It also diagnosed faults with the clutch and flywheel, the DPF and the air 
conditioning. So Im satisfied , taking into account both reports, that there are faults with the 
car.
The issue here is whether the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. Based 
on what Ive seen, the faults were found within the first 6 months, so theres a presumption 
under the relevant legislation that the faults were present or developing at the point of 
supply. Its up to the business to rebut that presumption. SMF says that the independent 
inspection confirms that the faults werent present at the point of supply. However, I dont 
think the independent engineers comments are reliable, because he hasnt taken into 
account the fact that exactly the same issues were reported and diagnosed by the local 
garage within the first month.
On balance, Im satisfied that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. 
This means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. The business needs to take 
steps to put things right. 
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. I 
think repairs are a suitable resolution in this case. SMF should arrange for repairs to be 
carried out to fix the faults.
Mr A explained that hes continued to use the car despite the faults, because he needs the 
car to get to work. Because of this, I wont be asking SMF to refund Mr As monthly 
payments. However, as the issues have impacted on Mr As enjoyment of the car, and 
because the faults occurred so early on in the agreement, I think its fair to ask SMF to refund 
a percentage of Mr As payment to reflect loss of enjoyment.
Mr A has incurred some expenses in taking the car to his local garage and getting a 
diagnostic and report. He wouldnt have had to do this if the supplying dealer had responded to him. In the circumstances, I think its fair to ask SMF to refund the cost of the diagnostic 
and the report.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be collected and the faults repaired at no cost to Mr A
Refund 10% of Mr As payments from the start of the agreement until the repairs have been 
completed
Refund Mr A the costs hes incurred in obtaining a diagnostic report and a report from his 
local garage  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman