DRN-2344140
Complaint
Mr and Mrs W, who are represented by a third party, say that Countrywide Principal Services 
Limited (CPS) mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a mortgage in May 2007.
Background
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and 
Mrs W in May 2007. CPS wasnt the lender of the mortgage although the PPI was likely 
taken out at around the same time the mortgage lending was arranged. 
The PPI was taken out jointly by Mr and Mrs W. CPS says it thinks the PPI was taken 
out after a meeting but only has some of the documentation from the time.
Mr and Mrs W think CPS mis-sold the policy to them. They say it wasnt explained to them 
and they were made to think they had to take it.
In my provisional decision dated 7 October 2020, I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold their complaint. I set out an extract below:
Mr and Mrs W say they bought the PPI at a meeting. Thats consistent with what CPS has 
told us. That means it had to give fair information so that Mr and Mrs W could make an 
informed decision about taking the PPI but also that it had to ensure its recommendation 
was suitable.
I think its likely that CPS made Mr and Mrs W were aware that the PPI was optional and 
they chose to have it. Theres limited paperwork from the time of the sale  I see our 
adjudicator double-checked with CPS to make sure - which is understandable considering 
how long ago it was. So Ive looked at the sale of the PPI based on what I think is likely to 
have happened at the time plus what I already know about how sales like this tended to 
happen. Ive also taken into account the screenshots Ive seen from CPS that record the 
details of the sale, including the fact that the PPI had been sold on a joint basis with Mr and 
Mrs W splitting the benefit equally between them. So I think they decided to take the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about whether or not to take the PPI.
I also think Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions that applied at the time. Based on what theyve said I dont think either 
Mr or Mrs W were affected by any of the conditions limiting the PPIs main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. So 
they could have the benefit of the full extent of the cover. 
Mr and Mrs W told us they only had limited savings and, whilst they say their parents would 
have been able to help out with meeting the monthly mortgage repayments, the ability to 
help very much depends on finances being available, which is something that cant be 
guaranteed. 
The PPI provided around £490 in monthly benefits, for a cost of £34.74. Having considered 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time and thought about the significant financial 
commitment theyd made with the mortgage, I think there was a need for the benefit 
provided by the policy if they were sick or couldnt work. So I think they would have had 
use for the policy and that it was suitable for them taking into account the situation they 
were in at the time.
Its likely the information CPS gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted 
this type of cover. I think in the sales process they went through its likely they would have 
understood the cover and the cost of the PPI.
It follows that as things stand, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
We sent Mr and Mrs W and CPS a copy of my provisional decision. The third party 
representing Mr and Mrs W and also CPS confirmed they had nothing more they wished to 
add. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Given that Mr and Mrs W havent come back with any further evidence or information, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs W lost out as a result of the PPI and so I will not be 
requiring CPS to take any action to compensate them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and as explained in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman