DRN-1910348
The complaint
Mr G complains that West Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) treated him unfairly when he 
asked it about porting his mortgage. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr G took out an interest only mortgage with WBBS in 2004. He contacted WBBS in 2017 to 
ask for information about porting the mortgage as he wanted to move nearer to where he 
worked. WBBS said hed need to attend an appointment with a mortgage consultant. Mr G 
says he didnt go ahead as he didnt have time to attend an appointment. Hes also said he 
knew he wouldnt pass an affordability assessment and was worried WBBS would try to 
move him onto a repayment mortgage. 
Mr G repaid the mortgage in 2019. He says WBBS treated him unfairly by applying new 
lending rules to him  an existing borrower. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said it was 
reasonable for WBBS to ask Mr G about his circumstances before deciding whether to port 
his mortgage. As Mr G hadnt gone ahead WBBS didnt have an opportunity to review his 
application or to indicate whether it would be successful.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he didnt have time for an appointment with a mortgage 
consultant. Mr G said WBBSs process was unfair as it shouldnt have applied new lending 
rules to an existing borrower. He said he wasnt asking for new borrowing and WBBS should 
simply have agreed to port his mortgage to a new property of equal or greater value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking out a portable mortgage doesnt give a customer a right to port the mortgage, it gives 
the customer a right to make an application. West Bromwich provided its standard conditions 
of offer, mortgage terms and information booklet. These say porting is subject to our normal 
underwriting criteria being met, and our lending policy and mortgage terms and conditions 
apply. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, sets out in its rules on mortgage regulation 
that it expects lenders to carry out stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest 
only mortgages, repayment strategy, before agreeing to enter into or vary mortgages. A 
lender cant agree to enter into or vary a mortgage unless it can demonstrate affordability. 
There are exceptions to this which apply to some existing borrowers. If an exception applies 
the lender doesnt have to refuse an application on the grounds of affordability  although it 
could decline the application fairly on other grounds. One of these exceptions might have 
applied so that WBBS could agree to port Mr Gs mortgage without demonstrating 
affordability. But Mr G didnt go ahead with the porting application process. WBBS didnt 
have an opportunity to review his application and decide whether to agree to it or not.
Mr G said he didnt have time to attend an appointment. He says he had a long journey to 
work each day and attending an appointment was difficult. Mr G says WBBS should have 
simply transferred his loan to another property. I dont think thats reasonable. WBBS has to 
assess and process applications fairly, in accordance with rules on mortgage regulation and 
its own lending criteria. To do this, it needs information from customers about their 
circumstances and the property they want to buy. WBBSs process in 2017 was to ask 
customers to attend a one-hour appointment with a mortgage consultant, on an advised 
basis, so it can collect information and make an initial assessment. I appreciate this was 
inconvenient for Mr G, but I dont think it was an unreasonable request in the circumstances.
I dont think WBBS treated Mr G unfairly when he asked about porting his mortgage. It 
follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, to require WBBS to 
pay compensation to Mr G.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman