DRN-3351062
The complaint
Ms W complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declining her claim for a sofa 
repair under a furniture protection plan.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both sides and therefore Ive only 
summarised it briefly below:
In February 2021 Ms W submitted a claim for structural damage to her sofa
Amtrust declined the claim saying structural damage wasnt covered under the policy 
Ms W held with them
Ms W complained to Amtrust saying her certificate of cover shows cover for structural 
damage in the top right-hand box on page one. She went on to say she was told by 
the sales assistant when the sofa was bought that structural damage was covered.
In their final response letter dated 8 April 2021, Amtrust Europe Limited said the 
claim had been declined correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
They explained that the policy only covered Accidental Damage to the external 
surface of the item
Unhappy with Amtrusts answer, Ms W referred her complaint to this service.
Ms W remade the point that structural damage was mentioned in the top right-hand 
box on page one of the certificate of insurance. And shed been told by the retailer 
that structural damage was covered. Ms W said she wouldnt have paid the premium 
which covered only staining and accidental damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Amtrust had fairly declined the 
claim. 
Ms W asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I therefore 
dont uphold Ms Ws complaint and will explain why. 
Ms W first raises the point of what she was told by the retailer. I have no doubt this is Ms Ws 
recollection of the sale. But I cant look at the way the policy was sold as part of this 
complaint. Im considering the actions of the insurer, Amtrust Europe Limited, in declining the 
claim based on the policy which was put into force. 
Ms W has supplied us with a copy of the certificate of insurance. Section one of the Terms 
and Conditions (Introduction) says:
This Certificate sets out the benefits, conditions and exclusions of your Guardsman 
Furniture Protection Plan. Please read this document carefully to make sure you 
understand the cover provided.
Further on, in section 9 (YOUR RIGHT TO CANCEL) it says:
Within 30 days of the delivery date of your product:
a.  if you wish to cancel your Plan within 30 days of delivery of your product please contact 
the retailer. Providing you have not made a claim a full refund will be due to you;
Im satisfied Ms W was sent a certificate of insurance because she provided us with a copy. 
And its reasonable that Ms W shouldve checked the certificate to see that it covered what 
she thought it did. At that point, if Ms W had any concerns, she couldve raised them with the 
retailer/insurer and cancelled the policy without charge if it the cover wasnt what she 
thought it should be. 
Ive looked at the certificate in detail to see what the policy covered. There are a number of 
highlighted areas on the front page of the certificate relating to cover. Whilst each one deals 
with a specific topic; they combine to contribute to an overall understanding of the policy. Ive 
broken down how I think the sections link.
The first, which Ms W has drawn particular attention to, is headed Duration of Cover. The 
specific term Ms W feels is misleading says Under this plan cover for Structural Faults will 
be provided following the expiry of the manufacturers and retailers guarantee. Ms W feels 
this is saying structural faults are covered. I accept that taken strictly in isolation this could 
be clearer. But I think because the section is headed duration of cover, this should be 
viewed as when the policy terms kick in. I dont find theres adequate evidence to suggest 
that this section is meant to define policy coverage.
The next section is headed Important  intention of the cover. This says
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental 
staining and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage (depending on cover 
selected). The meaning of the terms is explained below.  (My emphasis added)
I think reading that section would encourage a look at what cover the policy provided.
The next section, after the plan number, is headed Your Coverage Includes.  And its this 
section which I feel is key. There are only two covers stated here  accidental staining and 
accidental damage. There is no mention of structural damage. And given that the preceding 
section has highlighted depending on cover selected this should have raised a concern 
over whether structural damage was covered and prompted questions of the retailer and/or 
insurer.
On page two of the certificate, Section Three  What is Covered, it says
Your product is covered for the cost of repair in the event of a sudden and 
unintentional incident resulting in an Accidental Staining, Accidental Damage, such as 
a rip, puncture, scuff, scratch or burn, or Structural Fault stain, rip, puncture, scuff, 
scratch or burn or a structural fault, according to the coverage purchased and 
detailed under the coverage section on the front of your Guardsman Plan Certificate. 
(my emphasis added)Im satisfied this is a clear indicator of where to look to see what cover has been purchased.
Taking all this into account, I dont find the specific term within the duration of cover section 
is sufficient to say that structural damage is covered. And I find its clear what is covered. 
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Amtrust has acted reasonably declining Ms 
Ws claim, and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman