DRN-1615639
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold them their payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about two separate monthly premium PPI policies taken out in November 
2002 alongside Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. Mr Rs policy cost £17.71 per month and provided 
him with a benefit of £322. Mrs Rs policy £7.59 a month and provided her with a benefit of 
£138.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said based on the information available Mr and 
Mrs R were not eligible for the policies. She said this was because Mr R had not been in 
permanent employment for six continuous months and Mrs R did not work 16 hours a week. 
LBS disagreed and said there was not enough evidence to support the adjudicators view. As 
no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
I agree with the adjudicator that Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld but for slightly 
different reasons. Ill explain these below. 
Looking at the policy terms it seems that in order to be eligible for the PPI Mr and Mrs R 
needed to be at work, other than temporary work and they had to work for a minimum 16 
hours a week for 6 consecutive months. LBS therefore needed to establish Mr and Mrs R 
were eligible for the PPI before making a recommendation for them to buy the policies. 
The information recorded at the time the mortgage was taken out indicates Mr and Mrs R 
were both employed on a full-time basis. However, Mr and Mrs R didnt purchase the PPI 
from LBS at this time. Instead they purchased the PPI from LBS in 2002 and it seems Mr 
and Mrs Rs circumstances had changed. Mr R says that at the time they were sold the PPI 
he was in between casual and temporary roles. Looking at the information recorded at the 
time of sale for the PPI Mr R has noted he was an office worker and his employer was 
Hayes. 
The information from the time of sale supports Mr Rs comments about the nature of his 
work at the time the PPI was sold, especially as Hayes is a temping agency. So on balance I 
dont think Mr R was eligible for the PPI because he was in temporary work. Mrs R says she was working less than 16 hours a week as she had just had a child. The 
documents from the time of sale note her employer but there is no indication of the hours 
she worked. However, Mrs R had a significantly smaller benefit under the policy which 
indicates she wasnt earning as much as Mr R. Mr and Mrs R have been consistent with their 
testimony about their circumstances at the time the PPI was sold. And they have provided 
their childs birth certificate which shows he was born in May 2001. This supports their 
comments about Mrs R returning to work on a part time basis to accommodate their 
parenting commitments. 
Looking at the available evidence I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were not eligible for the 
PPI at the time LBS sold it to them. And so for the above reasons I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
putting things right  what Leeds Building Society needs to do
LBS should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
LBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
 
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policies, LBS can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LBS to take off tax from this interest. LBS must give Mr 
and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Leeds Building 
Society should put things right for Mr and Mrs R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman I ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my 
decision before 18 June 2020.
 
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman