DRN-3726820
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) refused to extend her hire purchase agreement when she experienced 
delays in acquiring a new vehicle.
 
What happened
Mrs R entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new vehicle with VWFS in July 2018. 
The agreement was for four years and was due to end in July 2022. 
In October 2021 Mrs R ordered a new vehicle from the same manufacturer, with an 
expected delivery date in April 2022. At the end of April 2022 Mrs R was told her new vehicle 
wouldnt be ready until at least December 2022, and so she contacted VWFS to ask about 
her options at the end of the agreement. VWFS told Mrs R that her agreement could be 
extended for up to 12 months, and to contact them if she wanted to take this option.
  
Mrs R decided to cancel the new vehicle order, and order from a different manufacturer with 
a shorter delivery timescale, hoping that it would arrive earlier. 
At the end of May 2022 Mrs R contacted VWFS to ask to extend her agreement. Mrs R 
spoke to the dealership and VWFS. She was initially told an extension would be available for 
up to 12 months but was then told this was only available if she was ordering a vehicle from 
the same manufacturer  a group manufacturer. 
Mrs R complained to VWFS in June 2022. She said shed been told on two occasions by 
email that she could extend her agreement, and she was unhappy this offer had been 
withdrawn. 
VWFS sent Mrs R their final response to her complaint in June 2022. They said the offer of 
an agreement extension was only available if a new vehicle was being ordered from a group 
manufacturer. So, because Mrs R had ordered from a non-group manufacturer, they were 
unable to offer the contract extension. They didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
she was given incorrect information by VWFS, and she wanted them to extend her 
agreement as originally offered. 
Our investigator gave her view that the information given to Mrs R in April 2022 was correct, 
as Mrs R was ordering a new vehicle from a group manufacturer at that time. She said the 
information given in May 2022 was contradictory as Mrs R had changed her order at that 
time, but she didnt think Mrs Rs options wouldve been different if the correct information 
had been given.
Our investigator said that the decision about whether to extend was a commercial one for 
VWFS, so she didnt think theyd done anything wrong in refusing to extend Mrs Rs 
agreement, and she couldnt hold VWFS responsible for delays in the manufacture of 
vehicles. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said neither of the emails she received from VWFS set any 
timescales or limitations on the offer of extending the agreement. Mrs R said she thinks she 
was incorrectly refused an extension of her agreement, or VWFS should be responsible for 
the incorrect information given. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive looked at the agreement between Mrs R and VWFS, and it provides two options at the 
end of the agreement, that is for Mrs R to exercise her right under the agreement to 
purchase the vehicle by paying a final payment of around £22,000, or for the vehicle to be 
returned to VWFS. There is no provision in the agreement for it to be extended past the 
originally agreed four-year term. 
So, Im satisfied that there was no obligation for VWFS to offer an extension of the 
agreement to Mrs R. 
When Mrs R first contacted VWFS to ask about her options due to delay in delivery of her 
new vehicle, she told VWFS that shed ordered a vehicle from a group manufacturer. VWFS 
provided information to Mrs R about the option to extend her agreement, and Im satisfied 
that this was clear and accurate at the time. Mrs R was ordering a group manufacturer 
vehicle and wouldve been eligible to extend her current agreement with VWFS. 
When Mrs R contacted VWFS for a second time about the extension of the agreement, she 
had changed her order to a non-group manufacturer vehicle. VWFS say their offer of 
extension only applied to vehicle orders from a group manufacturer, so Im satisfied that the 
information given to Mrs R about the option to extend her agreement at this time was 
misleading, as she was no longer eligible for this. 
VWFS have acknowledged that this information was incorrect, and Mrs R was given the 
correct information, that she was unable to extend her contract, relatively quickly after this. 
Had VWFS given Mrs R the correct information at the outset, her options wouldve been the 
same, that is to either return the car, or to exercise the option to purchase it. So, whilst I 
appreciate the frustration caused by VWFSs error, this was quickly corrected and Mrs R 
didnt lose any of the options that were available to her as a result, so I dont think VWFS 
need to do anything more to put this right. 
Mrs R has said that she thinks she was eligible for an extension to her agreement, and she 
was incorrectly declined. I havent seen any evidence that VWFS offer extended to delays in 
ordering non group manufacturer cars, or that VWFS treated anyone in the same situation 
as Mrs R differently. So, Im satisfied that VWFS treated Mrs R fairly when refusing to extend 
her agreement. 
Mrs R chose to pay the final payment and purchase the car, but said she had to pay a higher 
interest rate than if shed been given the option to extend the agreement. As VWFS had no obligation to extend the agreement, I cant hold them responsible for any new agreement 
that Mrs R has entered. 
Mrs R said that it was VWFS delay in delivery of a vehicle that caused the issue in the first 
place. VWFS and the vehicle manufacturer are separate businesses, so I cant hold VWFS 
responsible for any delays in the manufacture of vehicles. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman