DRN-4239910
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded a transaction he didnt make. He also 
complains HSBC UK Bank should have alerted him to the transaction given its size and 
unusual nature.
What happened
Mr M has several accounts including an HSBC savings account. Hes told us that his wife 
helps him with his online banking as he wouldnt know, for example, how to make a transfer 
using HSBCs mobile banking app.
Mr M called HSBC to say his wife had noticed the balance in his savings account was much 
lower than expected as £5,000 had gone out of it. He disputed this transaction saying it 
wasnt one hed authorised, or one his wife had done on his behalf. He said that neither on 
them had clicked on any suspicious links or shared account information as theyre both 
cautious about that.
HSBC investigated Mr Ms claim and said the transaction had been carried out and 
authorised on Mr Ms mobile phone. HSBC also questioned why the transaction hadnt been 
disputed earlier, saying that its records showed Mr Ms online banking had been logged into 
twice since the payment had been made.
Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs response and complained. HSBC looked into Mr Ms 
complaint but didnt change its mind as a result of having done so. So, Mr M complained to 
us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that they didnt think HSBC 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr M was unhappy and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has disputed a £5,000 payment that left his savings account at the beginning of 
February 2023. I agree with him that this was larger than the amounts that normally left this 
account. I can, however, see that HSBCs evidence shows this payment was carried out and 
authorised on Mr Ms mobile phone using HSBCs banking app.
Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr Ms banking details have been compromised. He 
was open with HSBC that his wife manages the account for him, even though its an account 
in his sole name meaning that this is technically a breach of the terms and conditions of the 
account. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that HSBC didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when it said it wasnt going to refund this transaction.
Ive kept this decision short given that I know Mr M has other matters hes currently dealing 
with. I appreciate that this decision will be a disappointment to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman