DRN-3387306
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about the handling of a claim she made on her Aviva Insurance Limited 
legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Aviva in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Ms P made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy for cover to help with a dispute 
with her landlord. 
Aviva appointed a panel firm to consider the claim. They advised it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success and wasnt proportionate to pursue, which was a requirement of the 
policy.  They also said Ms P was entitled to seek a second opinion if she wanted to and 
asked her to inform Aviva if she intended to do this. 
The following month Ms P provided an opinion confirming the merits of her claim were over 
51%. Aviva referred that to their panel solicitors who obtained an opinion from another 
barrister. The barrister came to the same conclusions as the panel firm and noted that any 
award of damages Ms P might obtain was likely to be nominal. Because of this Aviva 
declined to cover her claim.
Ms P referred a complaint about this to our Service. She also obtained an opinion from her 
own barrister who said her claim did have reasonable prospects of success and was 
proportionate to pursue. 
Aviva agreed to review the opinion if Ms P was prepared to provide details of her barristers 
name and year of call. Ms P wasnt happy to do this for some time but eventually agreed to. 
Following this Aviva reviewed her claim again and agreed to fund it.
Our investigator considered Ms Ps complaint. She said that Aviva were entitled to rely on 
the advice of the panel firm but they should have done things differently when Ms P obtained 
her own solicitors opinion. At that point the policy terms provided for Aviva and Ms P to 
agree the joint instruction of another lawyer. Because Aviva didnt follow the provision in its 
terms the investigator concluded that Ms Ps claim could have advanced sooner if Aviva had 
done so. She said this would have saved Ms P both worry and stress. She directed that 
Aviva pay Ms P £250 in recognition of this. Aviva agreed to the investigators view, but Ms P 
did not. She felt the award didnt go far enough in recognising the impact Avivas failings had 
on her given her underlying health conditions. She felt that a significant award of 
compensation was more appropriate. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be upholding this complaint in the same way as the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons.
Given the parties responses to the investigators view, there dont appear to be any 
significant matters in dispute other than the award of compensation. For sake of clarity 
however Ive made some brief findings about the issues that were originally brought to us 
and developed for a short time after. 
I understand there are some matters that Ms P is still unhappy about in terms of how Aviva 
is currently handling her claim, but I cant address those as they amount to a new complaint. 
If she remains unhappy, she can first raise the matter with Aviva and then bring it to this 
Service as a new complaint. I have however dealt with as many of the matters in dispute as I 
can within this decision.
The starting point is the policy terms. Ms Ps policy, like virtually all other before the event 
insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of success and for the claim to 
be proportionate to pursue We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A 
privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or 
that the amount they might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We 
wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurance to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. The panel firms advice was that Miss Ss 
claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success and wasnt proportionate to pursue. And 
whilst that advice was delivered by a Paralegal, I can see that he was supervised by 
someone suitably qualified who checked and signed it off. So, Im satisfied Aviva did nothing 
wrong here. But I agree with the investigator that what Aviva did next was to act outside the 
scope of its policy terms, which say:
 If you do not agree with the lawyers opinion and you find a different lawyer, at your own 
cost, or you already have a lawyer who supports your view, then we will be happy to offer a 
review of the case. The opinion of your chosen lawyer must be based on the same 
information regarding the claim that you provided to us. The lawyer conducting the review 
will be chosen jointly by you and us. If we cannot agree on who this lawyer should be then 
we will ask a relevant law society to appoint one. The reviewing lawyer will assess the case 
and we will abide by their decision. We will pay for the cost of this review and should they 
decide in your favour we will also pay any cost that you incurred for your chosen lawyers 
second opinion
When Ms P presented her solicitors opinion Aviva should have offered to appoint a joint 
lawyer- at this point wed usually say a barrister- to consider things afresh. Ms P would have 
been given the opportunity to agree the identity of the barrister failing which the relevant law 
society- which would most likely have been the Bar Council- would have been asked to 
appoint someone appropriate. If that review confirmed there were reasonable prospects of 
success and the claim was proportionate to pursue then Aviva would reimburse Ms P for her 
solicitors costs. They would also pay the barristers costs irrespective of the outcome of that 
opinion. But that didnt happen here. Instead Aviva put the matter to their panel firm who 
instructed a barrister to provide an opinion. Because the opinion was negative Ms P went to 
the expense of obtaining her own opinion which was supportive of her claim. I think all of this 
could have reasonably been avoided had Aviva acted in accordance with its policy terms 
and I agree that an award of compensation is appropriate in this case because they failed to 
do so.Ms P has given a detailed account of her underlying health conditions and how Avivas 
conduct has affected her. I think its clear that Ms P was already suffering considerably from 
the stress caused by the underlying dispute with her landlord and matters relevant to that 
involving another tenant. Her health conditions would also have contributed significantly to 
the stress she felt as result of this. And I dont doubt that Aviva turning down her claim at 
every juncture also caused her stress. I cant however say that the cause of her suffering 
was entirely Avivas fault. So, whilst I accept that their failing to agree the appointment of a 
joint barrister sooner would have undoubtably caused her stress, I dont think it was that 
alone that was responsible for the way she felt. But I do accept that it might have made 
things worse for her. The award suggested by the investigator of £250 is in line with what I 
think is appropriate here. Thats because it compensates her for the delay in getting to a 
point where she had a definitive answer on her claim and the stress caused to her, which 
exacerbated how she felt during this time. So, essentially, Im compensating Ms P for the 
period of just over two months. That represents the time between Ms P providing her own 
solicitors opinion and the time she provided her own barristers opinion. Im not however 
recommending any further compensation beyond this period. Thats because I think Aviva 
would have accepted her claim as soon as she provided the details of her barrister. I know 
Ms P was reluctant to do this, which accounted for the delay in cover being accepted, but I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to request these details so they could check 
whether her barrister was suitably qualified.  I appreciate my award of £250 will be 
disappointing for Ms P but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this is 
the appropriate in the circumstances. 
I know Ms P was unhappy with the time Aviva took to deal with things for her. Ive looked at 
the timeline from the time she made her claim until things concluded as well as the volume 
of correspondence between her and Aviva. Having done so I dont think Aviva caused any 
unreasonable delays other than the issue Ive compensated Ms P for above. On the whole, 
they acted within their service standards. In some instances, they responded to Ms P sooner 
and in a couple of cases slightly later. Where that happened, I dont think this caused any 
significant detriment to Ms P such that Id consider Aviva need to do anything more. 
Given how things unfolded and what should have happened, I think its appropriate for Aviva 
to reimburse Ms P for both her solicitors and barristers fees. Neither party appear to be 
disputing this approach so Ive made an award for this below which accords with the 
investigators findings. 
Putting things right
Aviva should reimburse Ms P for her solicitor and barristers costs in providing opinions in 
support of her claims and pay her £250 in compensation for the trouble and upset it caused 
her by not offering to instruct a barrister on a joint basis after Ms P provided her own 
solicitors opinion. Aviva should also pay Ms P interest of 8% per year simple1 on her 
solicitor and barristers fees from the time she paid them, until theyre reimbursed.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ps complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and direct it to comply with my 
award of fair compensation above. 
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give Ms P a certificate
showing this if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman