DRN-3198361
The complaint
Miss M complains about her insurer, UKI Insurance Limited (UKI). Her complaint is about 
how UKI settled a claim for the theft of her bike under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2021 Miss Ms bike was stolen from a locked bike stand, away from her home. She 
reported the theft to UKI and lodged a claim for the loss. When she took out her policy, she 
added cover for Additional Specified Pedal cycles outside the Home with a sum insured (for 
her bike) of £600. UKI considered Miss Ms claim and to settle it they offered her either 
vouchers redeemable at a range of suppliers, to the value of £592, or a cash settlement of 
£503.20. The cash settlement figure was lower as it reflected the discounts UKI could secure 
from suppliers. UKI also applied a policy excess of £250 to both options, meaning that Miss 
M would receive net figures of £342 (vouchers) or £253.20 (cash settlement).
 
Miss M was unhappy at UKI applying the excess to the settlement options, believing it wasnt 
clearly set out in the policy, so she complained to UKI. UKI didnt uphold her complaint. In 
their final response, UKI referred to section 3 of the policy (personal possessions) which said 
that (for sections A, B or C) there was a policy excess of £250. UKI also said the policy 
stated that theft of bikes came under section A, so the excess had been correctly applied.
Miss M complained to this service. She was unhappy at UKI applying a £250 excess to her 
claim, saying that the policy schedule provided when she took out the policy didnt show any 
sum under the Policy Excess Amount column.  So, she didnt think any excess applied to 
claims for loss of bikes. She said that, had she realised a £250 excess would apply, she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and would have taken out cover from another insurer. 
Miss M thought that applying the excess to the settlement offered meant she was faced with 
a £250 loss. Miss M also provided information above the level of excess in policies offered 
by other insurers (including specifically for cycle insurance). Miss M asked that UKI waive 
the £250 excess and amend their policy documentation to make the excess position clear.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that the part of the policy schedule 
referring to the additional cover taken out by Miss M was misleading as it didnt clearly 
specify that an excess was payable. The investigator also thought that, had Miss M known 
about the £250 excess, she wouldnt have taken out the additional cover and her 
understanding that there wasnt an excess on the additional cover was a key reason she 
took out the policy with UKI. Based on this, the investigator thought that UKI hadnt acted 
fairly in applying the £250 excess.
UKI disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. UKI said that all claims considered under the personal possessions part of the 
policy (which would include Miss Ms bike) were subject to the £250 excess. UKI also 
provided additional information about how Miss M took out the policy online, which they felt 
supported their view that it was clear a £250 excess would apply.
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion to uphold the complaint. I 
concluded that it was clear that an excess of £250 applied under the policy, that it covered 
personal possessions and that bikes were included under personal possessions. I also 
concluded that UKI acted in accordance with the policy terms when applying the £250 
excess to Miss Ms claim for the loss of her bike.
Because I disagreed with the investigators conclusion to uphold the complaint, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things 
further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Miss M.
The key issue in Miss Ms complaint is the application of an excess of £250 to her claim. It 
isnt about the value of the settlement options offered to Miss M for the loss (before the 
excess was applied). So while Ive not considered that question specifically, Ive noted that 
both options are less than the specific insured value of Miss Ms bike (£600). Its also 
common practice for insurers to be able to obtain discounts from suppliers and for these 
discounts to be reflected in lower values for cash settlement offers. Thats not unreasonable.
Coming back to the £250 excess, Miss M maintains that the policy documentation  
specifically the policy schedule  didnt include any excess figure against the line for 
Additional Specified Pedal Cycles outside the Home. The line lists Miss Ms specific model 
of bike and the figure of £600 in the column for Sum Insured. Its true that the adjacent 
column to the value (headed Policy Excess Amount) is blank. However, Im not persuaded 
that this means there is no excess applicable. There are other lines in both Section 2  
Contents and Section 3  Personal Possessions that set out limits for Valuables (Section 2) 
and Unspecified, Single Article and Pedal Cycles (Section 3) that dont include figures in the 
Policy Excess Amount column. Both Section 2 and Section 3 are set out in bold, as are the 
paragraphs applicable (A, B and C for Section 3  Personal Possessions). I think that makes 
it clear that the excess applies to all the lines in the respective sections.
 
Also, reference to Additional [Specified Pedal Cycles outside the Home] suggests this is not 
a separate section, but supplementary information about a specific item (model of bike) 
including its value (sum insured) as this is higher than the normal limit of £500 for pedal 
cycles and that additional cover is provided away from the home. Inclusion of a Pedal 
Cycles line under Section 3  Personal Possessions would also indicate that pedal cycles 
were included under that section (and consequently that they were subject to the £250 
excess specified).
In their response to the investigators view, UKI also provided a copy of the information from 
the online screens that Miss M would have seen when she took out the policy. From this, I 
can see that Miss M took out contents insurance (not specialist cycle insurance) and that 
she answered yes to the question about whether she owned a bicycle valued at more than 
£500. Miss M then stated that she needed cover for her bicycle and put in a value of £600. 
The next section sets out the excesses applicable, where a figure of £250 is entered against 
the heading Policy excess. Under this heading it states:
This is the amount you have to pay towards a claim and includes a £100 compulsory 
excess (excluding Escape of Water and Subsidence). If you choose a higher excess 
it may reduce your premium. A lower excess may increase your premium.
As the screenshot indicates a figure of £250 was entered, it suggests (as its higher than the 
£100 compulsory excess) that the value of £250 was chosen by Miss M. The same figure is 
also subsequently listed as Policy Excess in the summary of cover section at the end. From this, Ive concluded that it would have been clear that a £250 excess would apply (including 
to Miss Ms bike, being listed specifically).
Another point made by Miss M is that had she realised the £250 excess applied, she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy. Also, that other insurers charged a lower excess for cycle 
insurance. On the first point, given my conclusion that the £250 excess was clear, then I 
dont agree with Miss Ms argument. On the second point, while other insurers may offer 
different terms for cover (and I note that some of the examples provided by Miss M were for 
specialist cycle insurance, which she didnt take out with UKI) this doesnt make UKIs terms 
(including the level of excess) unfair or unreasonable. Particularly as Ive concluded that the 
level of excess was clear from the documentation and information available to Miss M.
 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that it was clear that an excess of £250 
applied under the policy, that it covered personal possessions and that bikes (in general and 
a specified model and value of bike) were included under personal possessions. I think UKI 
acted in accordance with the policy terms when applying the £250 excess to Miss Ms claim 
for the loss of her bike.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M responded to make two points. Firstly, she disagreed with the reference in my 
provisional decision to Additional [Specified Pedal Cycles outside the Home] suggesting it 
wasnt a separate section, but supplementary information about a specific item. Miss M said 
that most lay people wouldnt interpret additional to mean supplementary information about 
an item listed in the previous section.
 
Secondly, Miss M noted the reference in my provisional decision to:
Its true that the adjacent column to the value (headed Policy Excess Amount) is 
blank. However, Im not persuaded that this means there is no excess applicable. 
There are other lines in both Section 2  Contents and Section 3  Personal 
Possessions that set out limits for Valuables (Section 2) and Unspecified, Single 
Article and Pedal Cycles (Section 3) that dont include figures in the Policy Excess 
Amount column. Both Section 2 and Section 3 are set out in bold, as are the 
paragraphs applicable (A, B and C for Section 3  Personal Possessions). I think that 
makes it clear that the excess applies to all the lines in the respective sections.
Miss M said that she didnt agree with my conclusion that I think that makes it clear that the 
excess applies to all the lines in the respective sections. She argued that UKI are expecting 
policyholders to identify that an excess applies (and which excess amount applies) from 
reading the policy document. Even though the Policy Excess column has entries against 
some items but not others, not all the policy excess amounts are the same, and that theres 
a horizontal line separating the main items and the additional [line] for a pedal cycle above 
£600 in value. She thought that UKI should have made the position clear by putting in a 
value [for each line] in the Policy Excess Amount column.
UKI responded to say they had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Ive considered Miss Ms points carefully. On her first point, Miss M says that most lay 
people wouldnt interpret additional to mean supplementary information about an item listed 
in the previous section. I dont agree, for the reasons I set out in the provisional decision. 
That is, the reference to Miss Ms specific model of bike is there because its value (Sum 
insured) is higher than the normal limit of [Up to] £500 [per cycle] for pedal cycles (which is 
clearly listed under Section 3  Personal Possessions). I also think its clear that including a 
Pedal Cycles line (and two others) not in bold font would also indicate that pedal cycles 
were included under that section (and consequently that they were subject to the £250 
excess specified against the bold font Paragraphs applicable heading for A, B and C.
I also think this latter point (about lines not in bold font, as opposed to those in bold font) is 
relevant to Miss Ms second point. While I can see Miss Ms point that UKI should have 
made the position clear by putting in a value [for each line] in the Policy Excess Amount 
column, I dont agree that not doing so makes it unclear (and therefore unfair and 
unreasonable).
The other factor that I considered in my provisional decision (which Miss M didnt comment 
on) was the information from the online screens that Miss M would have seen when she took 
out the policy. This indicated that Miss M chose and entered an excess figure of £250 and 
that, as the figure was subsequently listed in the summary of cover section at the end, it 
would have been clear that a £250 excess would apply (including to Miss Ms bike, being 
listed specifically).
For these reasons, I havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains 
the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman