DRN-4063083
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with several aspects of the service he received from Lloyds Bank Plc 
surrounding a £1 refund he received into an account he held with another bank.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr B received a £1 payment into an account he held with another bank. 
The payment was referenced as Mortgage Refund. Mr B was concerned the payment may 
relate to a scam and so contacted his other bank about it, at which time he was referred to 
Lloyds, given that the sort code of the sending account was a Lloyds sort code.
Mr B spoke with Lloyds to try to understand why hed received the £1, especially as he didnt 
have a mortgage with Lloyds. After considerable time and effort on Mr Bs part, it was 
eventually understood that the £1 payment related to a refund of a £1 payment that Mr B had 
made to a company within the Lloyds group, with whom he did hold a mortgage. Mr B wasnt 
happy at the time and effort hed had to expend trying to get to the bottom of what had 
happened, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr B in how theyd managed the situation and 
so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. So, he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that any further action 
was reasonably required from Lloyds regarding Mr Bs complaint. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Lloyds have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr B has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr B for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr B notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr B and Lloyds. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr B has explained that when he received the £1 payment into his account marked as 
Mortgage Refund  which happened on 13 December 2021  he was unaware what this £1 
refund might refer to.
However, Mr B has explained to this service that one week earlier, on 6 December 2021, 
hed made a £1 payment to a mortgage account he held with a company that was part of the 
Lloyds group. And in consideration of this point, its difficult not to conclude that Mr B should 
reasonably have suspected that the £1 refund hed received, which was listed as being a 
Mortgage Refund, might have something to do with the £1 mortgage payment hed made 
seven days earlier.
I arrive at this position even in consideration of the fact that the source of the £1 refund 
wasnt immediately clear from the information available to Mr B on the statement of the 
account into which it was received. I say this because £1 payments to a mortgage arent a 
common event, and Mr B has explained that he only made the payment to ensure that the 
payee details werent deleted from his other banks online platform because of inactivity. And 
I also feel its reasonable to suggest that Mr B could have checked the mortgage account to 
which he paid the £1 to check whether that £1 had been received. 
This isnt to say that Mr B hasnt been inconvenienced by what happened here. But it is to 
say that I feel that Mr B could and fairly should have mitigated against this inconvenience by 
taking what I feel was a reasonable course of alternative action in line or similar to that which 
Ive described above.
Mr B is seeking compensation from Lloyds for the time and effort that he had to expend 
resolving this matter to his satisfaction. But I dont feel that it would be fair to instruct Lloyds 
to pay such compensation when the time and effort expended could have been avoided 
through reasonable alternative action.
For instance, Mr B has explained that when he contacted Lloyds to question what had 
happened, the agent he spoke with wanted Mr B to speak with Lloyds mortgage 
department, whereas Mr B wanted to raise a complaint. But it seems reasonable and logical 
to me that Mr B should have spoken with Lloyds mortgage department  even in 
consideration of the fact that Mr B didnt hold a mortgage with Lloyds as a company directly 
 given that the £1 payment was listed as a mortgage refund. And I feel that this may have 
been another missed opportunity to have resolved this issue more quickly.
Furthermore, this service also considers the potential impact of events being complained 
about. And, in this instance, its difficult to quantify the impact of a £1 refund to an account 
with the 20 hours of time and effort that Mr B has explained hes expended trying to 
understand it. 
Mr B has said that he was concerned that the £1 payment may have been a part of a scam. 
But I dont feel that the receipt of a £1 payment into an account is commonly indicative of a 
potential scam, and I feel that Mr Bs other bank  into whose account the £1 was received  
or Lloyds themselves, may potentially have been able to ease Mr Bs concerns about this.
Again, this isnt to say that Mr B hasnt spent time and effort trying to resolve this matter. But 
I do feel Mr B should reasonably have been aware that the £1 mortgage refund he received from Lloyds may have had something to do with the £1 mortgage payment hed made a 
week earlier to a company within the Lloyds group.
Ultimately, given the circumstances of this complaint, I dont feel that it would be fair to 
instruct Lloyds to compensate Mr B for inconvenience I feel he could and should reasonably 
have largely avoided, and which was about a £1 refund which appears to have had little 
potential to have detrimentally impacted Mr Bs financial position. And it follows therefore 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman