DRN-2753928
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) valuation of 
her car following a car insurance claim. She wants Advantage to pay her an amount which 
allows her to replace her car on a like for like basis.    
What happened
Mrs Bs car was stolen so she reported this to Advantage who made an offer of £30,740 to 
settle her claim. Mrs B felt the value was too low so she complained. Advantage responded 
and explained they had used motor trade guides to arrive at a valuation and the figure they 
had offered was the top guide price. They said they couldnt increase this any further.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He thought Advantage hadnt acted unfairly in 
their valuation. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mrs Bs car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, under the heading How your claims are settled, if Mrs Bs car is stolen, 
Advantage will pay the market value of her car immediately before the loss. Market value is 
defined as: 
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar make, model, age and condition. Publications may be 
used which refer to vehicle values such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value, 
with an allowance being made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of 
purchase by you.
Advantage told Mrs B this was the same approach taken by this service in valuation disputes 
and provided a link to our website. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, 
we obtain valuations from motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand 
vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices.  
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types 
of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. The dispute relates to the valuation, so, the next 
point Ive considered is whether Advantage acted fairly when carrying out their valuation.  
Mrs B is unhappy with Advantages valuation of her car as she thinks its worth more. Ive 
seen that Advantage reached this figure by using industry recognised tools to find out the 
market value of the car. They obtained valuations from two motor-trade guides and used the 
highest of the valuations, in this case Glasss, to arrive at the figure of £30,740. I can see 
that this took into account the make, model, age, mileage and specification of Mrs Bs car. 
I can see our investigator looked at three motor guides to get their valuations for Mrs Bs car 
at the time of the theft. I can see this also took into account the make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and extra options. Using CAP the market value given was £30,100, Glasss 
gave a figure of £30,920 and Cazana £31,848. So, the average of these three valuations is 
£30,956  meaning Mrs B received a settlement figure well within the range of valuations.  
Its clear theres a difference between some of the valuations, for example, between the 
valuation Advantage obtained from Glasss and what our investigator obtained. Im aware 
that CAP, Glasss and Cazana make updates to their valuation algorithms, which can have 
an impact on the valuation of a vehicle if completed at different times. I can see theres a 
four-month period between Advantage carrying out their valuation check and our service 
carrying out the check using the same motor trade guide. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
for there to be a difference  which in this case is £180 when using the Glasss guide. The 
important point here is that Advantage have provided evidence of their initial valuation  
which was checked around six weeks after the theft. So, I cant say theres been an error by 
Advantage if the guide values have changed. 
Taking this all into account, I cant say Advantage have acted unreasonably. The terms and 
conditions set out how Advantage will settle a claim and the process they use to arrive at a 
market value. The guides they have used refer to advertised and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. Their valuation report 
shows they have factored in all material details relating to Mrs Bs car. And, in line with the 
terms and conditions, their valuation report shows theyve considered the market value 
immediately before the loss. On this basis, I cant say Advantage have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in arriving at their valuation.     
I can see Mrs B has provided a valuation of £32,375 if buying her car from a dealer. This has 
been taken from the website of a car magazine. Theres also a HPI document which has 
been completed by a car dealership which values the car at £32,000. Mrs B says a sales 
adviser at the dealership said they would be selling the car for £32,000 on the forecourt. I 
can see Mrs B also refers to the range of factors these valuations take into account. I wish to 
reassure Mrs B I have taken into account her points, but this doesnt persuade me that 
Advantage have acted unfairly. And I also need to point out that its not up to this service to 
place an exact valuation on Mrs Bs car. Its our role to make sure Advantage is giving Mrs B 
a fair price. And based on the information provided about Mrs Bs car and using the trade 
guides, I think £30,740 is a fair price. 
 
I appreciate Mrs Bs concern with the amount she was offered, and that she feels it falls 
short of allowing her to buy a like for like car in similar condition. And I understand this 
situation is more frustrating considering it arises out of the theft of Mrs Bs car. However I 
cant say that the offer Advantage made is unreasonable, so Im not directing them to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman