DRN-2583457
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) renewed his home 
emergency policy without his consent.
What happened
In 2017, Mr Y took out a home emergency policy with Homeserve for an introductory price of 
£12. In 2020, Mr Y complained to Homeserve that it had renewed the policy in 2018 and 
2019 without his consent, as he hadnt received any renewal documents. He said he would 
never have agreed to the price increases when the policy renewed. He wanted the 
premiums refunded.
When Homeserve replied to the complaint, it said it had written to Mr Y each year to advise 
of the policy renewal, the premium and that the policy was still active. So, it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It also explained that the premium increases were a business decision as part of 
the terms and conditions. Homeserve said that Mr Y had also complained that it hadnt 
replied to letters and online chat. It said this wasnt the level of service it aimed to deliver and 
apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Mr Y complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Homeserve had provided evidence that it had sent the renewal documents to the correct 
address, but that it wasnt responsible if these then werent received. The documents had 
laid out the terms and conditions. Mr Y had also said that he had noticed money being 
deducted from his account and that Mr Y thought he had contacted Homeserve about this. 
Our investigator said he thought Mr Y seeing the payments being deducted from the account 
would have put Mr Y on notice that there was an issue and that he should contact 
HomeServe.
As Mr Y did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive read the documents sent to Mr Y when he first took out the policy. These said:
Your premium may increase at renewal  You will receive your new policy
documentation in advance of renewal to give you time to consider whether the cover is still 
right for you  your cover will automatically renew on the terms in your new policy 
documents unless you tell HomeServe you do not wish to renew.
So Im satisfied that when Mr Y took out the policy he was told that the policy would 
automatically renew and that he needed to contact Homeserve if he didnt want this to 
happen.
Ive also looked at what happened when the policy renewed in 2018 and 2019. Homeserve 
has provided evidence from its systems that shows the date on which the renewal notices 
were sent and that these were sent to Mr Ys address. So Im satisfied that Homeserve sent 
the renewal notices.
Mr Y has said that he didnt receive the renewal notices, that he isnt responsible if the post 
is lost and that proof of sending isnt proof of receipt. I have no reason to doubt that Mr Y 
didnt receive the renewal notices. However, I dont think this means Homeserve must refund 
the premiums paid for the two years in which the policy renewed. This is because although 
Homeserve was responsible for sending the renewal notices, it wasnt responsible for 
delivering them. So, if they werent received that wasnt down to the actions of Homeserve. 
Homeserve did what it said it would, which was that it would automatically renew the policy 
and would send renewal documents in advance of this happening.
Mr Y has also said that he was aware of the premiums were deducted from his account on a 
quarterly basis, although they were difficult to notice in his transactions. He said that he had 
also contacted Homeserve in 2018 and 2019 and had started an online chat with Homeserve 
in 2020, but it was cut off. Homeserve was unable to provide any evidence of contact from 
Mr Y between the time he first took out the policy and him contacting Homeserve in July 
2020. But based on what Mr Y has said, I think this indicated that he was aware he had a 
Homeserve policy in place and could have asked Homeserve to cancel it if he no longer 
wanted the policy. Mr Y also said that he was unable to follow up with Homeserve due to 
health issues. I accept that it may have been difficult for Mr Y to follow up, but this doesnt 
persuade me that Homeserve therefore needs to refund the premiums.
Mr Y is also concerned about the premium increasing each year following the introductory 
offer expiring. He said that the wording wasnt clear enough as it only said that the premium 
may increase, not that it shall increase. I dont think this wording in the policy is unusual. 
Mr Ys premiums do seem to have increased each year, which was permitted within the 
wording of the terms and conditions. I dont think the wording was misleading or that this 
suggested that Homeserve acted unreasonably by increasing the premium.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman