DRN-3871266
The complaint
D, a limited company that is part of a business grouping, complains about the way that Metro 
Bank PLC dealt with an application for new accounts and that it will no longer provide any 
banking services.
What happened
The director of D explains that he wanted to open an account for the holding company of D. 
He was told that he would need to arrange for a subsidiary company to be moved from the 
business grouping. And then that accounts at Metro Bank for all the companies in the group 
would be required. Applications were completed but none agreed. And then Metro Bank told 
him that the existing accounts would need to be closed too.
Metro Bank apologised for the communication and the poor service. It paid D £100 in 
compensation. It said it had given notice to close all the accounts due to the business being 
outside of our banking appetite. When it provided its business file to this service it said that 
it had reassessed things and offered a further £100 in compensation making a total of £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything further. She said that when a 
relationship manager told D to remove the subsidiary there couldnt have been certainty that 
an application would be successful. And that Metro Bank needed to make appropriate 
checks. It was entitled to decide whether or not to agree the new applications and to review 
the existing accounts. But the service and communication had been poor, and the director 
had asked in February 2022 whether Metro Bank still wanted its business. The director had 
asked for compensation at his professional rate and for the costs of paying a consultant to 
identify a new bank for D and complete due diligence. But she didnt think it reasonable that 
Metro Bank pay these costs.
The director didnt agree and said that the compensation was paltry. The relationship 
manager was clearly in contact with the compliance department about the latest position. 
The director said that the cost of rearranging the subsidiaries had been more than £200. 
Using a consultant was a last resort as it had been difficult to find an alternative financial 
business. There were two parts to consider. The time waiting for an answer about the new 
accounts and the hoops jumped through. And also, that the existing accounts were to be 
closed without sufficient warning and after hed specifically asked about them at a much 
earlier stage.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2022. I set out below what I said.
I first needed to say that this complaint is set up in the name of D which is the business that 
Metro Bank issued a final response to. That seems to be a pragmatic way off dealing with 
what happened with the whole business group here and so the new applications and then 
the notice of closure.
It was clearly a matter for Metro Bank to decide whether and on what terms it would offer an 
account for the holding company. Having said that I didnt consider it should reasonably 
have asked D to take significant steps unless it had established that it would accept the 
application. At the least it should have told D clearly that even if it moved the subsidiary 
there remained a chance that the account application wouldnt succeed. Or alternatively that 
the application was subject to this if it had been agreed. When it asked for applications for 
the other subsidiaries that didnt have existing accounts this ought to have been expected to 
be a productive activity. And not end in those applications being declined.
As far as the existing business accounts were concerned I thought D did have a concern 
about whether Metro Bank wanted a continuing relationship. It asked about that in February 
2022 but didnt receive the notice of closure until as I understood it May 2022. Thats why it 
says it ought to have had longer to make its arrangements. I didnt think thats quite right 
because when Metro Bank did decide to end the relationship it gave 60 days notice. Had it 
brought that decision forward then the closure date would have been earlier too. So, while I 
didnt doubt the general inconvenience and poor communication involved the time pressures 
wouldnt in my view have been different.
I didnt see Metro Bank could be responsible for any difficulties D had in finding a new 
financial business or for the costs involved. Metro Bank took a commercial decision and 
provided the notice of closure required under its terms and conditions.
compensation
I said that we dont tend to make awards based on units of time or professional rates. And as 
Id set out I wont be considering the costs including of the third-party consultant. And we 
dont make punitive awards. There are though several distinct elements here which I did 
consider Metro Bank responsible for.
There was the needless inconvenience of moving a subsidiary business. D explains that this 
was a dormant company for a client and that the change in filing arrangements and 
movement was a mess of transfers and paperwork and that this caused a reputational 
impact. There was also then the inconvenience of putting in applications for the other 
businesses. I wasnt persuaded from what Metro Banks provided that those applications in 
themselves revealed any new information. And I thought it should have reasonably been 
able to provide an indication of its banking appetite much earlier on. There has also been in 
my view miscommunication about the position and poor service and the general time it took 
to reach a decision about the applications. 
Id taken into account our published guidance about compensation and applied my own 
judgement. I was thinking about things overall and said I wouldnt be breaking this down into 
elements. I considered that the appropriate compensation for everything that happened is a 
total of £750. I appreciated that remains less than the director wants. I said hes free to make 
further submissions and as an alternative to our informal dispute resolution service to pursue 
this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither D nor Metro Bank made any further comments having been reminded about the 
opportunity to do so by our investigator. That being the case I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay D a total of 
£750 compensation (and so a further £650 to whats already been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman