DRN-4443257
The complaint
Mr J, as director of the limited company B, has complained that Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Mr J has explained that his bag was stolen while on a train abroad. Amongst other 
belongings, it contained Bs Cashplus debit card. The card and PIN were then used for over 
£4,300 of cash machine and point-of-sale payments. Mr J said he was travelling alone, the 
PIN was a random number which he hadnt shared with anyone, and the only written record 
of the PIN was his PIN reminder from Cashplus, which was safe back at home in the UK and 
not in the stolen bag. He reported the matter late because he initially forgot that the 
Cashplus card was in that bag.
Cashplus held B liable for the payments in dispute, on the basis that they couldnt see a 
likely way that a thief couldve learned the PIN without consent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint in full, on the 
suggestion that it was technically possible someone couldve guessed the PIN. Cashplus 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr J and Cashplus a provisional decision on 30 October 2023, to explain why 
I thought only the contactless payments should be refunded. In that decision, I said:
Broadly speaking, Cashplus can hold B liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that Mr J authorised them, or if he failed to keep the account safe either 
intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
Im satisfied from Cashplus technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Bs 
genuine card, and for the non-contactless ones: the correct PIN too. This was not a cloned 
card, and the PIN was not bypassed. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated.
The main issue here is how someone might have learned the PIN. Mr J had not used the 
card and PIN before the disputed payments started, so there was no opportunity for a thief to 
watch him enter the PIN and then steal the card. Hed not told anyone the PIN, and it was a 
random number rather than one which could realistically be deduced. It is exceptionally 
unlikely that a thief would happen to simply guess the PIN. And no one who Mr J knew was 
with him at the time, so this could not have been done by a known party.
This leaves only two likely and plausible possibilities:
1.) That Mr J authorised the payments, either by making them himself or giving someone 
else permission to make them; or
2.) That despite his best recollections, Mr J did keep a record of the PIN with the card.
I do not think that the first possibility is most likely. Mr J has provided comprehensive 
evidence that he completed his journey, and so at the times the disputed payments took 
place, he was far away. Hes also evidenced that he reported the other belongings in the bag 
as stolen at the time, and paid to replace them. And he gave consistent testimony about the 
theft in his police reports.
And so based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities, the most likely explanation 
for how the PIN was used is that Mr J kept some kind of record of it in the stolen bag along 
with the card. And that would mean Mr J failed to keep Bs account safe in line with the 
terms and conditions. It may be that he did this knowingly, or by not taking enough care. But 
it is widely understood that keeping a note of the PIN with the card is very risky, since 
anyone who has the card is then able to use it without further checks  which seems to be 
what happened here. And theres no other plausible conclusion I can reasonably reach.
That means Cashplus can hold B liable for the payments which used the PIN. The 
contactless payments which did not use the PIN  totalling around £40  would still need to 
be refunded as unauthorised. The contactless transactions could be made by anyone who 
came across the card, and did not need the PIN, so failing to keep the PIN safe is not a 
relevant consideration for those payments.
Mr J questioned why Cashplus didnt send a text message or one-time passcode for these 
payments. As Mr J will know from his other accounts, such one-time passcodes are more 
relevant for other payments like online banking, rather than card payments. Bs card was 
already protected by its encrypted microchip and the PIN, which only Mr J shouldve known. 
I also dont see that Cashplus needed to flag or block these payments  they were each for 
relatively modest amounts, made using the genuine card and the correct PIN which only 
their customer shouldve known. So at the time, to Cashplus it would have looked like it was 
Mr J making the payments.
In summary, based on the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way that someone made 
these payments without Mr Js consent, unless he failed to keep his PIN safe either 
intentionally or through acting with gross negligence. This means that Cashplus can decline 
a refund for the payments which used Bs PIN. This is a difficult message for me to give, and 
I know its a difficult message for Mr J to receive. But given the evidence I have and the 
balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Cashplus confirmed they had 
nothing more to add. Mr J said there was no more evidence he could give. But he did have 
some further points and queries, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr J questioned whether any of the disputed transactions were made online. To confirm, 
none of them were made online. They were all in-person payments made using the physical 
card. There were a few contactless payments which only used the cards chip. The majority 
used both the chip and the correct PIN.
Mr J reiterated that he was sure he hadnt kept a record of the PIN with the card, saying he 
was extra security conscious due to his career. He accepted he couldnt prove that he hadnt 
kept such a record, but he also pointed out it was not proven that he had. I understand 
where he is coming from and appreciate his strength of conviction about this. I agree with 
Mr J that I cannot categorically prove what happened one way or the other. Instead, my 
decision is based on the balance of probabilities. Here, the disputed payments were 
authenticated properly using the genuine card and, for the bulk of them, the correct PIN. It 
was not a cloned card and the PIN was not bypassed for any of the chip and PIN payments. 
The transactions could not have been made by anyone who Mr J knew. There was no 
opportunity for a thief to watch Mr J entering the PIN beforehand, Mr J had not shared the 
PIN, and the PIN was a random number that could not realistically be deduced. And the 
chances of a thief simply guessing the PIN on the first try are about 1 in 10,000, or a 0.01% 
chance. So we can be about 99.99% sure that that did not happen.
That means the only likely and plausible possibilities remaining are that Mr J either 
authorised the payments or kept a record of the PIN with the card. I dont think he authorised 
the payments, for the reasons I discussed in the provisional decision. So him keeping a 
record of the PIN with the card, despite his best recollections, is the only likely and plausible 
possibility remaining. I can then only fairly conclude that thats what most likely happened.
Mr J reiterated that he thought Cashplus shouldve blocked the payments, and again I do 
understand his point of view. I accept that the payments totalled a significant amount in the 
end. But the starting point in law is that banks are expected to process payments that a 
customer authorises them to make. And to Cashplus, it wouldve looked like it was Mr J 
making the payments, since they were made using the genuine encrypted card and the 
correct PIN. I dont find that the payments were sufficiently suspicious that I should say 
Cashplus shouldve definitely stopped them.
Lastly, Mr J said Cashplus shouldve stopped further payments from being made when he 
reported his card as stolen. To clarify, they did. His card was blocked. It may just appear as 
if some payments were made afterwards as transactions can take time to finish processing, 
and the statement date will often be later than the date the payment was actually made. And 
Cashplus were not able to stop card payments which had already been made before the 
block, even if the payment then took some time to finish processing.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to:
refund the disputed contactless transactions only; and-
pay simple interest to B on those contactless transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a 
year, payable from the date they were last debited until the date theyre returned. 
This is to compensate B for the time it didnt have its money. If Cashplus considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct 
tax from that simple interest, they should tell B how much tax theyve taken off. They should 
also give B a tax deduction certificate if Mr J asks for one. Mr J may be able to reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if B doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Bs complaint in part, and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to refund the 
contactless payments and add simple interest, in the way I set out above.
If B accepts the final decision, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must carry out the 
redress within 28 days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman