DRN-2491082
The complaint
Mr L has complained The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund him for multiple transactions 
he says he didnt make between July 2019 and September 2020
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator broadly for the same 
reasons. 
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 7 January 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ls testimony.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant rules here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. So 
when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them. 
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Co-op and Mr L have told us. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I dont think its unreasonable for Co-op to conclude that Mr L 
authorised the transactions he disputes. Ive explained why below:
On 9 September 2020 Mr L initially disputed four payments to PayPal which were made 
using the card details he had at the time (card 3). Mr L says he doesnt use PayPal anymore. 
But the evidence from the merchant indicates that the transactions were made using the 
same address, phone number and IP address and other details connected to Mr L. The 
transactions were consistent with other undisputed activity on his PayPal account over the 
previous 18 months. The evidence from the merchant also indicates the items purchased 
were delivered to Mr Ls address. Mr L told us he lives with his father, but his father knows 
nothing about these transactions. So, on balance I think it more likely than not that Mr L or 
someone with Mr Ls authority made these transactions.
Mr L then raised multiple disputed transactions for purchases made at a grocery store. The 
store is around four minutes walk from Mr Ls address, although he told us he knows 
nothing about this local store. The disputed transactions span from 15 July 2019 to 3 
September 2020. During this period the transactions were made using three consecutive 
cards; each one reported stolen and replaced with a new card.
The first card (card 1) was used between 15 July 2019  15 June 2020. There are multiple 
disputed transactions. Card 1 was reported stolen and card 2 issued. There are two disputed 
transactions on card 2 between 17 June  13 July 2020. The evidence shows all the 
disputed transactions on these two cards were made using a contactless PAN token. PAN 
tokens are created when a card has been loaded to Apple pay on a mobile device, such as 
an iPhone. The evidence shows that Mr L had registered both card 1 and card 2 to Apple 
pay. It also shows that the device registered had the same mobile number as Mr Ls mobile 
phone and the iPhone device name was Mr Ls first name. 
Card 3 was issued after card 2 was reported stolen and was used between 13 July 2020  3 
September 2020. There are multiple disputed transactions made at the same grocery store. 
The evidence shows that these transactions were linked to a Curve card account. They 
show on the statements with CRV* in front of the merchants name. All transactions on card 
3 that have CRV* all have the same Payment Account Reference  this applies to 
undisputed and disputed transactions. A Payment Account Reference is a unique identifier 
associated with a specific cardholder PAN. PAN tokens are created because the Curve card 
has been uploaded to an application on Mr Ls mobile phone device  in a similar way to his 
bank card on Apple pay.
The transactions take place over a period of many months and there are undisputed 
transactions that take place in between the disputed ones  also using the same Apple pay 
or Curve card application payment method. Mr L told us he does not share his phone with 
anyone, and the phone has no passcode. He told us the device is unlocked using his finger 
print.
So even if I only rely on what Mr L has directly told us, he hasnt provided us with any 
possible scenario whereby someone else, either known or unknown to him, couldve gained 
access to his mobile phone to make the payments. Mr L did say it is possible to set up a 
second finger print on a mobile device. Whilst that may be true, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that this was the case here and, in any event, Mr Ls original finger print would be 
needed in order to set this up. 
So, in reviewing all the evidence I think its more than likely Mr L either made the 
transactions himself or gave someone else authority to make them on his behalf. 
In addition, the pattern of the payments is inconsistent with that of an unknown fraudster with 
full access to Mr Ls banking. There are also unusually large gaps, between disputed 
payments. More commonly a fraudster will try to take as much as they can, as quickly as 
possible, before they are discovered as any delay risks their access being blocked.
As I have already mentioned, there were also multiple undisputed transactions between the 
disputed ones over a significant period of time. If they were made by someone else, I think 
Mr L ought reasonably to have noticed the disputed transactions and raised this sooner with 
Co-op.
So, Ive concluded that this was more likely than not these were authorised payments. It 
would not be fair or reasonable for me to ask Co-op to do anything further as I dont believe 
Mr L has been a victim of fraud.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman