DRN-1910502
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd (FCA) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr L bought a used car on the 18 January 2019. The car was six and a half years old and 
had travelled 59,889 miles. The car cost £3513 and Mr L took out a finance agreement with 
FCA over 54 months. Mr L explains that there have been numerous faults with the car, 
including poor repairs and inadequate servicing. He says that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him. Mr L complained to FCA in July 2019 and said he 
wanted to reject the car.
FCA agreed that there had been some issues with the car and that the car now needed 
some repairs. It said that it wasnt responsible for these repairs but as a gesture of goodwill it 
was prepared to contribute £250 towards the cost. Mr L didnt think this was enough and 
asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator looked into the issues with the car and the problems Mr L had experienced. 
She thought that FCA hadnt done anything wrong. In summary she thought that it was to be 
expected that the car would develop faults given its age, condition and mileage. She thought 
that as Mr L had been able to travel around 10,000 miles the car did not have a fault at the 
point of supply.
Mr L didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the dealership that supplied the car 
knew of the problems and that FCA had not dealt with his complaint appropriately. He said 
that this service had not properly evaluated the evidence and had accepted the account of 
the dealership and FCA. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr L - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that 
time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mrs M was six and a half years old, had been driven for 59,889 
miles and had a price of £3,513. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that 
the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There were some issues with the car at the outset particularly in reation to coolant and oil. 
There were other items that were repaired under warranty. Mr L continued to complain about 
issues with the coolant light and oil levels. On 23 March 2019 the car was seen at the 
supplying dealership and the oil level was topped up.  
In September 2019 there was a repair to the exhaust and in November 2019 the radiatior 
was replaced. By the time of the radiatior repair Mr L had covered over 13,700 miles in 
ten months.
Theres clearly been faults with the car but Ive seen no evidence to show that the later faults 
with the radiator and exhaust were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr L. 
Although there were some early returns to the supplying dealership they were not for items 
that were later repaired and appeared to relate to bodywork and interior items. The tyre that 
had been poorly repaired was replaced. Further repairs were carried out to the front bodywork 
and the engine oil level was checked.
Mrs L has been able to use the car for ten months and to drive more than 13,700 miles in it 
before the car has required a replacement radiator. It isnt surprising that the car would need 
repairs to the exhaust system either given the mileage covered by the car overall. Although 
there have been repairs to the car, there isnt any evidence that the repairs were badly carried 
out or have not fixed the problems  so Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now 
were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr L.
I understand the point Mr L is making with respect to the servicing but I cant say that the car 
hasnt been serviced as Mr L suggests. I have no evidence directly from his mechanic and the 
service booklet shows the servicing was carried out. I dont dispute what Mr L says but based 
on the evidence I have seen I cant uphold this aspect of his complaint.     
So I think that it is unlikely that the issues Mr L has now with the car were there or developing 
at the point of sale. There is no evidence from any of the people who have inspected the car 
that the repairs are necessary because of pre-existing faults or poor repairs. I sympathise 
with Mr L for the issues that hes had with the car and for the repairs that it now needs  but 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him.
I find that the offer made by FCA of £250 to contribute to the repairs is fair and reasonable 
and I will leave it to Mr L to decide whether he wants to accept it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman