DRN-3744706
The complaint
Mr W complains that Fairstone Financial Management Limited provided him with poor advice
about his pensions and investments, causing him a financial loss. He says he was advised
to transfer an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a Collective Investment Account (CIA)
held with a company Ill refer to as OM and his Personal Pension Plan with a company Ill
refer to as A to another company, that Ill refer to as N, without his knowledge.
What happened
On 3 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
 In June 2019, Mr W met with one of Fairstones advisers, who Ill refer to as B. Fairstones
Fact Find showed Mr W was 61 years old, was not currently working and taking some
income from a workplace pension and his personal savings. Whilst Mr W wasnt currently
working, the Fact Find also recorded Mr W as planning to retire at 66. Mr W had around
£28,000 in personal savings accounts, and held the following products:
A CIA with OM, valued at around £3,100. Fairstone said it provided a return of 2.17% 
against a target of 3.84% for Mr Ws risk profile  so this fund had underperformed. 
Fairstone estimated Mr W paid around 2.4% of the value of his CIA in ongoing fees.
An ISA with OM, valued at around £50,950 which provided a return of 1.84% and had 
underperformed against inflation and Mr Ws benchmark in the long-term. Fairstone 
said the total annual charge for the ISA was 2.25% of the fund value.
A personal pension with A with a value of around £129,000. Fairstone said Mr Ws 
personal pension with A provided an annual return of 7.37% and outperformed the 
target for a Cautious Balanced fund. Mr W incurred no ongoing advice fee for the 
pension with A  it charged only a 0.47% investment fund charge.
The Fact Find said it would review existing pension at [A] as client would like servicing on
his plan, he selected active plan with 1% ongoing fee. It went on to say He would like to
use his CIA funds to invest into his ISA to use some of his allowance then transfer the ISA to
Nucleus invested in 50/50 Vanguard & Brewin. With 1% ongoing fee [Mr W] would like to
add servicing to his pension using Active plan+ noving [sic] to N as detailed above, also with
1% ongoing fee.
Fairstones adviser decided the pension with A did not continue to fulfil Mr Ws objectives,
so it recommended his pension be transferred to a platform provided by N.
Fairstone gave more information about its advice in its pre-retirement planning
recommendation report, Fairstone said Mr W wanted to review his pensions and
investments with the view of organising these to form a joined up and easy to administer
portfolio and Mr W felt pension flexibility in retirement would be beneficial. It went on to say:
You do not currently pay for an ongoing service from myself in respect of your 
pension and wish to build this in going forward. You wish this to be facilitated via your 
investments as you do not wish to pay for this separately. You currently pay an 
adviser service to me to manage your investments with Old Mutual Wealth (OMW), I 
am recommending a consolidated joined up overall strategy and my 
recommendations with regards to these investments with OMW is contained within a 
separate report.
Fairstone recommended Mr W transfer his pension with A to N because it was not aligned
to [his] current attitude to risk. The report said its adviser fee would be increased 0.47% per
year after the transfer. B considered adding his adviser fee to Mr Ws existing pension, but
the existing pension wouldnt allow Mr W to access a full flexible drawdown or the flexibility
Mr W required. It added the service from A was poor.
In its Services & Charges Agreement, signed by Mr W on 14 August 2019, Fairstone set out
its charge for providing advice to Mr W as a new client. It said its initial charge for its advice
would be 3% of the transfer value of Mr Ws existing plans, which is £5,499.48. Fairstone
acknowledged the higher fees would increase the charges Mr W would pay, but ongoing
advice will hopefully improve the performance of your fund and minimise losses by ensuring
the fund is risk appropriate. Fairstone also recommend Mr W invest into two different plans
invested in different portfolios that were both set up less than a year before Fairstone gave
its advice, so it couldnt offer a performance comparison with Mr Ws existing pension and
fund choices. The pension suitability report said Mr Ws existing plan with A allowed income
drawdown and fund switching, and had 200 alternative funds available.
In its investment planning recommendation report, Fairstone said Mr Ws wanted to build up
financial security and use the advisers help with regular reviews of his investments.
Fairstone recommended Mr W sold the funds held within his CIA and invested them into an
ISA held with N because one of Mr Ws objectives was to invest in the most tax-efficient
manner. Fairstone acknowledged Mr W was unlikely to incur any Capital Gains Tax liability
at present.
Fairstone also recommended Mr W transfer his OM ISA to an ISA held with N as it was
better suited to Mr Ws objectives and would reduce the costs paid for the ISA. Fairstone
recommended Mr W split the funds held in his ISA into two funds. Again, the funds
recommended were set up less than one year Fairstone gave its advice so it couldnt provide
a suitable comparison between the new funds and Mr Ws existing ISA. The overall annual
cost of the funds recommended was 1.88% of the fund value, including an ongoing advice
fee. It estimated this was less than the 2.64% charge, including an ongoing advice fee, for
Mr Ws existing funds with OM. Fairstone would also charge an initial advice charge of 3% of
the fund value (£1,618.96).
Mr W signed Fairstones documents to say he accepted its recommendations and the
transfers went ahead. Fairstone prepared another Annual Review Report for Mr W on
17 August 2020. The report said B spoke to Mr W by phone on 14 May 2020. Having been
updated on Mr Ws current situation, B said the arrangements it had in place for him were
performing as expected and remained aligned to the objectives agreed with Mr W. It listed
Mr Ws holdings with N:
Pension 1 valued at approximately £64,100
Pension 2 valued at approximately £63,200
ISA 1 valued at approximately £26,400ISA 2 valued at approximately £26,200
Fairstone told this service that Mr Ws pensions and ISAs each sat in two separate
wrappers, as each pension and ISA was invested into different funds. The annual report
listed the costs applied to Mr Ws pensions and ISAs, which included £1,612.53 as a one-off
fee for ongoing/initial servicing costs and £113.17 for ongoing fees for platform charges,
fund charges and ongoing advice costs.
In 2021, Mr W met with a new financial adviser. Having done so, he complained to Fairstone
about its advice given in 2019. Mr M said he had difficulty reading and wasnt aware hed
been advised to transfer his pensions and investments elsewhere. He was concerned he
was paying higher charges than before and wasnt aware hed been charged £3,000 for the
advice to transfer his pension.
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint, Fairstone said it was apparent from Mr Ws records
that he had a long relationship with B and it didnt consider Mr Ws vulnerability to be
relevant. Fairstone said its advice can only be judged on its suitability you received [sic] at
the time in and around August 2019 and it had no reason to call that advice into question.
Fairstone noted Mr W signed declarations that he had read and agreed with the
recommendations B had made and had signed its document listing the charges for its
advice.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. He said he cannot
use computers and had received a lot of paperwork through the post but has difficulty
reading. Mr W said hed attended Fairstones offices twice and it wasnt explained what he
was signing for. When asked by one of our Investigators, Mr W couldnt recall signing any
document to agree to charges and was unclear on what charges were applied to his pension
and investments.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and thought it should be upheld. Our
Investigator didnt think Fairstones advice to transfer the pension from A to N was suitable,
as the pension could have been rebalanced in line with Mr Ws attitude to risk without the
transfer. Our Investigator also thought Fairstone didnt do enough to explore other options
than transferring the CIA into an ISA with N. So, our Investigator recommended Fairstone
take steps to compensate Mr W if hed suffered a loss after following Fairstones advice to
transfer his pension. He also recommended Fairstone pay Mr W £200 compensation for the
inconvenience caused. Fairstone didnt say if it agreed with our Investigators opinion, so this
has come to me for a decision.
I then set out why I thought this complaint should be upheld, and what I thought Fairstone 
should do to put things right. Neither Fairstone nor Mr W responded to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to this complaint responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
say anything different from the reasons I gave before for upholding Mr Ws complaint or 
change my recommendation about what Fairstone should do to put things right. Ill repeat my 
reasons here. Mr W has complained Fairstone recommended he transfer his CIA, ISA and pensions to N
without his knowledge in addition to the increased costs involved in the transfer. Fairstone
argued Mr W confirmed he had read and agreed to Fairstones August 2019 report and
charges agreement by signing to say he had done so  but I treat this with caution given
Mr W has said, in his own words, that he doesnt read or write very well. But regardless of
whether Mr W understood the recommendations Fairstone made, Fairstone still had to
provide suitable advice to Mr W. Ill deal with Fairstones advice regarding Mr Ws CIA and
ISA first.
Mr Ws CIA and ISA with OM
Fairstone said Mr Ws CIA and ISA were underperforming compared to the appropriate risk
benchmarks and there was an anticipated cost-saving in moving the ISAs.
Based on what Ive seen, remaining with OM would have involved higher costs and the
funds were not performing as hoped. Mr W was already paying an ongoing advice fee, and I
dont think it was unreasonable for this to continue once Mr W transferred his ISAs. From
what Ive seen, it doesnt seem unreasonable that Mr W wanted ongoing advice to check his
investments remained suitable for him. Unlike our Investigator, I dont think theres anything
unreasonable about Fairstones advice to transfer the CIA into an ISA and switch to a
cheaper provider  and the ongoing saving of around £400 on annual charges and potential
for growth would offset the £1,618.96 of transferring the OM investments to N.
Its not clear that theres any benefit from the CIA and ISA being transferred into two
separate ISAs, but Ive not seen any evidence to show having two ISAs with N instead of
one has caused Mr W a financial loss. So, at the moment, I think Fairstones advice here
was suitable. And even if there were any failings in Fairstone making Mr W aware of its
recommendations and the implications of those, I think, on balance, Mr W would have
accepted its recommendation to move his CIA and ISA into two ISAs with N because of the
possible lower costs and greater returns on his investments.
Mr Ws pension with A
Mr Ws pension with A was, according to Fairstone, performing well and Mr W was happy
with it. The Fact Find says Mr W wanted servicing to be added to his pension. Its unclear
why Mr W would want that  and I think its unlikely this was Mr Ws desired objective  it
certainly isnt a valid investment objective that should have guided Fairstones
recommendation. I note the Fact Find wasnt signed by Mr W, so theres no evidence to
suggest he was made aware of the Fact Finds contents.
Fairstone said Mr W would benefit from transferring his pension from A to N as A offered
less flexibility. But A offered Mr W flexible drawdown and 200 alternative funds. So, its
unclear why these features didnt offer sufficient flexibility or why N offered greater flexibility
that would benefit Mr W. I say this particularly as Fairstone said Mr W required flexibility but
has provided no reasons to support its claim.
According to the information Ive seen, Mr Ws projected income needs would be mostly
covered by his state pension once he reached 66. He didnt have any dependants and had
around £50,000 held in ISAs and from the details available. So, it seems to me that Mr Ws
dependence on his pension for his income needs was minimal. But I think being able to
make ad hoc withdrawals from the pension would likely be useful, if he needs extra money
any year or if he had any unforeseen expenses. The pension suitability report said the
pension with A already allowed income drawdowns. So, it seems to me that Mr Ws pension
with A already met his needs. And if he was looking for better performance, he could have
completed an internal fund switch.Fairstone said Mr W would benefit from easier administration  but Mr W only had one
pension with A and Fairstones recommendation would split the pension into two separate
plans. So, I think this made it harder to compare performance and charges in comparison to
the pension with A. Overall, I dont think theres enough evidence to show there was a
convincing reason for Mr W to transfer his pension from A into two policies with N. So I think
the advice to transfer was unsuitable. Ill explain what I think Fairstone should do to put thing
right below.
Putting things right  Mr Ws pension
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr W would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given
Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Fairstone do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Fairstone must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's pension with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider, A. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Fairstone should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
Fairstone should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Fairstone is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr W is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal 
the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able to take a tax 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice given, if 
it has not already done so.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Fairstone deducts income tax from the
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Fairstone should give Mr W a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Nucleus 
Fairstone 
Passive 4 Still in 
existence 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be heldNot 
applicable
Nucleus 
Fairstone 
Brewin 4 Still in 
existence 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be heldNot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr W's investment had it remained with A until the end date. Fairstone
should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Mr W's personal pension with A should be deducted from the
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return
in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Fairstone totals all those payments and deducts that figure
at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Fairstone will need to
determine a fair value for Mr W's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr W's
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I require Fairstone Financial Management Limited to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision 7 August 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman