DRN-1622817
 
The complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs K took out a credit card in November 1998.
When looking at the very limited information (I have not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds has provided records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage. So I cannot be sure how or when the PPI was sold to 
Mrs K but I do know it was sold at some point between September 1998 and January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
As I have already mentioned neither Mrs K nor Lloyds can give me much information about 
the sale. This is not surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Ive looked at what 
Mrs K has said about how the policy was sold, including that she knew nothing about it and 
wouldve refused it if she had. But in the absence of relevant documentation, a more detailed 
recollection or further information to support what Mrs K has said, I cannot fairly conclude on 
this occasion that the policy was sold as she suggests it was. I would need to see more 
information to support what Mrs K has said to conclude otherwise. 
Lloyds isnt sure how the policy was sold, so to be fair to Mrs K, I will proceed that it likely 
provided a recommendation to her to buy the policy. This placed more responsibility on 
Lloyds and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Mrs K.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems to have 
been suitable for her. I say this because although Mrs K says she would have had at least 
full sick pay for 6 months and savings, I think the benefit provided by the policy would have 
been of use to her. It would have covered a percentage of the outstanding credit card 
balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if she was unable to work or if she lost 
her job.Lloyds also had to provide Mrs K with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
PPI so that Mrs K could make up her mind as to whether she felt the policy would have been 
useful to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information. Lloyds say the cost of the policy would have 
been 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with what I know about 
how Lloyds priced other policies at around the same time.
Ive carefully thought about the cost of the policy and taking into account Mrs Ks 
circumstances at the time, I still think she would have bought it. I say this because as I 
explained above I still think the policy would have been useful if Mrs K was out of work for a 
lengthy period.
Mrs K also doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information about this wouldve stopped her buying the policy.
In conclusion, based on the available information I have regarding the sale and Mrs Ks 
circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman