DRN-1187836
 
The complaint
Ms F has complained about Pinnacle Insurance Plcs decision to settle a third party claim 
and for pursuing her for the excess payment due under her car insurance policy. Ms F is 
being represented by a friend in her complaint, Ms S.
Pinnacle is the lead insurer in this case. All references to Pinnacle in my decision include its 
agents. 
 What happened
Ms F bought a car insurance policy through a broker. In March 2015 Ms F reported to the 
insurer, Pinnacle that her car had been damaged in a car park. Ms F said she didnt witness 
the incident that led to the damage. 
Pinnacle reminded Ms F that the excess under her policy was £3,000. In a letter sent to Ms 
F a few days later, Pinnacle said it would tell her if it settled a third party claim and asked her 
to complete an accident report form. 
Ms F decided not to claim for repairs to her car as she thought the costs were lower than the 
excess. 
In September 2016 a third party representative wrote to Ms F requesting payment of their 
costs. Ms F then asked Pinnacle to deal with the claim under the policy.
Between September 2016 and March 2019 Pinnacle responded to requests for information 
from the third party representative. There were long periods of time in between waiting for 
the third party to reply, but Pinnacle wasnt responsible for any delay. 
In March 2019 Ms F contacted Pinnacle as she received a court order demanding the third 
party claim costs be paid. Pinnacle told Ms F that it would deal with the claim costs, but that 
Ms F would be responsible for the excess payment. So Pinnacle would look to recover this 
from Ms F. 
Pinnacle decided to settle the third partys claim for £1,953.82 based on the evidence 
provided by the third party who said Ms F had collided into the rear of their car. So it 
requested the same payment sum from Ms F as the excess due under her policy. 
Ms F complained to Pinnacle. She was unhappy with having to pay the outstanding amount 
and that it had been passed to debt collectors. But Pinnacle said it had acted correctly. 
 
Ms F asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Pinnacle could have 
updated Ms F periodically between September 2016 and March 2019. But Ms F was aware 
of the incident and the third party claim. After listening to key call recordings, she was satisfied that Pinnacle had acted reasonably. So she didnt recommend Ms Fs complaint 
should be upheld. 
Ms F didnt agree. Her representative Ms S says Ms F is in no position to repay the debt. 
She believes Pinnacles terms and conditions are unfair. 
Our investigator provided information about agencies that may be able to help Ms F with 
debt problems. 
As Ms F didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ms F has made a separate complaint about the sale of the policy against the broker. So this 
doesnt form part of my decision. 
Ive looked at whether the insurer of the policy acted reasonably and in line with the policy. I 
think it did and Ill explain why. 
Ms Fs policy says that it has an all sections excess of £3,000. I think this was clearly 
explained in Ms Fs policy document.  I also think that when Pinnacle settled the third party 
claim, it clearly explained that if Ms F didnt pay, it would pass the debt to a debt recovery 
agent. This is also outlined in Ms Fs policy.
As Pinnacle received a claim from the third party, it was obliged to consider that claim as the 
insurer for Ms F. 
We dont decide liability as that is a role for the courts. Pinnacles policy says that it can take 
over the defence and settlement of a claim. So this means Pinnacle might make a decision 
Ms F doesnt agree with, but the policy allows Pinnacle to do this. We dont disagree with the 
term in principle provided the insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
Based on the evidence provided by the third party, I think Pinnacle reached its decision to 
settle their claim reasonably. 
I understand Ms F is very upset at having to pay the excess and I appreciate that the calls 
between her and Pinnacle were difficult due to the nature of what was being discussed. But I 
dont think Pinnacle aggressively pursued Ms F for the excess sum. I think it acted in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. I think Pinnacles decision to settle the third party 
claim was reasonable. And as it met the claim, its entitled to look to recover the costs of the 
claim under the excess payment Ms F correctly owes.
I think its fair for Pinnacle to consider agreeing a reasonable repayment plan with Ms F. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, save for I think Pinnacle should 
consider agreeing a reasonable repayment plan with Ms F for the amount correctly owed 
under the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman