DRN-4206474
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he lost 
when he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP scam).
What happened
In March 2022 Mr C fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But in summary, its not in dispute that Mr C was contacted by a fraudster, 
who had intercepted an exchange of emails hed had with a solicitor, regarding a property  
Mr C was purchasing. The fraudster tricked Mr C into making the following payments that he 
thought were towards the property, but that were actually made to an account controlled by 
the fraudster;
15 March 2022 £25,000
16 March 2022 £25,000
17 March 2022 £25,000
18 March 2022 £25,000
Mr C has explained that he had been communicating with his genuine solicitors by email. He 
had previously successfully made a payment to his solicitors for £14,000 on 26 January 
2022 (made up of a tester payment for £1, followed by a payment of £13,999), which was for 
a deposit towards the property. On 14 March 2022, Mr C received an email, from what 
appeared to be his solicitors genuine email address, saying that funds should be transferred 
into a trust account in readiness for completion, and that these should be paid from that day 
according to his daily online account limit.
Mr C has said considering the emails from the fraudsters were from his solicitors genuine 
address, included details of the correct balance due on the property and as they had been 
communicating by email for months, he thought he was genuinely dealing with his solicitor.
The scam came to light when, after the fourth payment was made, Bank of Scotlands fraud 
detection systems picked up that large amounts were leaving Mr Cs account. It 
recommended that Mr C called his solicitor to check the payment instructions were genuine 
and when Mr C did this, it was confirmed that Mr C had been dealing with fraudsters.
Mr C raised the matter with Bank of Scotland. Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland issued its final response on 17 May 2022, 
upholding the complaint in part. In summary it said it appreciated the emails (from the 
fraudsters) werent significantly different for Mr C to notice they were intercepted, but that 
due to the warning it had given, it would have expected Mr C to have contacted his solicitors 
before he had paid. It added that genuine emails from Mr Cs solicitors had warned of 
invoice related scams and that the bank had also provided relevant warnings, which Mr C 
had chosen to ignore.
Bank of Scotland added that it didnt think the first payment Mr C had made was significantly 
out of character, but that it became out of character when he made the three following 
payments over consecutive days. Bank of Scotland therefore thought it should be liable for 
50% of the final three payments made and it refunded £37,500 to Mr Cs account on 24 
March 2022. Alongside this Bank of Scotland apologised to Mr C as he had to chase for a 
decision and was given incorrect information in branch, in recognition of this it compensated 
Mr C with £80.
Bank of Scotland also contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were 
made) to try and recover the money Mr C had lost, but it was only able to recover £63.49, 
which was returned to Mr C.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response Mr C then brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in full. In summary she said it was 
the banks responsibility to provide Mr C with an effective warning, not the solicitors he was 
dealing with. She added that she didnt consider the warnings Bank of Scotland provided 
could be considered as effective. As well as this, on review of Mr Cs usual account activity, 
she thought the first payment ought to have triggered an intervention by Bank of Scotland.
It was our Investigators view that the emails from the fraudsters were from the genuine 
solicitors address and she didnt think any change in their format was enough to have alerted 
Mr C that something was amiss, or that they were so different that they should have aroused 
suspicion. Our Investigator recommended that Bank of Scotland should refund the remaining 
loss, along with interest.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree with our Investigators position. In summary, for reasons it had 
already set out it maintained that Mr C should share liability with it. But having looked at 
things again, it offered to refund Mr C 50% of all of the payments, meaning it was increasing 
its offer by a further £12,500.
Mr C didnt accept Bank of Scotlands revised offer. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr C made fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement).
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
So, in deciding the fair outcome for this complaint, I must first determine whether Bank of 
Scotland has established these exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly applied.
I have carefully considered Bank of Scotlands representations about the warnings it gave 
and whether Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view to our Investigator. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey.
I appreciate that the warning Bank of Scotland gave when Mr C made his first payment is, in 
part, relevant to the type of scam Mr C fell victim to. Im persuaded the warning attempts to 
cover scams relating to a customer receiving an invoice or a bill. But the warning is not 
specific enough to the type of scam that Mr C was falling victim to, and that Bank of Scotland 
ought to have been aware of, given Mr C had told it the payment was for a house deposit.
The warning doesnt go far enough to make the risk of this specific scam really obvious to 
customers. It doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does it talk about the 
prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be. For example 
 it doesnt explain that fraudsters emails appear to come from the same email address as 
the account theyve hacked, that they can communicate with their victims on a genuine chain 
of emails or that fraudulent emails are usually received when a payment request is expected 
or that fraudsters emails can seem genuine and look the same or very similar to the 
persons theyre impersonating. It also doesnt make it clear that any money sent as a result 
of a scam would be lost and likely irrecoverable, which is a requirement under the CRM 
code.For broadly the same reasons, I dont find the warnings Bank of Scotland had said it 
presented Mr C with when he went on to make his subsequent payments could be 
considered as effective warnings. They are not specific to the type of scam Mr C is falling 
victim to.
I dont underestimate the challenge Bank of Scotland faces in providing warnings strong 
enough to break the spell in a sophisticated scam such as this. But the difficulty of meeting 
that challenge does not mean that the warnings given by Bank of Scotland here were 
sufficient or contained enough clarity to meet the minimum requirements in the CRM Code.
Overall, Im not satisfied Bank of Scotlands warnings, met the requisite criteria here. I dont 
consider the warnings given were  effective warnings as defined by the CRM Code. It follows 
that Bank of Scotland has not established it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement 
relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Even though Ive concluded the warnings were not effective, I appreciate the warnings did, in 
part, have some relevance to the scam Mr C fell victim to. So, for completeness, Ive gone 
on to think about whether Mr C reasonably moved past the warnings to proceed with the 
payment, given the particular circumstances of the fraud that he fell victim to.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I have carefully considered Bank of Scotlands representations about whether Mr C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But it does not persuade me 
to reach a different view. I say this because;
- Mr C wasnt aware of how email impersonation / intercept scams worked and hadnt 
previously been a victim to this type of scam. He was expecting to make a payment 
in regard to the property he was purchasing, so it wasnt a surprise for him to have 
received a request for payment. I can see why it would have been especially 
believable where the fraudsters knew the correct amount of payment that was 
required and the emails appeared to come from the same email address as Mr Cs 
genuine solicitors.
- Bank of Scotland has argued that Mr C ought to have questioned why the funds had 
to be sent to a trust fund. Mr C has said he didnt think to challenge the change in 
bank details, because he assumed the purchase funds would be held separately. On 
balance, I can understand why he thought it was plausible for a solicitor to request 
the funds to be paid into a different account. It is not uncommon for firms to have 
different accounts for different purposes and Im mindful here the funds Mr C was 
sending were ultimately intended to be for the owner of the property he was 
purchasing, rather than money for the solicitor. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for him to have thought these funds may be held in a holding account.
- Bank of Scotland has said Mr C didnt try a tester payment first (as he did when 
paying a deposit to his solicitors genuine account). Bank of Scotland is correct in that 
Mr C didnt make a test payment, as he had done previously. However, I dont think 
this takes away from the belief he had that he was dealing with his genuine solicitor 
and, in any event, its unlikely that even if he had of done, it would have made a 
difference. Its likely the test payment would have been successful, so Mr C would 
have carried on making the payments regardless.
- Im also mindful that Bank of Scotland has said the fraudsters initially provided Mr C 
with an incorrect sort code. But Im not persuaded this in and of itself is enough for Mr C to have reasonably suspected that things may not have been as they seemed. 
Mr C was then provided with an alternative sort code, from who he thought was the 
genuine solicitor. I think its fair and reasonable that Mr C accepted the revised 
details, after all, he thought he was communicating with his genuine solicitors, and 
had no reason to doubt what they had sent him.
- I have seen a copy of the emails from the genuine solicitor and the fraudsters and I 
dont think there was enough of a difference to have alerted Mr C to the potential they 
had been intercepted. Which, Bank of Scotland has agreed with in its final response 
letter to Mr C, where it said it appreciated the emails werent significantly different for 
Mr C to have noticed they were intercepted.
- Bank of Scotland has also pointed to a warning the genuine solicitors provided in a 
footer of emails it had sent previously, which advised customers to speak to solicitors 
before transferring money. Its important to note that the fraudsters emails did not 
contain the disclaimer. I dont think its unreasonable that Mr C didnt notice the 
absence of the disclaimer and I dont think the absence is remarkable. It not being 
present also means that Mr C wouldnt have read the disclaimer just before making 
the payment. And it seems the fraudster deliberately removed the disclaimer/didnt 
include the disclaimer in their email to maximise the chance of the scam succeeding. 
Im not persuaded the inclusion of the disclaimer, on earlier emails, means that Mr C 
didnt act reasonably, or made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the money was being sent to his genuine solicitor.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Bank of Scotland has been able to 
establish that when Mr C sent the payment he did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Could Bank of Scotland have done anything else to prevent the scam?
In addition, I think Bank of Scotland ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this 
scam.
When looking at the activity on Mr Cs account, in the months leading up to the scam I think 
the first payment he made, for £25,000, wasnt typical of how he usually operated his 
account. Although I can see Mr C did make a large payment to his genuine solicitors a 
couple of months previously, Im persuaded that a payment for a significantly larger amount 
to a new payee ought fairly and reasonably to have led to Bank of Scotland wanting to 
satisfy itself that Mr C wasnt at risk of financial harm, before allowing the payment to be 
progressed.
Considering this, I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Bank of Scotland to have 
intervened and questioned Mr C at the point he was making the first payment to a new 
payee and for it to have asked him some questions, before allowing the payments to be 
processed. Had it done so, I think the scam wouldve quickly unfolded and Mr C wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the first, or the subsequent payments. Im persuaded this is supported 
by what happened when Bank of Scotland did contact Mr C after hed made his fourth 
payment to fraudsters, when the scam was uncovered.
The relevance of this finding is that Bank of Scotland ought to have prevented the loss, 
rather than just reimbursed Mr C under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that Bank 
of Scotland should pay Mr C interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not 
to refund him under the CRM Code.Finally, Ive considered the compensation that Bank of Scotland paid Mr C for the delays and 
incorrect information that he was provided. I recognise Mr C has fallen victim to a cruel and 
callous scam, which has impacted him and I dont underestimate how difficult a time this 
must have been for him. But I think its important to highlight that the vast majority of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this event was caused by the fraudster. And it isnt 
reasonable to hold Bank of Scotland liable for that. With this in mind I think the £80 Bank of 
Scotland has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should now;
- refund Mr C £62,500 being the remainder of the money he lost (less the £63.49 that 
was recovered).
- pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date of transactions to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman