DRN-1767187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Elderbridge Limited (Elderbridge) has charged them incorrect 
monthly repayments on their loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a £100,000 loan in 2006 with Company A, to be paid over 300 
months. This was transferred to Elderbridge in January 2016. And in August 2019, Mr and 
Mrs F spoke to Elderbridge to ask for the remaining balance, contractual monthly 
instalments (CMI), interest rate and remaining term.
Mr and Mrs F input this information into several online mortgage repayment calculators and 
found the monthly repayments to be lower than the figure Elderbridge had quoted. So they 
complained and asked for an explanation.
Elderbridge investigated the complaint and accepted the CMI on Mr and Mrs Fs account 
had been inaccurate. It said the CMI had been calculated in February 2018 when the interest 
rate had changed, but that Mr and Mrs F had increased their direct debit in April 2018, and 
again in October 2018, in order to make overpayments. 
Because of these overpayments, Elderbridge said Mr and Mrs Fs outstanding balance was 
significantly lower than the amount that was originally used to calculate the CMI in February 
2018  so this amount was no longer needed to repay the loan by the end of the term. 
Elderbridge explained it doesnt have a process to review accounts unless prompted. And 
apologised as the CMI provided in August 2019 hadn't taken into account the overpayments 
Mr and Mrs F had made. It provided a recalculated CMI and said any further overpayments 
would continue to affect the remaining balance and potentially reduce the CMI further. It also 
said it could provide a recalculated CMI in future if asked.
Mr and Mrs F explained they werent confident in Elderbridges calculations given what had 
happened. Elderbridge confirmed the remaining balance and corrected the CMI amount 
quoted on its previous letter, and reassured Mr and Mrs F that the CMI wasn't affecting how 
much was being reduced from the loan.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He felt that whilst Elderbridge had accepted the 
initial CMI quoted was inaccurate, it hadn't affected the payments being made towards the 
balance as they had elected to increase their monthly repayments anyway. He added 
Elderbridge wasn't obligated to automatically recalculate the CMI and didn't think it had 
caused any financial detriment overall to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F didn't agree, saying their confidence in Elderbridges calculations was 
impacted. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs F were given an inaccurate CMI figure when they asked 
Elderbridge for this information. The CMI essentially represents the minimum monthly 
payment they would need to make to fully repay the loan by the end of its term.
Elderbridge has said the CMI it quoted in August 2019 didn't account for overpayments 
which was the reason for the difference. It said the CMI doesn't update automatically when 
overpayments are made, so the CMI remained the same on its system even though Mr and 
Mrs F had increased their payments across 2018. 
Due to these overpayments, the correct CMI wouldve been less than what was quoted as 
the balance of the loan wouldve been further reduced due to the overpayments. 
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs initial confusion when they carried out their own repayment 
calculations. But the CMI amount was, and will continue to be affected by overpayments. 
And Elderbridge has explained that this difference in CMI doesn't impact the loan reduction 
overall providing that theyre paying more than the CMI sum, which they have been. 
Overall, Im satisfied that despite Elderbridge providing the wrong CMI, Mr and Mrs Fs loan 
still benefited from the overpayments they elected to make and because of this they havent 
experienced any financial detriment.
Elderbridge has apologised for the CMI figure not being accurate when they called in August 
2019 but has given its reasons for this. And it has said it will recalculate the CMI in future if 
Mr and Mrs F request it. In the circumstances Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
solution to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have raised concerns whether Elderbridge will calculate this correctly in the 
future, but I cant pre-empt this. So Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reason I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman