DRN-2915976
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt discuss with Mr S the cost 
of transferring money overseas before a transaction took place. Mr S says he wouldnt have 
continued with the transaction, had he known the final amount he had to pay.
What happened
Mr S was looking to make a payment of around £100,000 to a business located overseas 
from a joint account he held with Mrs G. Mr S says in early February 2021, he checked 
online and noticed a company charging approximately £500 in fees to complete the 
transaction. Mr S says he visited a Lloyds branch to check how much they would charge as 
he felt more comfortable making the transaction there, due to the large payment he planned 
to make.
Mr S says branch staff processed the transaction for him and he was charged around 
£2,000. This covered the cost of fees and the exchange rate to convert the money to the 
desired currency. He says he couldnt recall the exchange rate or fees being discussed with 
him before he made the transaction. He believes the branch staff were nervous with the size 
of the transaction and may have forgotten to mention all the costs.
Later in the day, Mr S called Lloyds to recall the payment, but he says he was told it was too 
late to cancel it. Mr S complained to Lloyds saying he would never have continued with the 
transaction if he had known it would cost around £1,500 more than the company he found 
online.
Lloyds responded, declining his complaint. They say that branch staff did discuss the 
exchange rate and other costs before the payment was made. They say that it was also 
verified by another colleague in branch. Lloyds say no banking error occurred.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his and Mrs Gs complaint to us to review. Our 
investigator found that Lloyds hadnt made a banking error and that it would be unfair to ask 
Lloyds to do anything further. She explained that with differing opinions from both Mr S and 
Lloyds, on balance, it was likely costs would have been discussed before the transaction 
was processed. The investigator also explained that Mr S had shown ID to Lloyds and 
inputted his PIN to complete the transaction.
Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to decide. In 
reply to the investigator, Mr S says, among other things, that he had shown his ID and 
provided his PIN as Lloyds had asked him to confirm his identity. Mr S believes presenting 
this information to Lloyds doesnt show intent to make the payment. He also says that the 
two staff members involved in the transaction were confused who had confirmed the final 
costs with him, when in fact, he says neither of them had done so.
Mr S says he would like Lloyds to make a full refund of the fees they applied, as well as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience of having to make a complaint to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The first thing I must consider is the process Lloyds would need to follow to help their 
customers make an international payment. Lloyds has provided some of their internal 
documents. These show that before a payment is processed, the information that must be 
provided to their customer is the amount of charges applicable and how long the payment 
may take to reach the beneficiary. It also goes onto say that during the payment process, 
there are several things that need to be agreed before the payment is finalised. They are:
The amount of the transfer, in the currency used to debit the customers account.
The amount of the transfer, in the currency of the payment.
The total amount to be debited to the customers account, including the fee.
The exchange rate used.
The debit value date.
I have also seen details of the steps branch staff would have needed to follow to complete 
the process on their systems. At various points, Lloyds would have needed to ask or clarify 
information to proceed. For a successful payment to have been made following their own 
processes, Lloyds would have needed to discuss the charges and fees with Mr S before it 
was finalised. They say Mr S would have needed to check and verify the transaction with his 
PIN and his passport.
Mr S has told us that he doesnt believe costs were discussed before the payment was 
made. He also told us he believes the branch staff helping to complete the transaction may 
have got confused with who had disclosed its costs  and as a result, it wasnt shared with 
him. While I appreciate Mr S feels strongly about this, I must also consider what Lloyds has 
told me. 
Lloyds has said their branch staff did give the rate and the sterling equivalent to Mr S before 
the payment was made. They also say it was verified by another colleague in the branch. 
When there is differing opinion and I cant be certain of what truly happened, I must make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities and what I consider likely to have happened. 
Mr S says he visited a Lloyds branch as he wanted to check how much they would charge in 
making the payment. Considering Lloyds processes urge costs to be discussed before 
payment is finalised and Mr S wished to enquire about them in branch, I think it is more likely 
than not that it was discussed prior to the payment being completed. 
Mr S has said that he wouldnt have continued with the payment had he known the cost of it, 
as he had found it to be considerably cheaper elsewhere. However, he has also said that 
due to the large sums involved he felt more comfortable going into a branch to make the 
payment. Mr S wasnt bound to completing the payment in branch and could have withdrawn 
from it at any point before it was finalised. With that in mind, I think its reasonable to 
conclude Mr S wanted to continue with the large payment in branch, knowing the 
reassurance it would bring.
Lloyds has shown that Mr S provided them with his passport. I appreciate Mr Ss recollection 
is that he was told to put in his PIN and show his ID at the beginning of the conversation and 
it didnt show his intent to make payment. But I think on balance its more likely that Lloyds 
would have asked him to input his PIN at the point the transaction was being made.Ive also considered whether Lloyds acted fairly when Mr S enquired to cancel the payment 
and recover the funds. Having seen notes provided of the call that took place, I can see Mr S 
was made aware of the exchange losses he would have incurred to convert the currency 
back to sterling. I can see Mr S agreed not to recall the payment. So, Im satisfied Lloyds 
discussed options with Mr S for him to make an informed choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Mrs G as I can see Mr S firmly believes the costs of the 
transaction were not discussed with him before making payment. I do want to reassure him 
that I have carefully considered his points and arguments, but my role is to consider whether 
Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably. And for the reasons given, I think they have. Its 
unfortunate Mr S feels hes paid more than he should have. But I dont think Lloyds has done 
anything wrong in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman