DRN-2195368
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a theft claim she 
made under her motorhome insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs O reported the theft of her motorhome to her insurer, AXA. 
Mrs O told AXA - and later an investigator that she had left a spare working key for the 
motorhome in the glovebox. AXA relied on an exclusion under the policy which said it 
wouldnt provide cover if an ignition key was left in the motorhome at the time of the event. 
So AXA declined Mrs Os claim.
Mrs O complained to AXA about its decision. She said she didnt realise the significance of 
the spare key at the time. She remembered after speaking to her daughters partner that in 
January 2019 the spare key had stopped working  as he and her daughter had been with 
Mr and Mrs O when it happened. 
Mrs O said shes sure she didnt leave the spare key in the glovebox and had instead left it 
on a keyring with other keys which they always keep in their possession. Mrs O told AXA the 
last time she thinks she saw the spare key was when her husband locked the motorhome 
when he last used it.
AXA didnt change its decision. So Mrs Os daughter, on Mrs Os behalf, asked us to look at 
her complaint. Mrs O said the exclusion wasnt highlighted to her.
Our investigator thought it was fair that AXA placed more weight on the testimony from Mrs 
O which she gave when she first reported the claim  and 20 days later to the investigator. 
Although a friend and Mrs Os daughters partner provided witness statements, our 
investigator didnt think this was strong enough evidence to say AXA should overturn its 
decision.
She explained that the broker was responsible for issuing he policy documents to Mrs O 
when she bought the policy. So if Mrs O didnt receive them, she would need to contact the 
broker about that separately. The investigator thought the policy wording clearly set out the 
exclusion AXA relied on.
Mrs Os daughter didnt agree. She feels the evidence Mrs O provided after AXA declined 
her claim is stronger than the accounts she gave previously. She says that Mrs O tried not to 
dwell on the theft during the period between reporting the loss to AXA and being interviewed 
by the investigator. Mrs O regrets not considering all of the events sooner, but her daughter 
believes the outcome is unduly harsh. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion AXA relied on when reaching its decision says:
We will not cover loss or damage to your motorhome, accessories or spare parts 
following theft or attempted theft if it was unoccupied at the time of the loss or 
damage, unless all windows, sunroofs and all doors are securely closed and locked 
and the ignition key or other removable ignition device was not in or on your 
motorhome unless kept in a fixed, locked safe.
I think the exclusion was clearly set out under AXAs policy wording. 
When Mrs O first reported the incident, AXA asked where the second key was. Mrs O said it 
was in the glovebox of the motorhome. 
When an investigator interviewed Mrs O 20 days later, she said that the spare working key 
had been left in the glovebox along with other keys. The investigator verified that Mrs O had 
also reported the theft to the police and confirmed to them the same information in relation to 
the spare key. 
Ive carefully considered the reasons Mrs O and her daughter have given as to why they 
believe AXA should meet the claim. But I think it was reasonable for AXA to give more 
weight to the accounts given by Mrs O just after the theft, and to the investigator and the 
police  before the claim was rejected by AXA. All three accounts were consistent: the first 
account being given with the benefit of the information being fresh in Mrs Os mind: the later 
account with the benefit of time for anything that Mrs O might not have first recollected 
correctly. 
The investigator who interviewed Mrs O on behalf of AXA asked her where the spare key 
was and if it was working. Mrs O said it was in the glovebox and was working. The 
investigator asked Mrs O why she had left the spare key there. Mrs O gave a detailed reply 
as to the reason why she had left the key in the glovebox before the theft. 
I understand Mrs O is very disappointed with AXAs decision. But Im satisfied that it treated 
Mrs O fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. I think it properly 
investigated the claim. And I think AXAs decision to reject the claim by applying the relevant 
exclusion in this case was reasonable. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman