DRN-3195847
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W was given two loans by EDL in 2018 and 2020.
Loan 1 in January 2018 was for £5,000 repayable in 36 monthly instalments of about £410. 
The total amount payable, including interest was just over £14,783. 
Loan 2 in March 2020 was for £5,500 repayable in 36 monthly instalments of about £437. 
The total amount payable, including interest was just over £15,750. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that EDL had been wrong to 
provide Mr W with the loans. EDL didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the 
complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ws complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision each time? 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr W irresponsibly. The 
lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check 
each time. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would 
be able repay his loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but 
it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether EDL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr W.
EDL asked Mr W for information about his income and it acquired a credit report and two 
months bank statements. EDL allowed around 35% of Mr Ws monthly income for regular 
living expenses and it calculated his commitment to outstanding creditors. From what Ive 
seen, I think the checks that EDL carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr W each time were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, I dont think that EDL made a fair lending decision on either occasion and I will 
explain why.
EDL calculated that the first loan was affordable for Mr W. However, I think EDL focussed its 
calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr W on a pounds and pence basis. But 
as Ive already explained, the lender was required to establish whether the borrower could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it 
doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
EDL was aware from its checks when Mr W applied for his first loan that he had significant 
loan balance outstanding including a substantial HP commitment. Mr Ws credit checks also 
showed credit card defaults which Mr W apparently told EDL had occurred because he had 
been working overseas and had not been able to set up direct debit repayments. EDLs 
notes indicate that Mr W said he wanted to use his loan to settle debts which were by then 
with collection agencies. But from the information gathered, I think EDL ought reasonably to 
have realised that a more likely explanation for the defaults was that Mr W had been 
struggling financially to meet his repayments, despite the level of his income. EDL was also 
aware that Mr W had become a guarantor for a substantial loan on behalf of a family 
member  and therefore was at risk of having to meet these loan repayments (on top of his 
own existing creditors) if the Borrower was unable to repay the loan. Mr W was taking a 
substantial high cost loan from EDL, repayable over an extended period. On balance, given 
the information gathered, I think EDL ought reasonably to have realised that Mr Ws financial 
position was already showing signs of strain and that a loan of this scale was likely to tip him 
over into an unsustainable position whereby he would most likely struggle to meet his loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term. I dont think EDL ought reasonably to 
have provided the first loan to Mr W.
From what Ive seen, Mr Ws financial position had not improved substantially when he 
applied for his second loan with EDL. He appears to have defaulted on a utility account just 
prior to taking the second loan; his bank statements showed charges and fees for overdraft 
usage, at least one returned payment and his bank account remained in credit for only a 
short time after his salary was paid in before returning to an overdrawn status  despite the 
level of his salary. Overall, I think EDL ought reasonably to have realised that Mr W was 
most likely borrowing again to keep up with his financial commitments and that it was 
unlikely he would be able to repay the loan sustainably over the whole loan term without 
borrowing further. I think in these particular circumstances, EDL should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to provide the second loan to Mr W.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that EDL acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr W in some other way. But on balance, I dont think EDL ought to have lent to him 
on either occasion. So I am upholding this complaint and directing EDL to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loans and treat all the payments Mr 
W made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give Mr 
W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman