DRN-4331905
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) have held him liable for a loan he didnt 
apply for after being involved in a scam.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D saw an advert from a crypto currency investment company on a social media site. Mr D 
left his details with them and was later contacted by someone claiming to be a financial 
advisor from the company. Ill refer to the financial advisor as K. Mr D was asked to 
download a software package that allowed K to operate his computer  he was told this was 
to assist him with investing.
Mr D initially invested £200 in the firm and was provided with an online trading account 
showing the performance of his investment. After about three weeks, the investment 
appeared to have quadrupled. Mr D says he was called regularly by K who also messaged 
him repeatedly. He said that K was friendly and after showing Mr D his initial return, told him 
there was a special offer available to him if he invested £20,000.
Mr D obtained the money from a family member and invested £20,000 through K. He was 
then told there was an issue with the investment and sent a (fake) email explaining why 
there was a problem. Mr D was told in order to sort the issue out, a further £20,000 was 
needed. K tried hard to persuade Mr D to obtain the funds from other friends or family 
members. Mr D didnt have access to any more funds or people who could loan him the 
money.
K then told Mr D they had a sister company who could provide finance and if he got a loan, 
the crypto merchant would immediately repay it. Mr D said he told K he couldnt get a loan 
because of his current financial situation, based on his reduced income and outgoings. K 
told him to lie on the application and used the software on his computer to take him through 
the loan application.  A loan was subsequently applied for in Mr Ds name with Zopa.
Mr D used money from the loan to send several payments from to another bank account set 
up in his name. This account had been set up under the direction of K. Mr D then sent those 
funds to a crypto currency merchant where hed also been told to set up an account. 
Ill note here that Mr D later retracted some of this version and denied making payments, 
knowing about the loan or discussing the loan with K.
Mr D said that shortly after the loan was paid into his account, he received a message 
saying that it had been paid off (presumably from K). He was then contacted by K to tell him 
there was another problem and a further £20,000 was required. Mr Ds brother became 
involved and realised it was a scam. No further payments were made by Mr D. 
Mr D reported the scam to the authorities and approached Zopa about what had happened. 
He told them in some detail what had happened (as above), but this was later amended. Mr 
D told Zopa that he wasnt responsible for the loan. He argued that as he was only receiving 
a portion of his income at the time (due to restricted work availability), Zopa shouldnt have 
lent him the money in his first place. Mr D also explained to Zopa that he was suffering from 
ill health and the current situation had caused more stress to him.
Zopa looked into what had happened and later accepted they would have been unlikely to 
have given the loan if Mr Ds real income and expenses were known to them. They said 
theyd carried out sufficient checks at the time to satisfy themselves the loan was affordable. 
Zopa removed all the charges and interest from the loan but didnt write the loan off because 
Mr D was aware of it at the time and used the funds to purchase crypto currency. It was 
accepted that he was the victim of a scam, but the loan was utilised and should therefore be 
repaid.
After Mr Ds complaint was turned down by Zopa, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review of the circumstances. An investigator was assigned to 
look into the situation and evidence was sought from both parties. 
Mr D explained how hed been scammed into making payments to K as he genuinely 
believed he was investing in a legitimate crypto merchant. Mr D denied making any loan 
application and didnt think he should have to repay it. Mr D provided copies of messages 
hed had with K and other information about his finances.
Zopa provided details of the application and evidence supplied to them by Mr D at the time 
of their original investigation. After reviewing the evidence, the investigator accepted that Mr 
D had been the victim of a scam, but the evidence showed he knew about the loan and 
moved those funds to other accounts where it was eventually stolen by K. The investigator 
thought that Zopas response was reasonable in that theyd removed interest and charges 
from the loan and confirmed the outstanding debt wouldnt impact Mr Ds credit score. But 
Mr D would be required to repay the substantive loan amount (£20,000). Mr Ds complaint 
wasnt upheld.
Mr D strongly disagreed with the investigators outcome. He made numerous comments 
about the accuracy of the investigation and that no account had been taken of his physical 
and mental health. 
Mr D claimed that K had used the software hed earlier downloaded to move the funds from 
his account and set up the other accounts in his name with other financial merchants He 
further claimed that:
He was unaware of the finance company recommended by K until after the loan was 
paid into his account.
Zopa shouldnt have provided the loan if theyd carried out proper due diligence.
The calls he held with Zopa were at a time when he was confused, stressed and 
under pressure through trick questions by their employees.
Conversations held with the scammer (K) was conducted by a third party without Mr 
Ds knowledge.
Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Its apparent from reviewing the evidence supplied by both parties that Mr D was the victim 
of a cruel scam. The circumstances he described in one of his conversations with Zopa 
follows a fairly typical crypto currency scam. 
These scams often start with an advert on social media and the promise of huge returns with 
the victim usually investing a few hundred pounds which is what Mr D did here. There then 
follows access to a personal trading platform, designed solely to entice the victim to invest 
more funds. Thats also the case here with the promise of a special offer after Mr D saw his 
initial investment quadruple in value.
Mr D then borrowed £20,000 from a close family member. After that, the scammer (K) 
convinced Mr D that there was a problem which required another £20,000 to sort out. At the 
time Mr D didnt have those funds available, which are clear in the messages provided by Mr 
D to Zopa  although Mr D later said these were carried out by a third party after his phone 
was cloned.
Scams such as these often introduce some kind of problem to obtain more funds from the 
victim, here it was due to a supposed issue with the blockchain (part of the crypto network). 
Reviewing the messages, its fairly apparent that the conversations were between K and Mr 
D and not a fictional third party. 
Mr Ds whole case is that he was scammed after responding to the advert and downloading 
software to his phone. He told Zopa he had extensive messaging with K  and all these 
factors follow the typical pattern of such scams. Id question Mr Ds change of story here as it 
doesnt make sense to me that a scammer who somehow persuaded Mr D to download 
software would then need to invent a conversation with him. If they had full control of Mr Ds 
accounts (as hes suggested), they wouldnt need to invent a fictional conversation, theyd 
just use his details and control to take his money.
I think Mr Ds original story he gave Zopa is far more accurate than his later retraction and 
thats what Im basing my decision on. I understand Mr D was in a very difficult place taking 
into account the loss of his close family members £20,000 that he was trying to get back. 
The situation was further complicated by other personal/health issues he was dealing with at 
the time. Its clear to me he was scammed, but that he also played a part in the application 
for the loan and its eventual use when paid to other accounts set up through Ks instructions.
The messaging conversations clearly point to K persuading Mr D that he needed another 
£20,000 and Mr D had already ran out of family and friends to help him with more funds. He 
recounted to Zopa that he told K he couldnt get a loan because of his personal financial 
situation and was told by K to lie. He also said that he was told what wages to put on the 
application and helped by K (through the software embedded on his phone) how to complete 
the application for the loan.
Mr D said he didnt notice the loan agreement sent to his email address but was aware of it 
when it was paid into his bank account. He confirmed to Zopa that hed transferred the funds 
from his account to another account in his own name before purchasing crypto currency that was then no doubt stolen by K. The messages show that Mr D told K that hed made various 
payments from his account after the loan had been paid into it. 
In one conversation, K asked Mr D if hed paid 18 and Mr D says 16, Id already sent two 
lots of 2. Looking at his bank account, there are payments leaving the account following the 
payment of the loan of £2,000, £2,000 and then £16,000. I think this shows that Mr D was 
himself messaging K and that he was aware the loan had been applied for, knew that some 
of the details had been falsified and made payments himself to other accounts. Although I 
recognise these were under the direction of K.
I have thought about the confirmation by Zopa that they wouldnt have provided the loan if 
theyd seen Mr Ds payslips, but here, Mr D entered into an arrangement with K where he 
knew hed have to lie to get the loan. Its apparent that he himself didnt think he would be 
provided the loan as it was unaffordable but was persuaded by Ks promises to repay it 
immediately. Whilst Zopa could have done more here, they were relying, in part, on the 
information declared on the application form from the applicant. 
I dont think its unreasonable for them to make their assessment with the details from the 
application form, together with other credit checks which were carried out. As far as Im 
aware, no particular red flags appeared, and Mr D later told Zopa he hadnt borrowed other 
funds.
In conclusion, the evidence shows:
Mr D was aware of the loan application  which I think he probably completed 
himself, albeit under Ks guidance.
Once the loan had landed in his account, he made the payments himself to other 
accounts in his own name.
The funds were likely removed by K once they were converted to crypto currency.
I think its reasonable for Zopa to hold him liable for the substantive loan. I agree he 
shouldnt have to pay interest or charges associated with it and accept that Mr D will require 
Zopa to treat him appropriately (as Im sure they would anyway) and demonstrate 
appropriate forbearance when arranging repayment of the loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman