DRN-3618400
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Mortgage Advice Bureau Limiteds (MAB) service. Mr D feels that he 
was inadequately advised about his liabilities on the mortgage he took out with his late 
brother in-law. And MAB didnt adequately advise on the importance of having insurance 
protection policies in place.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In 2017, Mr D alongside his late brother in-law (Ill refer to as Mr F) took out a 
mortgage. 
In 2019, Mr D and Mr F re-mortgaged the property as the original two-year fixed rate 
was due to expire.
MAB say its standard practice for the mortgage advisor to confirm to both parties that 
they are jointly liable for the full amount of the mortgage and repayments. And this is 
confirmed in the paperwork provided by the lender.
MAB say in 2017 Mr D and Mr F didnt have time at the initial meeting to discuss the 
protection policies and it noted that they wanted to get their mortgage offer first and 
then discuss the protection policies. It says there is nothing on file to show that Mr D 
or Mr F made contact after they received the lenders offer.
In 2019, MAB rearranged the mortgage and arranged a further appointment for late 
October 2019 to discuss protection policies, but there is no record to show that 
meeting took place, or another date was organised. 
Sadly, in May 2020, Mr F died. This has left Mr D with the sole responsibility of 
meeting the mortgage repayments as there are no protection policies in place.
Mr D believes some evidence (e.g. disclaimers) may have been produced at a later 
date and documents were not sent.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt there was enough 
contemporaneous evidence from 2017 and 2019 that indicates that protection 
policies were discussed but further meetings to arrange them were not taken up by 
either Mr D or Mr F. 
Mr D requested the case be passed to an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mr D finds himself in after the death of his brother in-law.
 
However, I have to consider the evidence available to me, to decide if MAB made errors 
when it arranged the mortgage and from what Ive seen I dont think it has, Ill explain why.
I understand the main crux of Mr Ds complaint is about the lack of advice on the protection 
policies but for fullness I have also addressed Mr Ds point about not receiving advice on his 
liabilities of having a mortgage with Mr F.
I appreciate Mr D feels the implications of taking a mortgage out with his brother in-law 
wasnt explained to him. From the notes at the fact find meeting it appears Mr D and Mr F 
had already found a property that they wanted to buy together, and they then approached 
MAB for a mortgage. MAB would be expected to do the initial affordability checks and pass 
the information obtained to the lender. I wouldnt expect it to advise the parties if it was right 
for them to buy a property together and from what I can see they had no knowledge of the 
split of equity in the property. This is something Mr D and Mr F wouldve arranged with their 
conveyancer. The conveyancer would normally advise clients on the technical content of any 
of the conveyancing documents and their financial implications. In addition, the lender would 
have required Mr D to sign to confirm he understood the mortgage and agreed to proceed. 
So, I dont hold MAB responsible for this element of Mr Ds complaint. 
Looking at the meeting notes from 2017, I can see it was noted that the clients were short on 
time. It noted the customers were keen to ensure that they are approved for their mortgage 
first and will then book in a follow up appointment to discuss the insurances with me. They 
are aware that this needs to be done prior to exchange of contracts. 
A change of lender was arranged as requested by Mr D and Mr F. MAB has shown a new 
mortgage requirement document was produced with the protection advice disclaimer letters 
and mortgage illustration these are shown to be addressed to both Mr D and Mr Fs 
addresses. The document asks for the disclaimers to be signed and returned. It doesnt 
appear these were returned. I appreciate Mr D says this wasnt received. I cant be certain 
what was sent or received however, I note Mr D says Mr F had a copy of the mortgage 
illustration, so it appears that this mayve been received by Mr F. However, even if the 
documents were not received Im satisfied on balance that Mr D and Mr F were made aware 
at the fact find meeting of the availability and importance of the protection policies but didnt 
follow this up after their mortgage was agreed. I also note in the mortgage offer that it clearly 
states, Life Cover for the full amount of the Loan is strongly recommended on the life of 
each person named as Customer. I think it more likely than not that Mr D and Mr F intended 
to sort this out later but didnt get around to it and this is shown further in the 2019 meeting.
 
The notes from the 2019 meeting say: "A protection review appointment has been made for 
Monday 21 October at 17:00. Clients are keen to review this as they didn't take out any 
insurances last time." I can also see a protection review letter was generated on 2 October 
2019 and sent to Mr D and Mr F at the mortgaged address. This had attached a risk reality 
report which informs of the potential risk you take in not having protection. 
Neither party has explained why this meeting didnt go ahead or why it wasnt re-booked but 
I am satisfied that both Mr D and Mr F were aware that they didnt have protection and that 
MAB had highlighted the importance of having protection. 
Mr D feels that documents may have been produced at a later date and never sent, in 
particular the disclaimers and the latest risk protection recommendation issued in May 2020.But even if I was to believe these documents werent sent or received Im still persuaded 
there's enough evidence from 2017 and 2019 to indicate it's more likely than not that MAB 
satisfied its obligations with regards to making Mr D and Mr F aware of the importance of 
adequate protection insurances. So, I wont be asking MAB to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman