DRN-2016614
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Mortgage Business Plc didnt rectify his credit file to show the true 
status of his account. Mr D wants TMB to correct all financial information and credit 
information and provide him compensation.
What happened
Mr D went bankrupt in January 2013. At the time he had four buy to let mortgages with TMB. 
Mr D did a credit search in 2019 and discovered that on one account the default hadnt been 
registered in January 2013, but the account was still open in the summer of 2014 with a 
steadily increasing balance. TMB upheld Mr Ds complaint, said that it would request his 
credit file be amended and sent Mr D a cheque for £250 for his inconvenience. Mr D was 
dissatisfied with this because TMB hadnt looked at his other accounts. TMB replied to say 
that it had made an error by looking into one of Mr Ds other accounts and not the one he 
complained about and enclosed a further cheque for £100 for the inconvenience he 
experienced. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he 
felt that TMB had responded appropriately to Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagreed and 
requested a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D noticed that one of the accounts that he had with TMB was still showing as open for 
some time after his bankruptcy with increasing balances and he feels it should have been 
shown as settled as that time. TMB admitted its error and indeed a further error by looking 
into the wrong account. It said that it was contacting the credit reference agencies it provides 
information to so that the account information would show the default date as the date of Mr 
Ds bankruptcy with the account as partially settled. From my reading of the ICO guidance 
that appears to be how bankruptcy debts should be recorded. TMB tell us that they informed 
the credit reference agencies it uses of the amended credit information on the 29 November 
2019. Mr D uses a firm to obtain the credit information and it told him that the information 
has now been amended but the exact date of doing so is uncertain.
The evidence I have is that on receipt of Mr Ds complaint, TMB, after an initial error, sent 
information to credit reference agencies that would allow them to amend Mr Ds credit 
record. TMB doesnt publish the credit record and is only responsible for the information it 
provides so I cant hold it at fault for any unreasonable delay in publishing that information. 
But TMB had clearly made an error in the original information it provided, and Mr D is 
entitled to compensation. I have no evidence that Mr D suffered any financial loss as result 
of this. For several years Mr D would have had the bankruptcy registered on his account and 
its not clear to me that he was refused credit or that he suffered increased insurance 
premiums purely as a result of any error on the account as opposed to the bankruptcy. I 
certainly dont have any compelling evidence that such is the case and cant fairly make an 
award for financial loss. TMB has paid £350 for Mr Ds inconvenience. When we look at a 
complaint, we can award compensation for a consumers trouble and upset including 
inconvenience if a business hasnt already made an adequate offer of compensation. Mr D 
refers to the payments TMB has already made as only a gesture of goodwill, but its clearly 
stated by TMB that its for his inconvenience and is compensation for that. Having 
considered the complaint, I believe the £350 already paid by TMB is appropriate 
compensation for Mr Ds trouble and upset and on that basis, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman