DRN-2869465
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA blocked his account and delayed him
withdrawing his money. Hes also unhappy with the service he received from PayPal
throughout the period his account was blocked.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
28 May 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Background 
Mr Z received a payment into his account on 27 January 2020. Upon receipt of these funds
the account was blocked and PayPal asked Mr Z to provide identity documents. Mr Z did so
immediately.
PayPal emailed Mr Z on 29 January explaining that his account was to be closed because
hed opened it when he was under 18 years old and to continue using PayPal hed need to
open another account. The email said he could withdraw any money remaining in the
account. Mr Z attempted to withdraw his money that same day and was told it would take up
to 72 hours.
But the following day PayPal placed a further limitation on the account which is why the
payment didnt then debit within the 72 hours.
PayPal sent a further email on 30 January notifying Mr Z that it had placed a limitation on his
account and asked for ID documents and additional questions to be answered.
Mr Z sent an email on 30 January and 1 February asking for some clarity on the situation.
He also made several calls over the next week or so, managing to speak to advisors on a
couple of occasions. But the rest of the time there were long hold times. He requested
several call backs, but these didnt happen.
The first call took place on 1 February. PayPal dont have a copy of the call but Mr Z has
explained that during this call the advisor told him that PayPal had initially decided to close
his account but had changed its mind and so required further information. She told him that
an email had already been sent asking for the information, but Mr Z said he hadnt received 
it. When he told her this the advisor checked and confirmed there had been an error. She
told him it would be sent within 24 hours.
Mr Z made another call a few days later (it is unclear what day this was) as he hasnt heard
anything from PayPal following the call on 1 February. In this call he said he was told his
account was being looked into by the compliance department and hed hear from them
within 72 hours.
PayPal then sent a chaser email on 7 February asking Mr Z for the further information it had
originally requested on 30 January. Mr Z provided the information and PayPal then
unrestricted his account on 11 February and sent him a confirmation email that day.
Mr Z has explained how frustrating it was to try and get in touch with PayPal throughout the
two weeks his account was blocked. He said he needed the money to pay some builders
and, in the end, had to borrow the money from family members to pay them. He says PayPal
never logged his complaint despite several emails to it and verbal promises that this would
be done.
He therefore referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the
complaint. He said PayPal was entitled to block the account in line with its internal process
and this was to make sure it complied with its legal and regulatory obligations. He said he
was happy there werent any significant delays during the review process and whilst he
acknowledged the lack of call backs and queue wait times wouldve been frustrating, he
didnt think compensation was warranted on this occasion given the whole review process
was completed within two weeks.
Mr Z disagreed. He pointed out that hed been given various bits of incorrect information
about when hed hear from PayPal and it clearly hadnt followed its own internal processes.
He said that if hed just been told from the start it would take two weeks to complete the
review it wouldve saved him all the inconvenience of trying to contact PayPal. He feels for
this reason, and the fact PayPal never logged his complaint, that he deserves compensation.
Because Mr Z disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and
closed. If PayPal didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied PayPal was within its rights to block Mr Zs account and
payment and carry out a review. So, whilst I understand Mr Z needed access to his money, I
dont think PayPal did anything wrong in this respect.
However, I do think there were some service failings on PayPals part during the period the
account was under review.
As Ive explained above, Mr Zs account was initially placed under review on 27 January
2020. Whilst this review was completed on 29 January, PayPal then placed a further 
restriction on the account on 30 January and needed more information before it would
unblock the account and release Mr Zs payment.
I think the subsequent confusion has arisen because of the second restriction being placed.
To Mr Z it looked like he was getting contradictory emails, as in his mind hed already
provided his ID documents. So, hed received an email on 29 January saying he could no
longer use his account, but by the following day, had received another email  after the
second restriction had been placed  telling him account was now restricted and asking him
to provide more ID documentation. I should point out that both emails were correct at the
time of sending, so PayPal didnt make an error here.
Although Mr Z told the advisor on the 1 February call that he hasnt received an email asking
for further information, having seen a copy, Im satisfied this was sent. And I think its likelyhe did receive this given his comments in his email to PayPal on 30 January where he said
However, since then I have been receiving various emails with differing messages. Some of
them have said my account is no longer valid while others have said the account has
limitations on it. So it seems he had got the email earlier that day notifying him of the new
limitation and asking him for more information. But as Ive said, because Mr Z had already
provided his ID documents in the days prior and been told his account was closed, this was
understandably confusing. So I dont think PayPal or Mr Z were really at fault at this point.
The email on 30 January was in relation to the second restriction and needed actioning
independently from the first ID documents Mr Z had sent. Not just because PayPal wasnt
completely happy with the original documents provided, but because it had asked Mr Z some
additional questions too.
Whilst I dont hold PayPal responsible for the confusion at this stage, it seems the telephone
call Mr Z had with PayPal on 1 February did cause confusion and PayPal missed the
opportunity to clear up the situation and progress things more quickly.
Whilst PayPal cant provide the call, Mr Zs email of 1 February gives a detailed description
of what was discussed and I have no reason to doubt his version of events. It seems the
advisor wasnt clear and did give unrealistic timescales. As explained, the advisor told Mr Z
that hed already been sent a request for information, but when Mr Z said he hadnt received
this, she told him there had been an error and shed ensure it was sent within 24 hours. This
was incorrect information as the email on 30 January had been sent. 
I think the advisor couldve done more at this point, at the very least given the correct details
around the email of 30 January. Had she done so Mr Z couldve taken steps to find and
action the email. And if not that, ensured the email was resent within a timely manner or
given a more realistic timeframe for when this would be done. As it was it took six days for
PayPal to send a chaser email (rather than the 24 hours stated by the advisor) and Mr Z,
because of the timeframe the advisor had given him, spent time and energy trying to contact
PayPal in the intervening days to chase this up. He was kept on hold for hours and promised
numerous call backs. All this wouldnt have been necessary  and his frustration couldve
been avoided and perhaps a few days shaved off the review time  had PayPal provided a
clearer and better service at this point. I also note that Mr Z had logged a complaint in his
email on 1 February and he says he was told verbally on several occasions a complaint
would be logged, but PayPal never logged this or responded to his complaint at any point.
Again, this was extremely frustrating to Mr Z and an error on PayPals part.
So, whilst I dont believe PayPal made an error in restricting Mr Zs account and asking for
the information it did, I think it caused Mr Z unnecessary stress and frustration through the
service it provided and couldve ensured the review was completed slightly more quickly
than it was. As a result, I believe it should pay him £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr Z responded to my provisional decision clarifying a point in relation to the facts of what 
had happened. He explained that he had received the email on 30 January explaining his 
account had been restricted and he needed to log into the Resolution Centre to answer 
some questions. However, the issue arose when he logged into the Resolution Centre and 
there were no further details. He says the advisor he spoke to on the 1 February was 
therefore correct when she told him there had been some kind of mistake. 
Mr Z pointed out again the false promises and timescales he was given by PayPal 
throughout the two weeks his account was blocked and the lack of clear information he 
received on what was happening with his account. 
PayPal responded to my provisional decision attaching a past final decision that had been 
issued. This decision was in relation to this services ability to consider complaint handling under our jurisdiction. However, PayPal didnt provide any supporting commentary around 
this final decision. 
I contacted PayPal to update it on the amended facts of the complaint and address its 
response to my provisional decision. I explained that I wouldnt ordinarily refer to previous
decisions issued by other ombudsman, as each case is considered on its own merits. But for
clarity, I explained Im upholding Mr Zs complaint for issues relating to the customer service 
PayPal gave him during the period his account was blocked (therefore in relation to a 
regulated activity) - thus not related to complaint handling at all. I let it know that I explained 
why I think the service fell short in my provisional decision. The only reference I made to the 
handling of the actual complaint was in relation to PayPal not issuing a final response. 
Therefore, Im happy all aspects of Mr Z complaint are within our jurisdiction. PayPal 
responded to this saying it has nothing more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I originally believed the adviser on 1 February had made an error in telling Mr Z the email on 
30 January hadn't been sent and not then clarifying this so he could action the email. 
Therefore, causing all the subsequent trouble and upset Mr Z faced. But now it seems the 
actual error was with the Resolution Centre and instead, although the adviser was correct 
about the mistake, she should've ensured this was rectified in a timely manner or at least 
given more realistic timescales so Mr Z didn't waste time having to chase PayPal between 
this phone call and the 7 February when PayPal sent the correct communication. 
As it was, the adviser he spoke with on 1 February promised he would receive further 
communication within 24 hours, and this didn't happen. He then chased this and was told 
he'd hear in 72 hours, again, this didn't happen. And when he finally did receive the correct 
communication on 7 February, he was told again he would hear within 72 hours and again 
this didn't happen. 
I don't believe the clarification Mr Z has provided around the facts of what happened 
changes my recommendation. Regardless of the type of error on PayPal's part, I've already 
concluded it should've done more to rectify and clarify the situation on 1 February and I still 
think this. And had it done so, all the subsequent trouble and upset Mr Z faced could've been 
avoided. 
So regardless, I'm still satisfied PayPal caused Mr Z unnecessary frustration and
inconvenience in all the calls he had to make and time wasted in chasing this matter up. And 
as explained in my provisional decision it also caused a short delay in the process - I just 
now think this was down to the mistake with the Resolution Centre, rather than solely the 
lack of clear information given by the adviser on 1 February. Therefore, my final decision will 
still be a recommendation of £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Zs complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
and direct it to pay him £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman