DRN-4019076
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited added an exclusion to his annual travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M disclosed, that he had had cancer and treatment in 2020 and surgery for a recurrence 
in February 2022. In answer to a question asked by Aviva in October 2022, he confirmed 
had had cancer within the last 12 months and was advised to have chemotherapy as part of 
his treatment. Aviva excluded the condition from cover. Mr M complained.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She didnt find that Aviva 
had done anything wrong. Mr M appealed. He felt that his cancer had been cured and was 
therefore no longer an illness. He also didnt feel that Aviva had differentiated between 
intravenous and oral chemotherapy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusions reasons by the investigator for these reasons:
I do understand the points Mr M makes regarding his cancer diagnosis and 
treatment. However insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will or will not take 
 this is a matter of commercial judgement with which this service cant interfere.
Mr Ms policy explains any illness a policyholder has had in the 12 months before the 
trip, where there has been a follow up with a specialist, will not be covered.
Mr M believes it is unreasonable to exclude cover for five years, which is the period 
of time he believes he will be under normal NHS surveillance. But Aviva explained 
there may be time when it no longer needs to be informed about Mr Ms cancer. This 
would be when he had gone 12 months without: 
Being prescribed medication; and /or
Receiving, or being on a waiting list for, medical treatment, tests or investigations; 
and/or
Being admitted to hospital or had surgery.
This accords with the definition of medical condition set out in Mr M policy.
Im satisfied that Aviva has applied its underwriting guidelines fairly and has treated 
Mr M as it would any other policyholder with his circumstances.
I dont find that Aviva have treated Mr M unfairly, unreasonably or contrary to the 
terms of his policy by applying the exclusion that it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman