DRN-1712044
The complaint
Mr G complains about the level of service received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited ("LV") following a claim made under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr G was towing a boat out of his driveway. But he said another party had 
parked on his land which he said had made it difficult for him to safely exit his driveway
safely.
Mr G said he had asked the other party to move their vehicle, but the other party didnt. And 
so Mr G said he had to manoeuvre on rough terrain which caused the boat to detach from 
his vehicle and roll into the other drivers vehicle, causing some damage to it.
Mr G reported the incident to LV later in June 2018. LV said that, because the boat caused 
the damage to the other partys vehicle, the other partys insurer would need to recover its 
losses from the insurer of the boat. Mr G said LV confirmed the matter was closed and a 
claim wasnt recorded on his motor insurance policy.
Mr G was later contacted by LV in May 2019. LV said it accepted the other partys claim from 
June 2018 in full and a fault claim would be registered against Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy LV had taken the decision to reopen the claim after a long period of time 
had passed. He also disagreed that he was at fault. He said the other party had parked on 
his land and had made it difficult for him to pass. Mr G also maintained that the boat insurer 
should be liable for the other partys losses, as the boat caused the damage and not his 
vehicle. Mr G also said he didnt think LV ever contacted the insurer of the boat.
Mr G said that because of the fault claim being recorded, his premium was increased 
midway through the policy year. He said this affected both his vehicle and motorbike policies 
with LV. So he raised a complaint about the level of service received from LV.
LV didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that it had a reached a fair decision on liability and
Mr Gs premium was increased as a result of the fault claim. As Mr G remained unhappy, he 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into everything, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
She said the policy entitled LV to accept liability in full on behalf of Mr G. She also looked at 
the premium increase and felt that LV had applied its underwriting criteria fairly.
Our investigator also said LV had waived the cancellation fees on both policies Mr G 
requested to cancel. So she was of the opinion that LV didnt need to do anything else. But
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. He maintained his opinion that LV hadnt acted in his 
best interests by deciding to accept full liability for the accident on his behalf. He also said it 
wasnt fair for LV to reopen the claim in any event given he was told it was closed previously 
by LV.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2020 and my findings are set out below. My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold this
complaint in part.
To keep thing simple, Ive set my decision out using the sub-headings below.
Whether LV acted fair and reasonably when considering the claim liability decision 
Mr G was told in 2018 that the claim had been closed and wouldnt affect his policy. He later
received further communication in 2019 that said it had now accepted liability for the claim in 
full and it would be recorded as a fault claim against him. I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating, particularly given Mr G disputes being at fault for the accident. It then changed 
when the other drivers insurer wrote to LV to explain theyd received contact from the boat 
insurer to say it wasnt liable and that liability would fall with Mr Gs car insurer.
Mr G has disputed that anyone contacted the boat insurer during this time. But Im satisfied
the other drivers insurer did because Ive seen correspondence sent from it to the boat
insurer, attempting to claim from it. However, the other drivers insurer said the claim wasnt
covered under this policy as the boat was in transit. Therefore, the other drivers insurer
contacted LV to clarify this. LV assessed whether it was liable for the claim under the terms
of the policy and it ultimately thought it was as it said the damage occurred as a result of it
being towed by the car. So it said the terms of the policy required it to settle the claim. And
LV thought that Mr G would be found at fault for the damage.
I must now explain that we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can
look at whether an insurer has properly investigated a claim, as above. And we can see if it
has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr Gs policy has a term which is common in most motor insurance policies Ive seen, which
says were entitled to have total control to conduct, defend or settle any claim.
This means that the policy entitles LV to decide whether it should defend or settle claim,
even if Mr G disagrees with this. But it must exercise this right in a fair and reasonable way.
Ive taken all of Mr Gs comments into account. But Im not in agreement with him that LV
has acted unfairly by applying the above policy term or failed to carry out a fair investigation.
LV has considered Mr G was at fault for the accident because the other drivers car was
stationary at the time of impact. It said the boat, whilst in transit, became detached whilst
Mr G was trying to move around the other drivers car. And, whilst the other driver may have
been parked in an awkward place, it said it was the responsibility of Mr G to ensure it was
safe to pass.
Mr G said that he had asked the other driver to move their car to enable him to safely exit his 
driveway, but they refused. He also made the point that the other driver had parked on
private land without permission. And he disagreed that a judge would agree that LV came to
the correct decision on liability based on the information he provided to them.
Its helpful to explain here that in order for the claim not to be treated as a fault claim on
Mr Gs record; LV would need to show that the other driver is fully responsible for the loss or
damage. LV said that it couldnt hold the other driver responsible for the accident, as it was
Mr Gs responsibility to ensure he could pass the other driver safely. It was unfortunate theboat detached during transit due to Mr G driving over rough terrain, but LV said the loss
occurred as a result of it not being safe for Mr G to pass the other drivers car.
LV said it didnt think that defending the claim had reasonable prospects of success in court,
and so it took the decision to settle the other drivers claim in full. I appreciate Mr G
disagrees here, but based on the information available to me, I dont think LV has applied
the above term unfairly here as Im satisfied that its considered all the evidence before
coming to the conclusion it has.
Mr G argued that the other drivers insurer should have recovered its outlay from the insurer
of the boat. As above, I have seen the correspondence on file between the other drivers
insurer and the insurer of the boat. LV said that the boat insurance doesnt cover loss or
damage when the boat is being moved whilst in transit. Therefore, as the boat caused
damage whilst in transit, LV has accepted the claim and accepted liability on behalf of Mr G
in full. I cant say that its acted unfairly in this respect.
To summarise, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mr G, Im not persuaded LV failed to
carry out a fair investigation. So I dont think LV has acted unfairly here. And so I wont be
asking it to do anything else here.
Whether LV acted fairly by increasing Mr Gs premium mid-term
Mr G also complained that, due to this claim, the premiums on his car and motorbike 
insurance policies went up. I understand and appreciated why this would have frustrated
Mr G  again particularly given he was informed in 2018 that the matter had been closed and 
hadnt affected his policy at that time.
I must explain that I wont be considering the complaint about Mr Gs motorbike insurance
policy in this decision because thats a separate policy.
Ive considered this, and I dont think its fair that LV tried to backdate Mr Gs premium to his
renewal. I will explain why.
Mr G was told in 2018 that the incident hed reported wouldnt be recorded on his car
insurance policy as a claim. Mr G was given this information and subsequently at renewal,
had the responsibility to provide accurate information to the questions he was asked. As hed 
been told that no claim would be recorded against his car insurance policy, I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Mr G declared there werent any claims made. So I dont think he 
failed to take reasonable care to not misrepresent. So it follows that I dont think there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation here. So Im currently minded to agree with Mr G here that LV 
acted unfairly by backdating the premium at renewal.
Ive looked at the impact of this. I understand that Mr G didnt agree to pay the additional
premium in any event. So he felt he was left with no option but to cancel the insurance policy 
and decided to take out insurance with a different provider. I appreciate Mr Gs feelings 
around this that he felt forced into cancelling his insurance by LV due to the increase in 
premiums that were backdated. But I can also see LV waived the cancellation fee.
Mr G said that he experienced a level of distress and inconvenience as a result of LV
backdating his premium, which Im currently minded to say was unfair for it to do. Mr G said
he had to spend a lengthy period of time on the phone to LV and felt as though he had to
cancel his policy as a result. This also meant Mr G didnt complete a full years policy and so 
he would have lost the no claims bonus he would have built up for that year  but I also note 
he had his no claims bonus protected.In summary, whilst Mr G didnt agree to pay the additional premium, I am minded to say he 
would have experienced a level of distress and inconvenience due to the amount of time 
spent on the phone to LV, changing his provider and missing out on the full years no claims 
bonus. And because of that, Im currently minded to require LV to pay Mr G £100 to 
recognise the level of distress and inconvenience this caused him.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons set out above, subject to either party providing more information, I intend to 
uphold this complaint in part, and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and LV didn't respond to my provisional decision in the timeframe given, and so our 
investigator contacted both parties to find out if they wished to provide any further 
information. Both Mr G and LV said they agreed with my provisional findings and didn't wish 
to provide any further information. 
Therefore, I remain that this complaint should be upheld in part based on the reasons set out 
within my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman