DRN-3368958
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, applied a default to his 
personal credit file incorrectly. Mr T wans Shelby to remove it. 
What happened
From the records we have from Shelby, Mr T seems to have entered into a loan agreement 
with it for £500 in June 2020 with interest to pay on top of just under £329. As we have not 
seen the original agreement I do not know what the loan term was or whether these details 
are accurate. But the complaint is about the default and not the loan terms. The scheduled 
repayments looked to have been around £138 a month. These monthly instalments were 
paid until 5 February 2021, following which, from 19 February 2021 Mr T started to pay £15 
a week. 
Shelbys notes indicate that on 24 August 2021 a payment failed. As Mr T had been paying 
around £60 a month rather than the £138 a month originally then it does look like Mr T was 
in arrears. Shelby has told us and sent records to show that Mr T had received a Notice of 
Default on 24 August 2021 and given a remediation date of 3 September 2021. The arrears 
at that time were £438.90. The reason for the failure, Mr T told Shelby, was that it related to 
a problem with his card. This repayment plan was reinstated at £15 a week and the records 
show that these recommenced on 27 August 2021.
Shelby has told us that Mr T was warned of the consequences of the payment plan failing, 
one being that the default would be applied. 
No payment was received by Shelby on the weekly due date of 29 October 2021. The 
payment the week before had been received on 22 October 2021. The £15 payments 
recommended on 3 December 2021.
Shelbys records in relation to October 2021 are different to the August 2021 failure, in that it 
tells me that the reason for the non-payment was a notification from the bank Do not honour 
which suggests lack of funds. But that may not be the only reason for the banks decline of 
the payment method. I have no details. Default reporting was carried out by Shelby on 
30 October 2021, and a NOT which I interpret to mean a Notice of Termination was issued 
on 30 October 2021 - the NOT crystallised balance was £288.90.  
Shelbys notes indicate that Mr T telephoned it on 25 November 2021 and there does not 
appear to have been any contact between 29 October 2021 and 25 November 2021. Mr T 
had told it that he had been off work for three weeks and had received SSP which seems to 
relate to Statutory Sick Pay. We have received no evidence of this. 
On 26 November 2021 Mr T was in contact with Shelby and he was asking Shelby to reset 
the payment plan and the telephone note suggests that Mr T had not received his default 
statement. Mr T mentions being in hospital with Covid and he wanted the default removed. 
Other reasons for upset and medical issues were given mainly relating to a mental health 
issue. 
Mr T raised his complaint with Shelby in November 2021. 
On 26 November 2021 another payment plan at £15 a week was set up. The first payment 
was set to commence on 3 December 2021. 
On 30 November 2021 Mr T spoke to Shelby again and his complaint can be condensed to 
this one line  he only missed one payment and the same week he was issued with a 
default, and the reason for the missed payment was that he was in hospital. 
Mr T has told us that he was unable to contact Shelby and the reason the payment did not 
go through was that as he was off work, the nature of his work was such that if he did not 
work he did not get paid. Mr T has sent us evidence of the following:
oa doctors Statement of Fitness for Work for social security or Statutory Sick Pay 
(SSP) dated 9 November 2021 and the sign off period was 29 October 2021 to 
12 November 2021. 
oa prescription dated 30 October 2021 for some medication issued by the local 
hospital Accident and Emergency department which was unrelated to Covid  it was 
for a different ailment more aligned with his mental health issues
osome written notes of a recovery plan  undated and no names appear there
oa list of crisis telephone numbers and helplines for the local area 
oan undated, and unnamed Safety Plan leaflet
I am sorry to learn that Mr T has been unwell and the reasons for it.
Shelbys succinct summary is: We have correctly issued the customer a default on his 
account as the payment arrangement broke on 30/10/2021. We appreciate the customer is 
struggling and had time off work but had the opportunity to contact us 
Shelby issued Mr T with its final response letter dated 9 December 2021 in which it said that 
in August 2021 Mr T had been issued with his Default Notice, while your payment 
arrangement was in place, the default would not be applied to your account. However, if the 
payment arrangement were to break the default would be applied to your account.
Shelby told us in December 2021 that the up to date position was the account with Mr T was 
open with a balance of £243.90. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the evidence sent to us by both Shelby and Mr T, and both were aware 
that the matter was being passed to me. Mr T said he may send in additional evidence 
relating to payslips but he did not. We have received no other medical evidence. 
There was a loan agreement between the parties and it looks to me that Mr T had arranged 
a payment plan with Shelby twice before  February 2021 and August 2021. 
Mr T had received a Notice of Default in August 2021 and although I have not seen that 
notice, my understanding is that in August 2021 when the repayment plan was reinstated, 
Mr T was warned of the consequences.Good general practice utilised by lenders is a published guide entitled: Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies  which 
includes a foreword by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). That foreword explains: 
The principles in this document have been drawn up by the credit industry in 
collaboration with the ICO. The ICO will continue to work with the industry to ensure 
that these principles remain up to date and that the privacy rights of individuals are 
respected.
Within the guidelines for Principle 3 is this: 
If your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the 
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in 
arrears on the original agreement.
And Principle 4 is: 
If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken 
down. 
Principle 4 includes these guidelines: 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
Although I note that Mr T does appear to have been unwell, and I note that the medication 
prescribed on 30 October 2021 was issued by an A&E department of a hospital, I do not 
have evidence of Mr T being incapacitated in a hospital due to Covid. And I am very sorry to 
hear that. What I need to be clear on for Mr T to understand is that whichsoever ailment led 
him to being in hospital I am aware that the payments for the Shelby loan were taken from 
his account automatically. And so, I see no reason for the £15 to fail because he was in 
hospital. 
Mr Ts explanation seems to be that it failed because he was in hospital and he could not 
contact Shelby but I dont think that would have made a difference. 
Mr T has also said that if he does not work then he does not get paid  and I understand that 
but there are two things which lead me to think that this would not likely have affected his 
bank account on 29 October 2021 such that the £15 payment failed. 
The first is that Mr Ts sign off from work document shows that the period during which he 
was not able to work was from 29 October 2021 which, by coincidence, was the day that the 
£15 was due. So, I doubt that Mr Ts period of not working had  on that same date  
translated into lack of money into his account. I think that there may have been other 
reasons for the lack of money in the account. 
And the second reason is that Mr T has said he was in receipt of SSP and if that was the 
case then its likely that he could still repay the £15. Although I doubt that the SSP payments 
would have affected his payslip so quickly. And no evidence about Mr Ts pay has been sent 
to us. I have not received any copies of Mr Ts bank statements or other details of his personal 
finances at the time and so I am unable to know why his account balance was so low that 
the automatic payment for Shelby did not go through. But on current evidence I do not think 
it related to lack of salary due to illness and it appears that the sign off period by the doctor 
(issued in November 2021) was from 29 October 2021. 
Mr T set up his complaint at the Financial Ombudsman Service by telephone and I have 
listened to those recorded calls. In one of them he  mentioned that he had put £700 as a 
deposit on a house  its unclear whether this was a rental or a house to buy. Mr T has 
referred to a mortgage but nothing has been sent to us about a mortgage. But the 
explanation does suggest hed paid that £700 around the time the default was done as he 
seemed to be concerned it would affect the house transaction. So, it suggests to me that 
Mr T was able to afford that £700. 
I am satisfied that Mr T was more than three months in arrears on the loan agreement dated 
June 2020, and whether the repayment plan of February 2021 or August 2021 is the one 
I focus on, still I can see that a default notice was issued in August 2021 and the payment 
plan arrangement was broken again in October 2021. If Shelby considered that this latest 
payment failure meant that the relationship had broken down then I do not consider it was 
incorrect applying the default when it did. 
In all the circumstances I do think that Mr T was in arrears with Shelby, he had been on an 
arranged payment plan since February 2021 and certainly since August 2021, and the failed 
payment on 29 October 2021 meant that Shelby applied a default. Its view that the 
relationship had broken down appears to have been justified and so I think that the default 
application was fair and reasonable and it stands. 
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman