DRN-1659261
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled a successful claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr C had some windows and a door fitted to his property for which he paid £5,500 using his 
Tesco credit card. A short while later, he found a number of issues with the windows and the 
door and tried to call the supplier. Unfortunately, theyd gone out of business, so Mr C made 
a claim to Tesco. 
Tesco looked into Mr Cs claim and asked him to provide an independent inspection report 
and a quote for replacements. Once they were supplied, Tesco agreed with him that the 
windows and door were of unsatisfactory quality. They agreed to pay for the replacement 
windows and door  the sum of £5,739  and £60 for the inspection report (a total of 
£5,799). A condition of this offer was that Mr C should provide evidence that he had paid to 
have the work carried out. 
Mr C initially accepted Tescos offer, but later said hed decided not to proceed with the 
replacements. He asked if Tesco would simply pay him the money so that he could repay his 
mother whod paid for part of the installation work. Tesco refused to do so, saying that the 
offer was made on the basis that Mr C could get new windows and a door properly fitted. 
They were not prepared to simply pay him the money.  
Mr C was unhappy with this so referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it and agreed with Tescos stance. She didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C rejected our investigators opinion and provided several videos as evidence of the poor 
quality and installation of the windows and door which show water entering his property. He 
said hed just finished redecorating the interiors and didnt want the mess or risk of damage 
that replacing the windows could cause. He asked for the complaint to be reconsidered, so 
its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Im satisfied the required 
circumstances for Mr C to make a claim are present here.
My role isnt to say whether Mr C has a valid claim under section 75 as that is for a court
to decide. In any event, Tesco have agreed theres been a breach of contract by the supplier 
and that they have a liability to Mr C. But section 75 doesnt go into detail about how a claim 
should be settled simply that a claim may be brought against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
So, Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its agreed that the windows and door Mr C bought are not of satisfactory quality and were 
poorly fitted. In other words, theres been a breach of contract between Mr C and supplier. In 
line with their liability under section 75, Tesco have offered to replace the goods to put right 
the breach of contract. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But Mr C has said he doesnt want the windows and door replaced and instead wants Tesco 
to pay him the money. Instead he wants to repay his mother and avoid the disruption 
replacing the windows and door may cause. Hes said he may get them replaced in a few 
years. 
While I understand and respect Mr Cs wishes, I dont think Tesco have been unreasonable 
in saying the refund should be used to pay for replacement windows and door now. If the 
supplier had still been in business when Mr C noticed the problems, Id have expected them 
to repair or replace the windows and door. I wouldnt have expected them to refund him the 
money and leave the unsatisfactory windows and door in place. I say this because the 
contract was to supply properly fitted and satisfactory windows and door  and Id expect 
that to be fulfilled.
Tesco have offered to remedy the breach of contract in line with their obligations under 
section 75. I dont think its reasonable to ask them simply to give Mr C the money to do with 
as he wishes, because that wont put right the breach of contract  hed still have 
unsatisfactory windows and door. He has however demonstrated that he paid £60 for the 
inspection, and Tesco have paid him separately for that. I dont think however, Tesco has 
any obligation to pay Mr C for the windows and door until he has new ones installed, or he 
asks Tesco to pay the new supplier directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman