DRN-2969439
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited trading as Bestinvest 
(Bestinvest) unfairly, and without telling him, increased the administrative charges they 
applied to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr M transferred his SIPP to Bestinvest in September 2017. He said that at the time, they 
were charging a 0.3% fee each month, which he considered to be very low. 
Mr M said that when he logged in on 2020 he noticed that Bestinvest had introduced a new 
quarterly administration fee on 28 February 2019. He said they were now taking a quarterly 
fee of £30 (£25 plus VAT) from his SIPP. 
Mr M asked Bestinvest to explain what had happened. He said he hadnt agreed to the new 
fee, and he hadnt been informed about it in writing. He said Bestinvest told him that theyd 
emailed him to tell him about the new quarterly fee. He also said that they agreed to waive 
the fee to transfer his SIPP to a new provider. 
Mr M said he didnt receive the email about the new quarterly fee. He said it had gone to his 
spam folder. He didnt consider that Bestinvest had acted fairly when theyd sent a mass 
email to tell him about the changes, as he felt it was likely that such emails would be marked 
as spam. He said that his new SIPP provider had a different operating model, where they 
sent important communications by email and letter. 
Mr M also said he incurred additional costs as he had to sell all his holdings before he could 
transfer out. He said this cost him £135 in further fees. Therefore he didnt consider that the 
transfer out had been free, despite Bestinvests offer to waive the transfer fees to a new 
provider.  
Mr M complained to Bestinvest. He wanted them to refund the quarterly fees theyd taken 
from his SIPP, and the additional costs hed incurred before transferring out. 
Bestinvest said that their Terms of Business advised that they email notices and information 
about the services they provide to their customers. They said this included notices of 
changes to those Terms. They said they couldnt be held liable if their email had gone into a 
spam folder. They said that as theyd followed their Terms of Business they wouldnt 
authorise a refund of the quarterly charges. They said they would waive all SIPP exit fees if 
Mr M wanted to transfer out. 
Mr M didnt think Bestinvest had treated him fairly. He said he appreciated that the transfer 
out fee would be waived. But asked them if they would also waive the charges he would 
incur for selling all his holdings before the transfer out. Bestinvest said they were unable to 
waive the sale charges.
Bestinvest sent their final response to the complaint on 15 September 2020. They didnt 
uphold it. They said theyd informed Mr M about the new quarterly charge in an email dated 
8 October 2018, which theyd sent to his recorded email address. They said the method of 
notification was in line with their Terms of Business. They said they were entitled under their 
Terms of Business to apply dealing charges for selling holdings to cash.
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
felt that Bestinvest had acted fairly and in line with their Terms of Business. She said that the 
introduction of the quarterly SIPP administration charge was a commercial decision that 
Bestinvest had been entitled to make. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Bestinvest were 
entitled to make a commercial decision to change to a quarterly administration fee. And Im 
satisfied Bestinvest acted in line with their Terms of Business when they told Mr M about the 
change by email. I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr M. Ill explain the reasons for 
my decision. 
Mr Ms position is that Bestinvest should not be able to rely on sending important 
communications to their customers by email. In particular, he said that bulk emails may be 
considered to be spam. He also notes that his new SIPP provider communicates with him by 
both letter and email. He feels that as he wasnt fairly notified of the new quarterly charge, it 
should be refunded to him. He also considers that he shouldnt have to pay dealing charges 
for selling his holdings to cash so that he could transfer his SIPP to a new provider.
Bestinvests position is that they have followed their Terms of Business at all times. They 
said they provide an online service where they communicate with their clients by email. And 
that their clients should adjust their settings so that any emails sent by Bestinvest arrive in 
their inbox. They said they are entitled to change their charging basis with appropriate 
notification to customers. And that they are also entitled to charge for dealing costs under 
their Terms of Business.
When Mr M moved his SIPP to Bestinvest, he agreed to be subject to the Terms of 
Business. Ive carefully considered these terms and what both parties have said.
I first looked at how Bestinvest agreed to communicate with Mr M. The Terms of Business 
cover this under section 6. These state:
6.1 We may communicate with each other in writing, including by email or via our website or 
by telephone. And:
6.5 The Bestinvest Online Investment Service is designed to be a paperless service. This 
means that we will normally communicate with you, including providing you with information 
about your Bestinvest Online Investment Service Account, via our website. We will also 
communicate with you via email. We will not send sensitive information to you via email.
Section 18.7.5 also states:
18.7.5. You are required to maintain a live email address for receipt of ongoing 
communications.From what Ive seen, the Terms of Business allow Bestinvest to communicate a change to 
the charging structure by email. 
Bestinvest have provided a copy of the email they sent to Mr Ms email address on 8 
October 2018, to alert him to the charging change. This explained that Bestinvest planned to 
introduce a quarterly administration fee of £25 plus VAT: to cover the administrative costs 
associated with holding a pension while retaining our existing ongoing servicing fee. From 
what Ive seen, the email gave the appropriate notice for the change under the Terms of 
Business.
I acknowledge that Mr M didnt receive this email, as it arrived in his spam folder. However, 
this evidences that Bestinvest did in fact use the correct email address for the notification. 
And the Terms of Business also included the following statement: 
33.5. In proving service or delivery of the relevant communication, it shall be sufficient for us 
to prove that it was correctly addressed to the last address notified in writing by you to us,
Its unfortunate that Mr M didnt receive this email, but I cant hold Bestinvest responsible for 
that. I say this because the Terms of Business allowed them to send information of this type 
to their customers by email, and they used the correct address. And Im satisfied that Mr M 
had provided a live email address, which Bestinvest correctly used for the charging change 
email. Therefore Ive no evidence that Bestinvest did anything wrong when they sent this 
notification to Mr M by email. 
I do acknowledge that Mr M had a relatively small fund in his SIPP, therefore the new 
administration charge was relatively high. But I cant say that Bestinvest applied the 
administration charge unfairly to Mr Ms account. The same administration service was 
provided for smaller funds as for larger ones. And the Terms of Business allowed Bestinvest 
to change the fees. They stated:
23.6. We may vary any fees, commissions or interest rates on the basis provided in clause 
29, and any changes will be advised to you accordingly.
I consider it fair for Bestinvest to charge each customer the same administration fee, 
regardless of the size of funds held. In any case, Im unable to criticise Bestinvest on the 
introduction of the quarterly administration fee, as they took a commercial decision to 
introduce it. And they are entitled to make such commercial decisions. This service cannot 
regulate the commercial decisions made by businesses.
Ill now consider Bestinvests offer to waive transfer out fees and whether they acted 
reasonably when they still charged Mr M dealing fees before he could transfer out. 
Bestinvest told Mr M that when they introduced the quarterly administration charge, they 
removed their transfer out fees. But they confirmed that their Terms of Business stated that 
there would be a dealing charge for sales, even if that was so that a transfer to another 
provider could be carried out. They said that if Mr M had arranged an in-specie transfer, no 
sales wouldve been required and no dealing charges wouldve been applied.
Mr M felt it was unfair that he was effectively being charged to transfer out. 
While I understand why Mr M feels this way, I cant fairly agree. I consider that the Terms of 
Business do fairly allow Bestinvest to charge dealing fees, even where the sales are in 
respect of a transfer out. 
Ive found no evidence that Bestinvest did anything wrong. Therefore I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman