DRN-1457257
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc gave him a credit card which it should have 
known was unaffordable for him and then wrongly defaulted his account when he couldnt 
pay back what he had borrowed.
What happened
Mr C applied for a Capital One credit card in August 2014. He told the business that he was 
employed as a manager earning £20,800 per year. Capital One accepted Mr Cs application 
and his credit limit was £200.
Mr C fell into difficulties making his repayments and payments were missed in January 2015 
and onwards. In August 2015 Capital One defaulted the account and it was passed to a debt 
collection agency. In June 2019 Mr C complained to Capital One that he should never have 
been given the card as he was unemployed and had no income at the time. Capital One 
didnt accept Mr Cs complaint and so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Although Mr C 
said he wasnt working, this isnt what he told Capital One and the credit checks carried out 
by the business didnt suggest that Mr C was struggling. Our investigator didnt think that 
Capital One had made a mistake in giving Mr C the credit. Our investigator looked at the 
repayment history and thought that Capital One had been fair in trying to resolve the 
financial difficulties and had defaulted the account in line with the relevant industry guidance.
Mr C didnt agree and replied to say that he wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the paperwork from the time that Mr C opened his account. I can see that 
he told Capital One that he was employed as a manager and earning £20,800 per year. He 
stated that he was living with his parents.
Capital One carried out credit checks and discovered that Mr C had only two other open 
credit accounts which had been well maintained. There was no evidence of defaults or 
CCJs or any other information that should have prompted Capital One to do more checking 
about Mr Cs circumstances.
Capital one gave Mr C a credit limit of £200. In the context of the yearly income he had 
declared and what could be seen on his credit file I dont think this would have been 
unaffordable. I appreciate that Mr C wasnt working at the time and had no income, but this 
isnt what he told Capital One and based on the other information that was available, 
together with the credit limit of £200, there was no reason for Capital One to verify this 
information further. Looking at the information I think Capital One carried out proportionate 
and reasonable checks.
Mr C was initially able to make repayments which would suggest that the limit was 
affordable. Mr C exceeded the limit in October but paid off the balance. I can see that all Mr 
Cs transactions were to the same merchant and so didnt suggest a difficulty meeting 
essential spending. In the circumstances I cant say that Capital One should have known 
that the lending was unaffordable for Mr C.
After Mr C was unable to pay back what he owed I can see that Capital One tried to arrange 
a repayment arrangement in April and June 2015. When Mr C was unable to make those 
repayments Capital One sent Mr C a default letter and the account was defaulted in August 
2015. 
I think it was reasonable for Capital One to try to arrange a repayment plan before defaulting 
the account as a default has very serious consequences on a credit file. When it was clear 
that Mr C wasnt able to repay what he owed I think it was reasonable to default the account 
to stop further charges being added. I agree with the investigator that Capital One has 
followed the guidelines and I cant say the default was wrong or unfair. 
I dont doubt that Mr C was in financial difficulty at the time and I can understand why he 
may not have declared the true state of his finances. I appreciate why he thinks that Capital 
One should have done more checks but I think given what Mr C said about his finances, the 
amount of credit and the credit file results, Capital Ones checks were enough.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman