DRN-3744228
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund a 
transaction its director says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
Mrs T, who is a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf.  
What happened
Mrs T contacted Lloyds to dispute a £2,000 payment using her debit card details that left Ts 
account on 15 March 2022. She says that at the time the payment was made she was 
travelling and couldnt have made it. Mrs T also says that she didnt receive a message to 
authorise the payment and nobody else had access to her mobile phone at the relevant time. 
Lloyds has held T liable for the disputed transaction. It says it has evidence that the payment 
was approved after a text message was sent to Mrs T and there is no evidence the 
transaction was carried out by someone who obtained details fraudulently. Lloyds noted that 
it cancelled Mrs Ts card as it says this is normal practice when it receives an allegation of 
fraud.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said it was more likely than not that Mrs T authorised the disputed transaction 
either by making it herself or allowing someone else to do so. This was because Mrs T said 
nobody else had access to her mobile phone or debit card and a code was sent to Mrs Ts 
registered device as an additional form of authentication. Also, the IP address used to make 
the payment had been used to access the account previously and the transaction wasnt in 
line with usual fraudulent activity.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view. She said:
- She didnt make the payment or allow anyone else to do so. Mrs T provided 
screenshots of all text messages received from Lloyds from 10 March 2022 onwards. 
These show that she received a message to verify a different transaction on 10 
March and that the next message related to her complaint about the disputed 
transaction. Mrs T also pointed out that she doesnt receive text messages from 
Lloyds for all payments. 
- The IP address used when the payment was made isnt hers.
- Her debit card could have been stolen from her wallet and returned after use. 
- This service should contact the recipient electronic money provider to find out what 
the disputed payment was for and where it went. We should also approach her 
mobile network provider to establish how it was possible for someone to steal funds 
from Ts account. 
The investigator got more information but didnt feel it changed her view, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint, I have carefully considered the submissions that have been made 
by Mrs T and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, I have made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and 
the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Broadly speaking, T is responsible for any payments that Mrs T has authorised (either by 
making them herself or authorising someone else to) and isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments except in more limited circumstances. 
On balance, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs T, on behalf of T, authorised the 
payments shes disputing. I say this because:
- Mrs T says that she was in possession and control of the debit card she holds for Ts 
account, so there is no explanation for how a third party could have gained access to 
these details to complete the transaction.
- The disputed payment was made via mobile banking so whoever made it needed to 
have known Mrs Ts online security credentials to make it. Mrs T says she didnt 
share her online banking details with anyone. In the circumstances, I find it difficult to 
understand how a fraudster can have made the disputed transaction. 
- A passcode was sent to Mrs Ts mobile asking her to verify the disputed payment. 
Ive seen evidence that confirms the message was sent and the payment approved. 
Lloyds has also provided evidence of the mobile number registered with it, which 
wasnt changed around the time of the disputed payment. Mrs T says she had her 
mobile phone in her possession so I find it difficult to understand how a third party 
could have responded to the message. 
Mrs T says she didnt receive the message with the code to verify the £2,000 
payment and has provided screenshots that dont include a message on the day of 
the disputed transaction. On balance, Im persuaded its more likely than not the 
message was sent. Im aware that messages can be deleted, and this could be why it 
doesnt show in the screenshots Mrs T has provided. 
- Ive seen evidence of the IP address that was used to make the disputed transaction. 
There were log ins from the same IP address both before and after the disputed 
transaction. I think its unlikely a fraudster would have been able to access the same 
IP address in this way. Mrs T has said the IP address isnt hers, but hasnt provided 
evidence or an explanation for how the IP address used to make the transactions 
was also used when she logged into Ts account before and after the disputed 
transaction.
- Mrs T has said that a fraudster might have stolen her card and returned it after use, 
but I find this unlikely. Once a fraudster has access to a victims funds they usually 
make as many transactions as they can until the account is drained or blocked after a 
victim has discovered a transaction they dont recognise. In this case, Ts account 
balance was significant, but only £2,000 was transferred. 
Mrs T has repeatedly asked this service to provide her with information from the receiving 
electronic money provider. Some information was provided to this service by the provider 
confidentially and cannot be disclosed to Mrs T. And it isnt this services role to investigate 
where the funds went. 
In the circumstances I cant fairly conclude that a third party made the disputed payments 
without Mrs Ts knowledge or consent and so I think Lloyds acted reasonably in this case. I 
also dont think there were any other reasons why Lloyds ought to have had any concerns about the payment as it wasnt so unusual or out of character that Lloyds ought reasonably 
to have intervened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman