DRN-2594609
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the telematics box associated with his motor insurance policy,
provided by Covea Insurance Plc, is faulty. He doesnt think he should pay any charges as a
result of him deciding to cancel his policy.
For ease of reading, reference to Covea will include its agent.
What happened
Mr W took out an insurance policy through an intermediary Ill refer to as G. The policy had a 
telematics box (also known as a black box) associated with it, which monitored his driving. 
Mr W contacted G, as he didnt think the box was recording his driving correctly. G said the 
box was recording properly. As he still didnt think the box was recording his driving correctly 
Mr W cancelled his policy.
G said there was an outstanding balance of £54.81 following the cancellation of the
policy. Mr W didnt think he should be required to pay this, because hed only cancelled the
policy as he felt the box was faulty. When G refused to remove the balance from his
account, Mr W brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained about the box and the associated fees upon cancellation. As the
insurer is responsible for the box and the broker for the cancellation fees, Ive separated
these issues so they can be considered separately. In this decision Im going to focus on
Mr Ws complaint that the box wasnt working properly.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say that the box will transmit data about how he
drives which will be used to calculate his driving score. The policy also says that if the
policyholder (in this case Mr W) chooses to cancel his policy hell be required to pay for the
time he was on cover.
Covea said it carried out remote checks on the box which didnt show any faults. Ive seen a
report that shows no anomalies were recorded. Due to the time thats passed Covea hasnt
been able to provide the information showing Mr Ws daily driving scores  but it has
provided data used to calculate those scores. I havent seen anything in the data to
persuade me that the box wasnt recording properly.
I understand Mr W said the box showed him speeding in January when it was snowing. And
at other times being driven correctly, when hed asked his friend to drive the car in a more
erratic manner to check the box. But the overall score is calculated from an accumulation of
events, so this isnt enough for me to find that the box wasnt working.
I appreciate Mr W doesnt think it would be possible for Covea to check the box remotely.
But I dont think Covea needed to send out an engineer. I say that because the data Ive
seen is the information thats transmitted from the box. Mr W also has concerns about where
in the car the box was fitted, but different insurers will require the box to be fitted in different
places, depending on the design of the box.
Ive also considered the articles Mr W provided which indicate there are sometimes
problems with the way the boxes work. But theyre not enough to persuade me that this
particular box wasnt working. I say that because the data Ive seen from Mr Ws box doesnt
show the type of things Id expect to see in one that wasnt working.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the box wasnt working properly. So, I dont think Covea
is responsible for refunding any fees associated with Mr W cancelling his policy. In any
event, he also had the benefit of cover, so I think its fair and reasonable that he pays the
premium hes been charged for the time he was covered by the policy. So, I dont intend to
require Covea to do anything further.
I gave both parties until 3 February 2021 to respond. 
Covea didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date required.
Mr W replied to say that he still didnt think the box was working properly. He said the scores 
had originally shown he was driving well but then it said he was speeding. He said he 
couldnt have been speeding on the days the box said he was because it was snowing. He 
also said he got his friend to drive his car off-road to experiment with how the score reflected 
the driving, however the box said it was being driven well. Mr Ws partner provided verbal 
testimony to support this. Mr W was also unhappy that Covea didnt send anyone out to look 
at the box after he reported that it wasnt working correctly. 
Mr W let us know that he wanted to provide further evidence to support his view that the box 
wasnt working. I gave Mr W further time to submit evidence and the last extension I allowed 
ended on 10 March 2021. Our investigator also offered to speak with Mr Ws mechanic if he 
preferred. 
Mr W let us know his mechanic wouldnt be providing evidence. Mr W said hed also spoken 
with a company that installs boxes, to find out if there were errors with the box, such as it 
being recalled. However, Mr W hadnt provided and further evidence of this by 10 March 
2021. I have to be reasonable to both parties and Im satisfied that Mr W has had enough 
time to submit any evidence he would like us to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr Ws raised and I know he feels strongly that the box 
wasnt working properly. But, when comparing that to the data Covea provided, Im afraid I 
havent seen enough to persuade me its most likely the box was faulty, even there was 
snow on the dates that showed speeding events. I also dont think Covea acted 
unreasonably in not sending someone out to check the box, as it is able to check it remotely. 
As such Im not going to change the outcome that I came to in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman