DRN-3328159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter 
Savings Bank (CSB) offered them unfavourable rates for their bond compared to the ones 
offered on its website. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
In essence, Mr and Mrs H consider it wouldve been good customer service for CSB 
to have automatically offered them the higher rate it was offering new customers, at 
the point their money was transferred to the new 1 year fixed rate saver bond.
But from what I can see CSB is under no obligation to automatically offer them a 
better rate than the one they chose. It has explained that the rates which it offers 
customers at maturity are generated in advance but are generally in line with their 
product range on sale to all its customers. I dont think thats unreasonable and 
I dont think its unfair on Mr and Mrs H.
My understanding is that once they received the maturity options with the different 
accounts CSB was offering, it would have honoured those rates for them even if it 
subsequently lowered them for new customers. So, I cant say its unfair simply 
because the rate changed to a more favourable one.
Ive also seen a template of the email Mr and Mrs H were sent detailing their maturity 
options. In summary, it says that Mr and Mrs H could have opted for a different 
account on the CSB website. They were specifically informed that CSB constantly 
reviewed its products, and therefore, they may find others which they preferred. 
Mr and Mrs H did not have to choose an alternative product  they could, for example 
choose to have money transferred to a nominated account.
In my view, this means that CSB gave clear, fair and not misleading information such 
that Mr and Mrs H could make an informed choice. 
Given all the circumstances and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont agree that 
Mr and Mrs H were treated unfairly.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman