DRN-4149085
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Covea Insurance plc handled her claim on her home insurance 
following an escape of water. 
What happened
Miss M had home insurance that was underwritten by Covea. In January 2021 there was an 
escape of water from her loft that caused extensive damage to her home. She made a claim 
on the insurance and Covea accepted it.
However the claim didnt run smoothly and repairs took far longer than expected. Miss M 
had cause to complain throughout the claim. In July 2022 the repairs were still outstanding 
and she made a further complaint. Her concerns in particular were:
She had been staying out of the property in alternative accommodation which 
needed to be extended, but Covea wouldnt agree to pay for this past October 2022.
Her contractor has said a building warrant was required for the removal and refitting 
of the stairs in her property, but Covea had said this was unnecessary and refused 
to pay for it.
Her schedule of works had been costed at around £87,000 but Covea had only 
agreed to pay around £60,000.
Covea had handled her claim poorly throughout which had caused delays and 
additional distress. 
She made a complaint to Covea but it didnt respond within the required time scale so she 
brought it to this service. When Covea did respond to the complaint it didnt uphold it.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
made the following recommendations:
Covea should reimburse Miss M for the building warrant plus 8% simple interest to 
make up for the time shes been without the funds.
It should cover the cost of alternative accommodation and storage up until the point 
Miss M moved back into her property.
It should pay the total amount of the original scope of works that was approved at the 
start of the claim.
It should cover any additional payments Miss M has had to pay as a result of having 
to obtain credit to pay for the required repairs and accommodation.
It should pay an additional £500 compensation on top of any payments already made 
to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss M didnt think the compensation was enough, but accepted the rest of the outcome.
Covea didnt accept our investigators outcome. It said from information it had found online, it 
didnt agree a building warrant was required for the removal of the stairs.  It said the property 
was habitable from October, so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay for alternative 
accommodation or storage past this date. It also said that the amount it had paid for repairs 
represented its limit of liability so it wasnt required to pay any more. And it didnt agree 
further compensation was due as it said many of the delays to the claim were caused by 
Miss M.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its of note that Miss M has made a number of complaints throughout the period of this claim, 
which Covea has responded to. Those that Covea responded to in May 2021 and March 
2022, covered issues at the start of the claim. As Miss M brought her complaint to this 
service in October 2022, these complaints werent brought within the required time frame. 
This means I cant make a decision on how Covea addressed the issues raised in either of 
these complaints directly in this decision. 
However, the problems at the start of the claim have led to the position Miss M found herself 
in when she made her most recent complaint. And have had a big impact on the outstanding 
costs and issues that remain unresolved. I have therefore taken these into consideration, 
when deciding on her most recent concerns. 
Ive addressed each of the issues in this complaint in turn.
Delays  alternative accommodation and storage 
From looking at the ample correspondence and case notes from this claim, I think 
Covea has handled it poorly from the start. This was a large claim as the escape of 
water caused considerable damage to Miss Ms home. However Covea didnt appoint 
a loss adjuster to oversee the repairs until March 2022  more than a year into the 
repairs. Miss M has explained shes in her 70s and has little experience in managing 
buildings repairs. Yet she has had to do most of the leg work in sourcing contractors, 
getting quotes and overseeing repairs. And from reviewing everything, it seems, that 
most of the issues have stemmed from this.
Throughout Coveas file, it has said that it should have appointed a loss adjuster in 
the first instance. And I agree, this wasnt a fair or reasonable decision. I therefore 
think it follows that it is responsible for some of the delays and issues this decision 
has caused.
Miss M was originally advised that the water damage could have caused rot in the 
timber frame of the building. However for many months Covea wouldnt agree to 
have a full inspection done. Once this was carried out it revealed that there was rot, 
so the property needed to be properly dried and sterilised. It is unclear why Covea 
initially declined to inspect the property for rot. But if it had done so straight away, this 
would have avoided around a five month delay in total.
Covea has changed its position on whether the removal of the staircase was necessary throughout the claim. It initially said this shouldnt be included as it wasnt 
claim related, then later accepted the cost as part of the claim. This contradictory and 
confusing information delayed the claim moving forward.
Covea has said that Miss M caused the delays to the claim herself. However I dont 
think this is a fair assessment. Where there have been delays on her side this has 
either been due to difficulties in sourcing contractors due to the remote location of her 
property. Or the fact she was having to handle the project management of the claim 
with little support. Covea itself has said that it struggled to find contractors in the 
area, so I dont think its fair to say that Miss Ms difficulties in finding these caused 
an unreasonable delay. And finding and appointing contractors isnt something that 
Miss M was familiar with doing, so I dont think it unreasonable that it sometimes took 
her longer to obtain quotes or find a suitable expert.
Due to this I think Covea has caused significant delays to the claim throughout. And 
this is why the work remained unfinished when Miss M made a complaint in 2022. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss M had requested to stay in alternative 
accommodation for an unreasonable amount of time  just until the work was 
completed. And while Covea has said the additional stay was due to private work she 
was having carried out, its provided no evidence to show that this caused the need 
for any additional time out of the property. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Covea should pay for the cost of 
the alternative accommodation and storage costs for the entire time Miss M was out 
of her home. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount to make up for the 
time Miss M has been without the funds.  
Building warrant
While Covea has now accepted the removal of the staircase was necessary, it maintains that 
a building warrant wasnt required for this work to be completed. And therefore has refused 
to reimburse Miss M for this.
Miss M has said that she acted on advice from Coveas own contractor when obtaining a 
building warrant. And I see no reason why Miss M would have paid for this if she hadnt been 
given this advice. 
Covea has said it has obtained information from an internet search engine that suggests a 
warrant wouldnt be required for this kind of work. However as Miss M was acting on the 
advice of an expert, I dont think it unreasonable that she took this action. And I am more 
persuaded by the advice of a surveyor than generic information found online.
I therefore agree with our investigator that Covea should reimburse Miss M for the building 
warrant and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date she paid for it until the full 
payment is made.
Repair cost
Miss M initially instructed a contractor to put together a scope of works for all the work that 
Covea approved. It wasnt until the work had been completed that Covea disputed this 
original scope and said that some wasnt claim related. However it hasnt provided any 
evidence to show why it believes work is in addition to necessary repairs. Or why its opinion 
on this changed.
As the original scope was compiled by an expert and Covea agreed to the scope in the early stages of the claim, I think it should honour its initial agreement and settle the claim at the 
amount quoted on the initial scope of works. It should also make up for any shortfall in VAT 
based on the difference in cost. And it should pay 8% simple interest on any amount already 
paid from the date Miss M paid until the date Covea pays the settlement. 
Impact
Its clear this has been a really challenging claim for Miss M. And as I laid out in the delays 
section above, I think Covea has done a poor job of supporting her in resolving this complex 
claim. 
Miss M has explained the impact it has had on her health and wellbeing, as well as her day 
to day life throughout the time its been progressing. Shes had to source different 
contractors on a number of occasions which was challenging and inconvenient. And shes 
had to be in constant contact with Covea in order to chase answers and move the claim 
forward. This has been both distressing and inconvenient for Miss M.
Shes also been displaced from her home for much longer than she should have been due to 
the delays it caused. And this would have caused additional distress on top of an already 
stressful claim. 
As Coveas considered the impact of the claim in its complaint response in May 2021 and 
March 2022 that werent subsequently brought to this service on time, I can only consider 
the impact of the claim since March 2022. However I agree with our investigator that £500 is 
a fair amount to apologise for the impact of its actions during that time.
Credit obtained by Miss M
Finally, Miss M has provided this service with evidence that she has had to obtain and utilise 
credit in order to pay for the costs relating to this claim. Therefore its fair and reasonable 
that Covea cover any fees or charges related to this credit when settling the claim, in receipt 
of the evidence from Miss M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Reimburse Miss M for the full cost of the alternative accommodation and storage 
shes paid while out of her home.
Reimburse Miss M for the cost of the building warrant she obtained in relation to the 
removal of the stairs.
Pay the full amount from the original scope of works that was approved by Covea, 
including the VAT where applicable.
Pay 8% simple interest on all amount reimbursed from the date Miss M originally paid 
for the services until Covea pays the final settlement.
Pay any additional fees or charges accrued from credit obtained in order to pay for 
claim related costs.
Pay £500 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman