DRN-2902214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group didnt make them aware 
of an escape of water endorsement when they renewed their unoccupied home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an unoccupied property, which they insured under an unoccupied home 
insurance policy. In 2019 they had instructed their broker, Adrian Flux, to arrange a policy of 
insurance on their behalf. This was done on an non advised sale basis and Adrian Flux 
arranged a policy of insurance with an insurer, which Ill refer to as A1. 
Mr and Mrs S policy with A1 ran from 12 November 2019 until 11 November 2020 and it 
covered their property for water damage while it was unoccupied provided that the water had 
either been turned off at the mains or the heating had been kept running to maintain a 
temperature of 15 degrees centigrade throughout the property.
On 11 November 2020, prior to Mr and Mrs S policy renewing, they contacted Adrian Flux to 
discuss the renewal quote theyd received. There were three telephone discussions that day 
and Adrian Flux confirmed that the policy offered at renewal was with a different insurer on 
its panel, which Ill call A2.
Adrian Flux informed Mr and Mrs S that A1 was no longer working with it and it said that A2 
had offered the most competitive quote. When Mr and Mrs S asked if there was any 
difference in the terms and conditions, given the change of insurer, they were told there was 
no change. 
Mr and Mrs S tried to purchase the new policy with A2 during that telephone call. But when 
the Adrian Flux representative became aware that Mr and Mrs S hadnt read the policy terms 
and conditions they told them to read them prior to completing the sale. M and Mrs S 
confirmed, during a subsequent discussion the same day, that theyd read the policy terms 
and accepted them. They then made payment for the policy.
On 19 February 2021, Mr and Mrs S observed damage in their home, which they believed 
had been caused by an escape of water. So, they contacted Adrian Flux and A2 in order to 
make a claim under their policy. A2 instructed a loss adjuster to attend Mr and Mrs S 
property who determined that water had escaped from the cold-water storage tank in the loft. 
At the time of the escape of water Mr and Mrs S hadnt turned their water off at the mains. 
But theyd kept the heating on during a period of very cold weather.
A2 subsequently repudiated Mr and Mrs S claim on the basis that their policy contained an 
exclusion clause which stated that an unoccupied property would only be covered for 
damage caused by an escape of water if the water had been turned off at the mains. 
Mr and Mrs S say they werent aware of the escape of water endorsement. They feel that it 
should have been brought to their attention by Adrian Flux  particularly as it was more 
onerous than the terms and conditions of the policy theyd held with A1. So, they complained 
that Adrian Flux had mis-sold their policy of insurance.
When Adrian Flux responded to Mr and Mrs S complaint it didnt uphold it. It stated that it 
had made them aware of the policy terms in the renewal documentation it sent out and it 
said that Mr and Mrs S had agreed to the terms before purchasing their policy.
Being dissatisfied with Adrian Fluxs response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs S referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. He was persuaded that Adrian Flux had sufficiently made Mr and 
Mrs S aware of the escape of water endorsement. He therefore didnt ask it to do anything 
further to resolve Mr and Mrs S complaint. But Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have raised a complaint with our service about how A2 dealt with 
their claim for damage following the escape of water. This complaint has already been dealt 
with by our service. So, I wont address any of the issues raised in that complaint in this 
decision, which is about the actions of Adrian Flux.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs S property was unoccupied at the time that is suffered 
damage. Its also accepted that damage occurred following an escape of water at a time 
when the water supply hadnt been turned off at the mains.
All parties accept that Mr and Mrs S previous policy with A1 hadnt required the water to be 
turned off at the mains while the property was unoccupied provided the heating was 
maintained at 15 degrees or over. Its therefore not in dispute that the policy with A2 
introduced a new endorsement which hadnt been present under the previous policy. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Adrian Flux made Mr and Mrs S adequately aware of 
the new endorsement prior to their policy purchase. In order to reach a decision here Ive 
listened to all telephone calls Mr and Mrs S made to Adrian Flux and considered the 
information all parties have provided our service.
Adrian Flux has confirmed that Mr and Mrs S policy with A2 was sold on a non-advised 
basis. The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means Adrian Flux didnt 
need to make sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr and Mrs S needs. But it had a 
responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr and 
Mrs S could make an informed decision on whether the policy was suitable for their needs. 
The responsibility for ensuring they had the cover they required rested on Mr and Mrs S.
Like all insurers, Adrian Flux sends policy documentation to a policyholder prior to renewal. 
This documentation includes, amongst other things, a policy insurance schedule and the 
terms and conditions. Adrian Flux said that it provided Mr and Mrs S with these documents 
prior to the policy being purchased. Mr and Mrs S havent disputed this. 
Ive considered how the information about the escape of water endorsement was presented 
to Mr and Mrs S in the policy documentation they received. Im satisfied information about 
the escape of water endorsement it isnt hidden away. Its contained on the first page of the 
renewal notice under the section titled excesses, endorsements and conditions. The policy 
schedule also prominently outlines that an endorsement applies to escape of water claims. Both documents state in clear, intelligible language that cover in respect of escape of water 
or burst pipes irrespective of the initial or proximate cause shall only apply provided that the 
water be turned off at the mains. 
I think the policy documents Mr and Mrs S were provided with clearly outline that any 
damage following an escape of water wont be covered unless the water has been turned off 
at the mains. And this means that Im satisfied that Adrian Flux provided Mr and Mrs S with 
sufficient information about the escape of water endorsement. 
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs S made three separate 
telephone calls to Adrian Flux on 9 November 2020. During the first call Mr and Mrs S 
negotiated the cost of their renewal quote with Adrian Flux. But the sale wasnt completed 
during this call. 
When Mr and Mrs S contacted Adrian Flux for the second time they were incorrectly told the 
policy with A2 was the same as the policy theyd held with A1. Based on the information Mr 
and Mrs S had been provided by the Adrian Flux representative, I think it would have been 
reasonable to for them to believe theyd be covered for an escape of water if they maintained 
the heating at their property  as their previous policy required. 
Had Mr and Mrs S paid for their policy at this point Id have upheld this complaint based on 
the incorrect information they were given. But, after the representative incorrectly stated that 
the terms and conditions hadnt changed, they asked Mr and Mrs S whether theyd read the 
renewal invite and policy terms and conditions. And when the representative found out that 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt read the policy terms they explained theyd need to do so prior to 
proceeding with their purchase. Mr and Mrs S agreed to read the policy terms and call back. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Adrian Flux for the third time later the same day. During that call, 
they confirmed that they accepted the policy terms and that the level of cover offered was 
correct. Its at this point they go on to finalise the purchase of their policy with A2. 
Prior to finalising the purchase of their policy, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were directed 
by Adrian Flux to check the policy terms. Based on the available evidence, Mr and Mrs S 
had the opportunity of reviewing all relevant information relating to their policy to enable 
them to make an informed decision about whether the policy they wanted to purchase was 
suitable and matched the cover they required.    
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome. But, based on everything Ive 
seen, I cant fairly conclude that Adrian Flux mis-sold a policy of insurance here. So, I wont 
be asking Adrian Flux to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman