DRN-4353878
The complaint
K complains about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim on its 
haulage insurance policy. 
Mr H is the director of K and brought this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
K had a commercial insurance policy to cover the haulage vehicles it used for its business. 
In 2021 Mr H was driving a vehicle round a roundabout when it tipped over and fell on its 
side. He made a claim on Ks insurance and AXA accepted the claim. 
After some time, it declared the vehicle a total loss. In November 2021 it reimbursed the 
finance company it had been bought through for the outstanding finance. 
However Mr H was unhappy with how AXA had handled the claim. He said because of the 
delays it had caused, K had been unable to trade for many weeks. And this meant he had 
lost out on income which had put his company into financial difficulties. He made a complaint 
and asked AXA to reimburse K for these lost earnings. 
AXA agreed it had caused delays and calculated this at around 79 days. It appointed a 
forensic accountant who considered submissions made by Mr H and decided that his lost 
earnings would amount to an average of £836 per working day. They also calculated the 
money saved from not trading and concluded he had a net loss of £29,178.80. AXA based 
its settlement for loss of earnings on this amount and also paid K £5,000 compensation to 
apologise for the inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this as he said his business was growing and he was projected to 
make much more than that in the months he was without a vehicle. He also said he was 
without a vehicle for longer than 79 days so thought AXA hadnt provided a fair settlement. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AXA had followed a 
fair process to calculate Ks loss of earnings so she wouldnt ask it to do anything differently. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said that AXA hasnt paid enough to make up for Ks lost earnings while it was 
without a vehicle. 
Ks policy doesnt provide a replacement vehicle as part of the policy terms. Nor does it 
cover any lost income while a vehicle is off the road. Therefore after it was involved in an 
incident and was off the road, AXA wasnt obliged to provide a replacement vehicle or 
reimburse lost earnings. 
However AXA has accepted that it delayed progressing matters, which meant K was left 
without a vehicle or the funds to purchase a new one for longer than it should have been. 
And AXA has agreed to pay for the lost funds caused by these delays. And this is what this 
service would expect it to do in the circumstances.
AXA has provided a timeline of the actions and events from the date of the incident on 18 
June 2021, until the settlement was paid to the finance company on 16 November that year. 
Its identified a number of times when it failed to take prompt action, including delays to 
appointing an engineer to inspect the vehicle and in reviewing the report when it was 
provided. Its said the delays amount to a total of 79 working days and this is what its based 
the settlement on. 
Ive reviewed the timeline provided and I think this is a reasonable assessment. I can see 
there are times when no action was taken for periods of time, and AXA has agreed to pay 
loss of earnings during these periods. 
I note Mr Hs comments that he should be paid 189 days instead. While the claim took 
around five months to settle, it wouldnt be fair to ask AXA to pay loss of earnings for the 
entire duration. This is because the need to claim would always cause K to be without the 
vehicle for a period of time. And as this isnt covered under the policy, it would be considered 
an uninsured loss so K would always have lost some earnings during this time. But as AXA 
has caused it to be without a vehicle for longer than it should, then its fair it pays for just the 
additional time that is due to these delays. From what its provided I think 79 working days is 
an accurate reflection of the additional time caused by delays. I therefore think its acted 
fairly and reasonably by basing its settlement on this timescale. 
Mr H has said that AXA didnt settle his whole claim in November, but paid it in two parts, 
with the additional part being paid in December. So he says he should be paid loss of 
earnings for the additional weeks to that date. 
AXA has provided a breakdown of the payments it made. And I can see that it did make a 
further payment towards the claim settlement in December of around £3,000. However it 
paid off the outstanding finance of around £23,000 and an additional amount of around 
£4,000 directly to K both in November. And I think this would be enough to allow Mr H to 
purchase a replacement vehicle. So I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to pay any 
further loss of earnings after this date. 
Ive also considered the daily rate AXA has based its payment for loss of earnings on. It 
instructed a forensic accountant who analysed Ks income in the period before the incident, 
and during the time Mr H hired a vehicle while its was unavailable. And they calculated the 
average daily earnings to be £836, which is what the settlement is based on. While Mr H has 
said that his business was due to grow in the months after the incident, this is based on a 
projection and therefore it isnt a definite income. So I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA 
to based its payment on projected earnings, and instead think its reasonable that it based it 
on the evidence of what K has earned in the past. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that AXA has fairly resolved Ks complaint. It has fairly identified 
a delay of 79 working days and based the loss of earnings rate on an assessment by a 
forensic accountant, which is a reasonable step to take. I therefore wont ask it to do 
anything differently.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
K, to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman