DRN-4455979
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined his claim and 
terminated his policy.
What happened
Mr S had contents insurance underwritten by RSA. He claimed under the policy after a paint 
tin was accidentally knocked off a stepladder, spilling paint on his sofa and carpet. He 
provided RSA with photos of the paint spillage before and after his attempt to clean it up.
RSA arranged an inspection, but the appointment didnt go ahead. RSA said its agents 
couldnt get hold of Mr S at the agreed appointment time. So, the claim investigation was 
carried out by phone and desktop review of the photos.
On review of the evidence and Mr Ss responses, RSA declined the claim. Its experts 
reports said the damage wasnt consistent with Mr Ss description of the event, and they 
provided a detailed explanation of why.
RSA told Mr S that it had declined his claim and terminated his policy under the fraud 
condition. 
Unhappy with its decision, Mr S complained to RSA. He said RSA hadnt investigated his 
claim appropriately because it was based on a desktop review. So Mr S wanted RSA to 
accept his explanation of how the damage had happened and, in turn, accept his claim. 
RSA gave Mr S another opportunity to provide evidence to support his claim, but he said the 
photos were all he had. RSA issued its final response to Mr Ss complaint stating it had 
applied the fraud condition in line with the policy, which allowed it to decline the claim and 
terminate the policy.
Mr S was unhappy with RSAs response, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. She said RSA had carried out 
an appropriate investigation, and it had declined the claim and terminated the policy in line 
with the policy wording.
Mr S didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Claim
Mr S complained that RSA declined his claim. RSA said it declined the claim because the 
damage wasnt consistent with Mr Ss description of how it happened.
Ive looked at the three reports RSA provided, the photos Mr S provided, and his description 
of how the paint spillage happened. The reports all indicate that the paint damage would be 
a different pattern and more extensive than shown in the photos. I found the arguments 
made within the reports compelling.
I note that RSA asked Mr S to explain more about the accident, such as where the paint tin 
lid landed, and how the paint dripped from a protruding cushion onto the kickboard. I think it 
was reasonable for RSA to give Mr S an opportunity to provide a response to these technical 
opinions before it reached a decision on the claim. However, the evidence suggests that Mr 
S didnt provide RSA with any answers.
On balance, Im satisfied that the evidence supports RSAs decision to decline the claim 
because of the various technical opinions that the damage was not consistent with Mr Ss 
description of the damage, as well as Mr S being unable to provide satisfactory 
explanations for the discrepancies in [his] account of how the damage occurred.
I see no reason to require RSA to reconsider the claim. However, I should point out that RSA 
offered another review if Mr S had any further evidence to provide which might support his 
claim. I think thats a fair offer in the circumstances, and one which Mr S may wish to 
consider.
Desktop review
Mr S didnt think RSAs desktop review was sufficient to identify whether the damage was 
consistent with his explanation of the event. RSA said it arranged an inspection, but Mr S 
wasn't available. 
RSAs record of the claim shows that it tried to contact Mr S twice on the appointed day but 
without success. I have no reason to doubt the record. That said, I dont think this is material 
to the complaint. Thats because Mr Ss photos of the damage were enough for RSAs 
experts to reach a conclusion. 
I understand Mr S will be disappointed that RSA declined his claim without assessing the 
damage in person. But, looking at the photos, Im persuaded that they show enough to 
confirm the lack of paint spatter or more extensive damage referred to in the expert reports. 
Therefore, I find the expert reports credible, and RSA reasonably relied on the conclusions 
to decline the claim. 
In summary, Im satisfied that the evidence indicates RSAs desktop review was enough to 
reach a fair conclusion. And Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable to do so in these 
circumstances as RSA had been unable to review the damage in person for reasons outside 
its control.Terminated policy
Mr S is unhappy that RSA terminated his contents insurance policy. He says RSA also 
cancelled other policies he had with it. RSA said it terminated the policy in line with the fraud 
condition, which is set out in the policy booklet.
The policy states:
4. FRAUD
If you, your family or anyone acting on your behalf:
a. Makes any false or fraudulent claim
b. Makes any exaggerated claim
c. Makes a claim for loss or damage which the insured or anyone acting on the 
insureds behalf deliberately caused we will:
i. Refuse to pay the whole of the claim; and
ii. Recover from you any sums that we have already paid in respect of the 
claim
We will also notify you if we will be treating the policy as having terminated. The policy 
will be terminated with effect from the date of the earliest of any acts set out in (a)  (c) 
above. In that event, you will:
Have no cover under the policy from the date of termination; and
Not be entitled to any refund of premium
RSA told Mr S that it didnt think the damage had happened how he described. In the 
absence of any evidence to contradict its conclusion, RSA said Mr S had made a false claim. 
As shown above, the policy allows RSA to decline the claim and notify Mr S if it is going to 
terminate the policy. Therefore, Im satisfied that RSA acted in line with the policy.
Ive looked at the evidence to determine whether theres anything to suggest RSA applied 
this term unfairly in the circumstances. As RSA gave Mr S opportunity to explain the event 
further, which he didnt take, Im satisfied RSAs decision to terminate the policy was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the overall circumstances, the evidence persuades me that RSA declined Mr Ss 
claim and terminated his policy fairly and reasonably for the reasons it gave, and in line with 
the policy. 
For clarity, that does not mean Ive decided Mr S made a false claim  Im simply saying the 
evidence indicates RSA made a fair decision about his claim based on the evidence 
available.
Therefore, I see no reason to require RSA to do any more.
As a final point, Mr S said RSA cancelled another of his policies. As its a different type of 
insurance, hed need to raise that as a separate complaint and give his insurer the 
opportunity to respond. I havent taken this into consideration when reaching my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman