DRN-2779194
The complaint
Mrs H complains about three personal loans provided to her by TM Advances Limited, 
trading as TM Advances, (TMA), which she says were irresponsibly lent. 
What happened
TMA agreed three loans for Mrs H. All the loans have been repaid. Some of the information 
TMA provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 5/8/2015 1/8/2017 £1,500 £156.13 24
2. 6/10/2017 18/10/2017 £2,000 £215 24
3. 16/3/2018 22/3/2020 £3,000 £297.50 24
Mrs H says that TMA had approved three loans for her at a time when she was going 
through a number of health issues, she had other payday loans and large loans from other 
lenders, and she was on a debt management plan (DMP).  She said that TMA knew she 
had defaults plus high cost short term loans and issued her with an even higher interest loan 
to settle these. She also had a huge £5,000 overdraft. She said that she was coming out of a 
DMP at the time, but TMA didnt ask her about that. Mrs H felt that TMA should have asked 
more questions to understand the overall picture rather than concentrating on what she was 
earning at the time. Mrs H also said that the interest rate on the loans was unreasonably 
high and she didnt believe that TMA was treating her fairly in offering her the loans. She is 
seeking a refund of interest on Loans 1 to 3.
In its final response letter TMA provided information about Mrs Hs declared income and 
expenses, her credit commitments, the purpose of the loans and some information about 
Mrs Hs circumstances. It said that Loans 1 and 2 had been repaid without any missed 
payments. TMA said that it could be seen from all three of its affordability assessments that 
Mrs H could afford the repayments easily. She did not have any adverse credit to suggest 
financial difficulty. It went through her affordability in detail and this included conducting 
credit searches and verifying the income paid into her account with her bank turnover data
along with obtaining land registry searches for the properties she owned.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that Mrs Hs complaint about   
Loan 3 should be upheld. She hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for TMA to provide 
Loan 1 to Mrs H. She hadnt considered Loan 2 in her assessment as she said that Mrs H 
hadnt paid interest or charges on it. The adjudicator didnt think the checks TMA carried out 
before Loan 3 were proportionate. She thought proportionate checks shouldve included 
obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mrs Hs financial circumstances including verifying this 
information. With this in mind, the adjudicator said that by the time of Loan 3, Mrs Hs 
circumstances didnt seem to be improving and TMA shouldnt have lent Loan 3 to her. 
TMA disagreed and responded to ask about the information Mrs H had provided to this 
Service and how that would be different from the information it had seen on its credit checks. 
TMA also said that Loan 3 was to be used to pay off one small loan with a balance of £259, 
and not a monthly payment of £259 (which the adjudicator had referred to in her view). The 
remaining money was for car repairs. TMA noted that the loan application for Loan 3 said 
that Mrs H had done work on one of her houses and this could have been a reason why her 
credit commitments had increased. TMA also said that Mrs H wasn't using short term loans 
and she had a monthly disposable income figure of over £1,000 to cover its monthly loan 
repayment of £297, after it had taken off living costs, allowances for vehicles and childcare 
costs. TMA also said that Mrs H had a partner who was contributing to the household.
The adjudicator responded to say that Mrs H had provided her bank statements to this 
Service. She had also considered Mrs Hs borrowing history and her credit reports. She 
noted the loan balance of £259 but said that this didnt affect her view. She noted that 
following Loan 1 Mrs H was in a cycle of debt, using loans to repay existing commitments, 
and TMA allowing further borrowing was only worsening the consumer's position.
TMA responded by asking for an ombudsman to review the file.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it came to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to TMA on 25 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry to hear about Mrs Hs health difficulties. 
I noted that when TMA lent to Mrs H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged TMA to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TMA needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TMA had to think about whether Mrs H could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs H. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Hs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Hs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did TMA make a fair lending decision? 
Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Hs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
As set out above, TMA gathered some information from Mrs H about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loans. It also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
Although Mrs Hs loan application form showed she applied for a loan of £750, shed 
received a loan of £1,500. Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 1 was 74.9%,           
(185.3% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£156.13. If Mrs H had made each payment when it was due, shed pay £3,747.12 in total. 
Mrs H told TMA that she wanted the loan to consolidate two short term loans. 
TMA gathered information about Mrs Hs income and expenses including information about 
her partners income and his contribution to joint expenses. TMA asked Mrs H about her 
mortgage payments, living costs, child costs, and car costs. It also checked her credit 
commitments through its credit checks. 
In its final response letter, TMA said that Mrs H had a disposable income of £1,066. I was 
concerned that TMA seemed to have accepted at face value that Mrs H would have a  
disposable income of £1,066 a month (after settling some short term loans) yet needed to 
borrow £1,500 at an APR of 185.3%, for the purpose of repaying some short term loans.
I was also concerned that TMA appeared to have relied on Mrs Hs statement of her 
expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure 
over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer;
So, I thought in Mrs Hs circumstances, it would have been proportionate to have verified her 
expenses. Id noted that TMA said that it had verified Mrs Hs income with bank turnover 
data.
Id reviewed TMAs credit checks. TMA was likely aware from these that Mrs H had two 
defaulted accounts from 2011 and 2012. I didnt think it was unreasonable for TMA to be 
more interested in Mrs Hs more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether 
Loan 1 was affordable.
TMAs credit checks also showed that Mrs H had 10 active accounts with a total credit 
balance of £8,775 outstanding (excluding her mortgages). The checks showed that Mrs H 
had three credit cards with a total balance of around £2,500, and that she was very near the 
credit limit on one card. They also showed that Mrs H had three current accounts and she 
was very near the overdraft limit of £5,000 on one of the accounts. The checks also showed 
that Mrs H had received two loans totalling about £750 around two months earlier which 
were still outstanding and three other short term loans had been settled in the six months 
prior to the loan application. TMA was also aware from its checks that Mrs H had a debt 
management plan (DMP) that was due to finish shortly. She was paying £364 to the DMP.
Overall, I thought the results of its credit checks were likely to have caused TMA concerns 
as Mrs Hs finances appeared to be under pressure as shown especially by her recent need 
for credit and her current account and one credit card being very near their respective credit 
limits. I didnt think TMA treated Mrs H fairly when it agreed to lend to her based on the 
information it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for her would simply add to her debt levels, notwithstanding that Mrs H 
had said that Loan 1 was being used to repay two outstanding short term loans. 
Id also thought TMA might have been concerned as to why someone with a relatively large 
amount of available income (according to her declared income and expenses) would need to 
borrow expensive credit. It calculated that Mrs H had a disposable income of £1,066. So, I 
thought it ought to have been concerned that she wanted to borrow high cost credit of 
£1,500 from it to repay credit of around £750. 
So, in these circumstances and in line with CONC 5.3.1 (4), I didnt think it was reasonable 
for TMA to have relied on the information provided by Mrs H without verifying it. I thought 
TMA should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Mrs Hs 
financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan. TMA 
didnt say that it had taken steps to do this, other than to verify Mrs Hs income using bank 
turnover data. So overall, I didnt think the checks TMA had carried out on this occasion 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Mrs Hs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown TMA that   
Mrs H couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
Loan 2Mrs H applied for Loan 2 around two months after repaying Loan 1. Although her loan 
application form showed shed applied for a loan of £1,500, shed received a loan of £2,000. 
The loan was to be repaid by 24 monthly payments of £215. Id noted that the interest rate 
on Loan 2 was 79%, (198.6% APR). If Mrs H had made each payment when it was due, 
shed pay £5,160 in total. The purpose of the loan was shown as a holiday and car repairs.
TMAs application form showed Mrs Hs income of £4,391 after tax and that she received a 
contribution from her partner of £1,620. It showed total expenses of £3,420 plus credit 
repayments of around £1,130. TMAs final response letter showed a disposable income      
of £1,103.
I was again concerned that TMA seemed to have accepted at face value that Mrs H would 
have a disposable income of £1,103 and yet shed originally applied to borrow high cost 
credit of £1,500 which then increased to £2,000 at an APR of 198.6%, for the purpose of a 
holiday and car repairs.
Id reviewed TMAs credit checks. They showed that Mrs H had 11 active accounts with a 
total credit balance of £14,889 outstanding (excluding her mortgages). So, her credit had 
increased by around 70% since taking out Loan 1. The checks showed that Mrs H had five 
credit cards, and that she was very near the credit limit on two of the cards. Although the 
checks didnt show that she had taken out recent short term loans, she did have two high 
cost loans outstanding. One of these had a balance of around £6,500. Overall, I thought the 
results of its credit checks should have caused TMA some concerns as Mrs Hs finances 
appeared to be under pressure as shown especially by her relatively high cost credit balance 
and two credit cards being very near their respective credit limits.
Again, I didnt think TMAs checks went far enough given Mrs Hs circumstances and the 
provisions of CONC 5.3.1(4) referred to above. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for TMA 
to rely on the information provided by Mrs H without verifying it. She was applying for a 
second high cost loan from it relatively soon after repaying her first one and she already had 
two other high cost credit loans despite having a relatively high disposable income. I thought 
TMA should again have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Mrs Hs 
financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan. So 
overall, I didnt think the checks TMA carried out on this occasion were fair. 
Mrs H repaid Loan 2 after 12 days as she said shed obtained a cheaper loan elsewhere. 
She had to pay charges of £51.96 to repay the loan. But five months later she was seeking 
more credit again and applied for Loan 3.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was for £3.000 and was her highest loan from TMA. I noted that the interest rate on 
Loan 3 was 69%, (166.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly 
repayments of £297.50. If Mrs H made each payment when it was due, shed pay £7,140 in 
total. 
Mrs H told TMA that she wanted the loan to repay a short term loan of £259 and for car 
repairs. 
TMA again gathered information about Mrs Hs income and expenses including information 
about her partners income and his contribution to joint expenses. TMA asked Mrs H about 
her mortgage payments, living costs, child costs, and car costs. But it didnt appear to have 
verified the expenses in line with CONC 5.3.1(4). It had also checked her credit 
commitments through its credit checks. In its final response letter, TMA said that Mrs H had a disposable income of £1,039. I was 
again concerned that TMA seemed to have accepted at face value that Mrs H would have a  
disposable income of £1,039 a month yet needed to borrow £3,000 at a high interest rate for 
the purpose of repaying a short term loan which was likely repayable at a much lower 
interest rate than Loan 3, and for carrying out car repairs.
Id reviewed TMAs credit checks. 
TMAs credit checks showed that Mrs H had 12 active accounts with a total credit balance of 
£22,726 outstanding (excluding her mortgages). So, her borrowing had increased by around 
52% since taking out Loan 2, around five months earlier. The checks showed that Mrs H had 
four credit cards with a total balance of around £6,000 and that she had received three loans 
totalling over £15,000 in the five months prior to the application for Loan 3. Mrs H told TMA 
that one of these loans of around £3,000 had been repaid. But I could see that a loan taken 
out in the month prior to the application for Loan 3 had a balance of over £7,500. It had been 
partly used to repay a previous loan. 
Id thought TMA ought to have been concerned about Mrs Hs ability to repay Loan 3 out of 
her usual means, without borrowing, as she wasnt managing to do so with her existing debt. 
Its clear that her finances were already pressured, and shed also taken on substantially 
more debt within the previous five months. I didnt think it was likely Mrs H would be able to 
meet further debt sustainably if she was just servicing her existing debt. 
I didnt think TMA treated Mrs H fairly when it agreed to lend to her based on the information 
it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that agreeing more 
credit for her would simply add to her debt levels, notwithstanding that Mrs H had said that 
Loan 3 was being used to repay an outstanding loan. 
At the least and in line with CONC 5.3.1.(4), I thought it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for TMA to have verified Mrs Hs spending to gain a more thorough 
understanding of Mrs Hs financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could sustainably 
repay Loan 3. TMA didnt say it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think that the checks 
that TMA carried out before agreeing to the loan were reasonable and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did TMA make a fair 
lending decision? 
Loan 1
Mrs H had provided some bank statements and a credit report from around the time shed 
applied for Loan 1. I didnt suggest that these were the checks that TMA should have done. 
But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. 
Had it sought some verification of Mrs Hs finances, I thought TMA wouldve been in a better 
position to understand her financial situation before it decided to lend to her. 
Id reviewed Mrs Hs bank statements for the three months before shed applied for Loan 1 
(May to July 2015). It was clear from the May and June 2015 statements that Mrs H was 
gambling heavily. Her spending on gambling was higher than her income in these two 
months. The gambling had reduced in July 2015 but was still a significant percentage of her 
income and frequent enough that I thought it was more likely than not that the gambling 
would have continued in the same pattern. It pointed to a pattern of spending that posed a 
risk to Mrs H being able to repay the loan sustainably. 
So, if TMA had carried out the independent view of Mrs Hs circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought TMA ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs H would have been able to sustainably repay Loan 1. So, it should reasonably have 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to her and so I considered it was irresponsible to 
have done so. So, I thought TMA treated Mrs H unfairly when it agreed to lend Loan 1 to her. 
Loan 2
Id reviewed Mrs Hs bank statements and credit report from around the time of Loan 2. 
I could see that Mrs Hs income was around the region of the income amount shed declared 
to TMA. I could also see that her expenditure on living costs was a little more than shed 
declared although her financial commitments were similar to those TMA had found in its 
credit checks. It also appeared that Mrs H had stopped gambling by the time of Loan 2. 
Overall, I didnt think further probing would have led TMA to decline to lend Loan 2 to Mrs H. 
And taking everything into account, I couldnt say that TMA was irresponsible to have agreed 
this loan for Mrs H.
Loan 3
As Id concluded above, I didnt think TMA should have agreed this loan for Mrs H based on 
the information it had. And I didnt think further checks would have provided any assurance 
that she could repay the loan sustainably. 
Mrs H had provided some bank statements and a credit report from around the time shed 
applied for Loan 3. 
Id reviewed Mrs Hs credit report and bank statements for the two months prior to her 
application for Loan 3. Id noted that Mrs Hs monthly income was in the region of the 
amount shed declared to TMA. But had TMA sought some verification of Mrs Hs spending, I 
thought TMA wouldve been in a better position to understand Mrs Hs financial situation 
before it decided to lend to her.
 
Id thought if TMA had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was likely 
it would have discovered more about Mrs Hs financial position and her financial difficulties. 
The bank statements that Mrs H provided to us show that around the time shed applied for 
Loan 3, her financial circumstances were somewhat strained. In each of the two months, 
shed had to borrow a high cost loan to supplement her income  shed borrowed loans of 
£230 and £1,000 in those two months. Id also noted that she borrowed a short term loan of 
£1,500 in December 2017. Mrs Hs total expenditure on living costs, financial commitments 
and contributions to commitments shared with her partner exceeded her income in each of 
those two months.
 
Id also noted that TMA said that Mrs Hs declared disposable income was £1,039 and that 
she could afford all her repayments easily. But it seemed to me that TMA was focussing on 
its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mrs H on a pounds and pence basis. 
But the lender was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might have 
been an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a consumer shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make her payments, it followed that a lender should have realised, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that a consumer wouldnt be able to sustainably 
make her repayments if it was on notice that she would be unlikely to be able to make her 
repayments without borrowing further.
So, if TMA had carried out the independent view of Mrs Hs circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought TMA ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs H would have been able to sustainably repay Loan 3. So, it should reasonably have 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to her and so I considered it was irresponsible to 
have done so. So, Id thought TMA treated Mrs H unfairly when it agreed to lend Loan 3 to 
her. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mrs H or TMA my provisional decision was that 
I intended to say that TMA had treated Mrs H unfairly when it agreed to lend Loans 1 and 3 
to her, and that TMA should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what TMA needs to do
TMA should:
a) refund the interest and fees Mrs H paid for Loans 1 and 3;
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the
date of settlement; and
c) remove any adverse information about Loans 1 and 3 from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give  
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision to say that she was pleased with it and had 
nothing more to add. 
TMA didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mrs H and TMA have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require TMA to pay Mrs H some compensation and take the steps as 
set out below.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order TM Advances Limited, trading as TM Advances, to
1. Refund the interest and fees Mrs H paid for Loans 1 and 3;
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the
date of settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 1 and 3 from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give  
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman