DRN-3325046
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Zurich Insurance Plc declined a fire claim under a commercial 
combined insurance policy.
Mr M has brought the complaint on behalf of a company M. Representatives have been 
involved during the complaint, but Ill refer only to Mr M throughout this decision and not to 
the business.
Zurich has been represented during the claim by various parties and representatives but for 
ease Ill refer mainly to Zurich throughout.
What happened
The records show that on the day before the fire Mr M had done some work at the business 
premises. In the early hours of the next day Mr M was contacted as an alarm at the business 
premises had gone off. When Mr M went to the site and was investigating, he uncovered a 
fire and contacted the fire brigade.
Mr M made a fire claim and an investigation was undertaken by experts appointed by Zurich. 
A report was issued following investigation and Zurich declined the claim stating a condition 
precedent hadnt been complied with regarding the daily clearing up of trade waste. Zurich 
said due to the policy condition not being adhered to it was declining the claim. Mr M didnt 
accept this and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence showed the policy 
condition hadnt been complied with. She accepted the evidence that there was a significant 
sawdust accumulation and the experts opinion that the fire initiated from the sawdust. Our 
investigator said Zurich acted reasonably when it declined the claim.
Mr M didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has highlighted the condition in the policy. It states:
It is a condition precedent to our liability that trade waste, cuttings and clippings are swept 
gathered and bagged daily and removed from the premises at least once a week.
Zurich said it was clear that the condition hadnt been complied with. It said it was the 
insureds responsibility to read the policy and ensure the condition of the policy are met.
The experts report following the fire said:
a significant accumulation of sawdust was found around the rear right hand corner. Forensic 
investigation consider that the fire was probably initiated as a smoulder in sawdust, and a 
considerable quantity would have been required to allow the fire to develop and spread. This 
breach is considered material to the subject loss.
Zurich said the experts eliminated all alternative causes of fire including taking away for 
examination some of the electrical wiring, and no signs of any forced entry or anyone 
starting the fire deliberately. It concluded a report on the damage and said:
possible that the lack of sweeping and bagging of waste (sawdust in this case) was material 
to the cause of the fire.
Zurich noted that the fire was very close to the area Mr M had been working in the day 
before.
It said the waste hadnt been bagged daily and the policy condition hadnt been followed. 
Zurich concluded that the claim wouldnt be paid on this basis.
Mr M made a detailed response to our investigators findings and stated that he didnt think 
Zurich had produced solid facts. He said the pit should be eliminated from consideration due 
to a lack of clarity and it was only charred on top. Mr M pointed out that trade materials 
rather than trade waste had been burnt during the fire. Mr M referred to several sections of 
advisory papers from respected fire prevention authorities. Mr M said, it may be possible 
that a spark from the saw landed on some of this dust. But he also went on to point out that 
much of the sawdust was still intact after the fire. Mr M concluded by saying that he would 
have cleared up the dust waste the next morning and as that was within 24 hours then this 
wasnt a breach of the condition.
I can understand what Mr M said here. What I must consider is did Zurich act reasonably 
and fairly when it declined to deal with the claim based on the evidence it had. I can see 
Mr Ms interpretation of the condition as meaning within 24 hours, but I think daily means 
the same day, not the next day. I think thats the most common meaning of such a wording 
and thats how Zurich have interpreted it.
The best evidence Ive got to go on here is from Zurichs experts and it indicates that the 
build up of trade waste is the most likely cause of the fire. In line with the condition within the 
policy I think Zurich has acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim.
Mr M mentioned in correspondence that he felt he had strong grounds for a legal challenge 
against Zurich. I can confirm that if Mr M declines to accept my decision he is free to take 
legal proceedings forward against Zurich.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Zurich Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman