DRN-3109856
The complaint
Mr J complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Simpson Kelly Associates 
Ltd (SKA) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with 
British Steel to a Personal Pension (PP).
Mr J is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced it would be looking at options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes about their preserved pension 
benefits, including transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund, or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a PP. 
In April 2017, Mr J transferred one of his OPS to a PP after approaching SKA for advice on 
doing so. At the time it completed a fact find and risk questionnaire. And, a few months later, 
Mr J got in touch with SKA again to transfer the benefits in his BSPS. But it didnt have the 
necessary permission to advise him on this. So it referred Mr J to another firm  which Ill 
refer to as Firm B  who advised him to transfer his BSPS benefits to the PP. SKA had 
already taken over the servicing of Mr Js PP and became the ongoing adviser in relation to 
it after the first transfer, which Mr J stopped in 2018.
In 2020, Mr J complained to SKA and Firm B via a representative about the suitability of the 
advice to transfer his BSPS benefits. In summary, Mr J said SKA was involved in giving the 
unsuitable advice, as it was working collaboratively with Firm B in the way it had done with 
several different customers. And that, as a result, its jointly responsible for his losses. 
SKA responded saying it isnt responsible for any transfer advice Mr J was given, as Firm B 
provided it. SKA said it made it clear to Mr J that it didnt have permission to provide OPS 
transfer advice. And that its role was limited to that of an introducer, which involved 
gathering information before referring Mr J to Firm B. 
Unhappy with this, Mr J came to our Service raising complaints about both SKA and Firm B. 
He added, in summary, that shortly after the first transfer SKA text him telling him to keep an 
eye out for an increased transfer value from his BSPS, suggesting that transferring this too 
would be a good idea. Mr J said SKA completed all the paperwork, he didnt have any 
contact with Firm B prior to the transfer and only received the suitability letter after this had 
been finalised. Mr J also said he had limited investment experience. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Js complaint against SKA. He said it was clear from 
the correspondence that Firm B was responsible for determining whether Mr J should 
transfer his BSPS. And he said that the losses Mr Js suffered by transferring his BSPS were 
attributable to its actions and omissions, rather than SKAs. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman.  
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Firm B is in liquidation, I cant consider Mr Js complaint about transfer advice he was 
given against it. And, having considered whether SKA should be held responsible for this 
advice and Mr Js resulting losses in some form, I dont think it should. Ill explain why. 
It isnt unusual for a firm that introduces a customer to another for advice to facilitate the 
transfer. I think SKA did that here by completing the fact find and attitude to risk 
questionnaire with Mr J, and that this will have involved some discussions with him about his 
retirement and a possible transfer. 
Ive taken into account that Mr Js said SKA first suggested to him that transferring his BSPS 
was a good idea. And I can see that when SKA told Mr J he should have received an options 
letter from British Steel it also told him which of those it thought was most attractive. 
However, SKA also explained to Mr J more than once in its communication with him that 
such transfers have to be referred to an independent pensions specialist it uses, and I think 
its likely it was referring to Firm B here. I can see Firm B sent Mr J a letter saying it would be 
responsible for giving him the transfer advice and that SKA would assist with the 
documentation. And, while I havent seen the suitability report, the transfer documentation 
sent to BSPS, which Mr J signed, says Firm B gave formal advice, rather than SKA.
Its possible that SKA strayed into giving Mr J advice during his discussions with it, but the 
BSPS required him to be given appropriate financial advice. And, considering SKA didnt 
have the right permissions to give that, this means the transfer couldnt have taken place 
based on any communication he had with it. It was only able to take place due to Firm Bs 
advice. 
As Firm B had the appropriate permissions and provided the formal recommendation to     
Mr J, it was responsible for giving him suitable advice and ensuring he understood this. And, 
while I appreciate Mr Js comments that several of the customers SKA referred to Firm B 
were advised to transfer from their OPS, I think SKA was entitled to rely on Firm B acting in 
accordance with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority - FCA) requirements. The 
FCA required Firm B to act in Mr Js best interests, provide him with suitable advice and treat 
him fairly. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold SKA responsible if Firm B didnt 
meet those requirements.
Firm B was also free to advise Mr J not to transfer and it shouldnt have recommended he do 
so if this wasnt suitable for him. If Firm B had advised Mr J against transferring then Im not 
persuaded he would have gone ahead anyway based on any discussions he had with SKA. 
Instead I think its likely he would have trusted Firm Bs expert advice. I say this because    
Mr J says he had limited investment experience. And because I think he was clearly made 
aware SKA didnt have permissions to advise him on this when Firm B did, as specialists in 
the field. I think this wouldve added credibility and weight to the advice given by Firm B, so         
I dont think Mr J wouldve acted against it. This means I think Firm B was responsible for 
giving advice that enabled the transfer and so if that advice was unsuitable, Mr Js losses 
flow from this.In summary, Im satisfied it was Firm Bs actions, independently of SKAs, that ultimately 
caused Mr J to transfer. So, I dont think SKA is responsible for Mr Js alleged losses. For 
this reason, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman