DRN-3115851
The complaint
Mr Y is complaining about James Hallam Limited (JHL). He says JHL should have found him 
the cheapest home insurance policy available  but instead he believes JHL has misled him 
into paying more for his insurance than necessary over many years.
 
What happened
JHL is an insurance intermediary (or broker). It doesnt actually insure Mr Y, but instead 
reviews the available policies and recommends one it thinks suitable for Mr Y.
In early 2020 JHL sent Mr Y a review of his home insurance. It suggested Mr Y consider 
moving his insurance to insurer A as similar cover was available at a lower price than his 
current insurer was willing to continue cover on.
JHL also said that Mr A might find insurance at a lower price if he wanted to shop around. 
He did that, and found a policy  also with insurer A  that cost £100 less than JHL had 
found.
Mr Y complained, but JHL said it had reviewed the market on the terms it had arranged with 
Mr Y  and that it took factors other than price into consideration when recommending a 
policy. Mr Y then brought his complaint to us for review.
Our investigator didnt think JHL had done anything wrong. She pointed out that JHL had 
done as it said it would, and had reminded Mr Y he might find cheaper cover himself if he 
chose to shop around. And she noted that insurer A only sold the cheaper policy direct to 
customers  so it wasnt likely JHL would be able to recommend that particular policy.
Mr Y doesnt argue that JHL has acted within the terms of his arrangement with them. But he 
thinks the way they conduct their business is immoral and the regulator should do more to 
control brokers activities to stop them profiting from their customers the way he believes 
they do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
I dont think I need to go into much detail here about what happened, as there isnt any 
argument about this. I agree with our investigator when she said JHL had acted as it said it 
would in the terms it agreed with Mr Y. In summary, that was that it would review the market 
to see what polices were available and suitable for Mr Y. It didnt promise to search for the 
cheapest cover available  but instead took a number of factors into account, such as the 
detail of the policy, the policy limits and service levels amongst other things.
It told Mr Y which insurers it had looked and suggested one that gave similar (and better at 
some points) cover than he already had, and that was cheaper than staying where he was.
That seems to me to be a reasonable thing to do.
Theres always the possibility that a customer conducting his own searches might find 
something cheaper still  especially if they can look at policies not available through a 
broker. Thats one of the reasons why brokers remind their customers that they might find 
cheaper cover by shopping around, as Mr Y did. Im also aware that insurer A has explained 
that the policy was only available direct to customers and pointed out some differences 
between the two policies. That may explain some of the difference in cost as they arent 
identical.
I do understand that Mr Y is angry about what JHL did  or didnt do. But I cant ask JHL to 
change the way it does business, as thats a commercial decision its entitled to make. I dont 
think JHL hid behind the small print as Mr Y does, as I think it explained what it had done 
clearly. I cant punish JHL for doing what it said it would.  
Mr Y may think that the way brokers do business is wrong, but I can only look at what 
happened in this particular complaint. It would be for the industry regulator to consider any 
broader action if it thought that was appropriate. Mr Y can of course talk to the regulator if he 
so wishes, but Im afraid that doesnt affect this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman