DRN-2669434
The complaint
Mr J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE paid a claim to a third party (TP) under his 
motor insurance policy when the TPs car wasnt taxed and didnt have an MOT. Hes also 
unhappy with the quote they used to assess the claim.
The complaint has been responded to by the complaint handler (CH) who was also 
appointed by Great Lakes to consider the claim. 
What happened
Mr Js wife, who is covered under his motor insurance policy, reversed into another vehicle 
which was parked. A claim was made for the damage to the other car. Great Lakes 
appointed another company to act as the claims handler. The owner of the other vehicle 
provided a quote to repair the damage. One of the CHs engineers reviewed this quote and 
found it to be less than what they considered to be a reasonable repair cost. So Great Lakes 
offered to pay the amount of the quote to the TP. 
Mr J found out the TPs car didnt have valid tax or an MOT. So, he complained to Great 
Lakes. He said the CH should report the TP to their insurer for having no tax or MOT. The 
CH responded on Great Lakes behalf. It said that the TP was still entitled to claim for the 
damage caused, regardless of whether the car had valid tax or an MOT. But they werent 
entitled to claim for any kind of courtesy or hire car, and they hadnt. So, it maintained it was 
right for it to offer to pay the claim.
Mr J also said he believed the quote for repair was fraudulent as he couldnt find any record 
of the business who had provided it. The CH said it had managed to find an address for the 
business and it appeared to be a small business run from a home address. It said that as the 
quote was lower than its engineer had estimated it would cost to carry out the repairs, a cash 
settlement for the lower amount was fair.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into things. He explained that it wasnt for us to compel Great Lakes to tell the other 
insurer that the vehicle had been untaxed and had no MOT. He also explained that it wasnt 
disputed that Mr Js wife had caused the damage to the TPs car. So, the CH had correctly 
applied the policy terms and settled the claim. He thought the CH was entitled to rely upon 
the quote provided and, as it was under the engineers opinion of what a reasonable repair 
amount would be, the amount it had offered as a cash settlement was fair.
Mr J disagreed. He maintained that the quote provided by the TP was fraudulent and that 
Great Lakes had a duty inform the TPs insurer that the vehicle was being used without tax 
or an MOT. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So, its be passed to me to 
consider and issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as our 
investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mr Js wife caused the damage to the TPs car. Whilst driving without tax 
and insurance may have invalidated the TPs insurance, they werent claiming on their own 
policy. They were claiming on Mr Js policy. And having no tax or MOT on their car doesnt 
mean they are unable to make a claim for damage caused whilst the car wasnt being driven. 
So, Im satisfied the CH was entitled to consider the claim regardless of the tax or MOT 
status of the TPs car. Its also worth noting that the TP confirmed to the CH that the tax had 
only recently expired and the car had been booked in for an MOT soon after the accident, 
which it subsequently passed. 
Moving on to the quote provided by the TP and the amount claimed. Mr J is adamant that 
the quote provided by the TP is fraudulent. However, the CH has provided evidence that this 
was a small company operated from a home address. I havent seen enough to persuade 
me this was a fraudulent quote. 
The amount of the quote provided was lower than the engineer believed the damage would 
cost to repair. So, Im satisfied it was fair for the CH to offer to pay this amount as a cash 
settlement.
I know Mr J thinks Great Lakes or the CH should report the TP to their insurer for having no 
tax or MOT. He thinks that their business practice should be changed. As our investigator 
has said, its not for us to tell a business how to run its day to day operations. Instead, we 
look into individual complaints and put things right when we think a mistake has occurred. 
The CH has explained it will report the claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  a 
database that is cross referenced by insurers when considering covers for customers. But I 
agree that there is no requirement for it to contact the TPs insurer directly about the lack of 
tax or MOT.
I understand Mr J feels very strongly about this matter. But I dont think Great Lakes or the 
CH has done anything wrong in considering and handling this claim. So, Im not going to ask 
it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman