The complaint
Mr J has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (the AA) hasnt 
offered him enough for his car under his motor insurance policy after it was stolen.
What happened
Mr J claimed on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. The AA initially valued 
his car at £49,900. Mr J disagreed with that valuation and after it was reviewed the AA 
increased it to £51,410.
Mr J did his own research and was unable to replace his car for a like for like one for the 
amount the AA had offered. Mr Js motor insurance documentation also had the value of his 
car at £55,000. So Mr J feels the AA should place a higher valuation on the car.
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint. He checked the available trade guides and 
found the offer made by the AA was reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy provided cover for up to the market value of his car. The AA has based its 
valuation on motor trade guides.
Its not the role of our service to provide an exact valuation for a car. Instead we look at 
the trade guides to see if the insurer has given a fair and reasonable valuation thats in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. We find the guides persuasive as theyre based 
on nationwide research of sales prices. We do consider other information, such as adverts, 
but generally find the guides more persuasive as they take account of negotiation 
from advertised prices. The guides also take account of the cars mileage and optional 
extras.
Our investigator consulted the available trade guides which gave the following valuations for 
Mr Js car; Glasses £47,160, CAP £50,423 and Cazana £56,486.
I appreciate that Mr J has gone to the effort of doing his own research, including finding 
other similar vehicles available on dealer forecourts that are offered for sale at a higher 
price. But Im more persuaded by the value given by the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research and take account of negotiation.
DRN-1294148As both valuations placed on the car by the AA fell between those found in the guides, I think 
the final offer made by the AA was fair and reasonable.
Mr J has gone on to say that his policy documents show the value of his car was £55,000, so 
he would expect to receive this amount in response to his claim. But the value of a car 
changes over time and the value given on the policy is usually an estimation provided by the 
policy holder and is not always reflective of the market value that the policy covers.
With the above in mind I think the AA valued Mr Js car fairly, so Im not going to ask it to 
increase its offer.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman