DRN-1999849
The complaint
Mr B complained because Monzo Bank Ltd refused to refund him for payments which he 
said he hadnt authorised from his account, and it then closed his account. 
Mr B is a student and says he wants £1,259 paid back to him, because he cant pay his rent.
What happened
On 3 May 2019, Monzo contacted Mr B, because it had been notified that someone had paid 
£650 to Mr Bs account by mistake the previous day. But Mr B had spent the £650 at a 
betting company, within two minutes of it being credited. 
Monzo sent a text message asking Mr B to pay in £650 to his account, so it could return the 
money to the sender. But Mr B replied that it was a gift from God and refused to pay it 
back.
On 6 July 2019, Mr B contacted Monzo, saying he didnt recognise the 2 May £650 outgoing 
transaction to the betting company. 
Monzo reminded Mr B about the discussion in May, when Mr B had refused to return the 
£650. It asked him to send a screenshot of his betting company account. Mr B did this, and it 
showed that the betting company had suspended Mr Bs account. Mr B told Monzo that this 
was because hed told the betting company that someone else had used money to bet on his 
account. Mr B sent Monzo a copy of a letter from the betting company. In that letter, the 
betting company said that its security team couldnt find any evidence of anyone 
unauthorised accessing Mr Bs account. It suggested that Mr B should contact the police.
On 4 January 2020, Mr B contacted Monzo again. He said that a couple of months ago £650 
had been taken out of his account. Mr B said someone else had made transactions on his 
account totalling £609. There were two bank transfer payments that day, one for £259 and 
one for £350.
Monzo blocked Mr Bs card, and arranged for a new card, new PIN, and also told him to 
change his password. It investigated.
The next day, Monzo wrote to Mr B and said it couldnt treat any of the £650, £259 or £350 
payments as fraudulent. It told him it didnt believe theyd been carried out by a third party. 
And it said it had decided to close Mr Bs account with one weeks notice, as it could do 
under the terms and conditions of his account. Mr Bs account was closed on 13 January.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he wanted £1,259 back from 
Monzo, and he hadnt been able to pay his student rent. Mr B said that he usually got a 
notification before money went out of his Monzo account and he didnt for the three disputed 
transactions. Mr B said hed always kept his card in his wallet, which was kept in his locked 
student room. Mr B said no-one else knew his PIN, or phone passcode, or PIN for the app, 
and no-one else had access to his phone. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She looked at the evidence and considered 
that Mr B had carried out the transactions himself.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that hed complained about the first transaction, the £650, in 2019 
and Monzo hadnt looked at his complaint until hed complained about the two other 
payments. Mr B said he was very upset and had suffered at university because of the 
shortage of money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations and authentication
The relevant regulations for Mr Bs disputed transactions are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show 
the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part. Here:
- the £650 payment to the betting company on 2 May 2019 was a card payment, 
authorised by a 3D secure PIN. The PIN was sent to Mr Bs phone, and used on the 
betting companys website to authorise the payment;
- the two bank transfers on 4 January 2020 were authorised by the correct PIN being 
entered onto Mr Bs phone. 
So I find that all three payments were authenticated.
Whether Mr B authorised the payments 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Payment on 2 May 2019 
The payment on 2 May 2019 for £650 to Mr Bs betting account was made two minutes after 
the £650 credit, which Monzo was later told had been sent by mistake to Mr B. Mr B said no-
one had access to his phone or knew his PIN, and his card was also kept secure. I consider 
its very unlikely that anyone other than Mr B would have known about the incoming £650 
two minutes earlier, and would have had access to the relevant security information to enter 
correctly to authorise the payment.
I also note that when Mr B later told the betting company there had been unauthorised 
activity on his account, the betting company didnt agree and suspended his account. That 
was on 5 May, but Mr B didnt contact Monzo about the payment until 6 July, which is 
surprising if he genuinely believed the payment had been unauthorised. 
I also consider its unlikely someone else would transfer money into Mr Bs betting company 
account, because they wouldnt be able to access any winnings.
Taking these factors into account, I believe Mr B authorised the payment himself.Payments on 4 January 2020
There are 18 transactions on Mr Bs Monzo account on 4 January between 9.18am and 
11.13pm. These include receipt of his student loan, transfers to and from the savings pot 
facility that formed part of his Monzo account, and other payments. The two disputed faster 
payment bank transfers took place in between all these other activities. For example, there 
was a £259 transfer from Mr Bs Monzo savings pot into his account at 9.49pm, and within 
the same minute there was the bank transfer out for £259. There were then other, 
undisputed transactions.
Then at 10.20pm there was another  transfer in from Mr Bs savings pot followed 
immediately by the other disputed debit, for £350. Ten minutes later there were other 
undisputed transactions.
If anyone else carried out these transactions, theyd have to have had access to Mr Bs 
phone, which was the only device ever registered to Mr Bs Monzo account. And theyd have 
had to have known his security details, which Mr B said he kept secure. And, given the 
timing of the many other undisputed transactions that day, any fraudster who had managed 
to obtain Mr Bs phone and security details would also have had to return Mr Bs phone, 
without his knowledge, immediately after the first disputed payment, return it immediately, 
then steal it again to do the second disputed payment, and return it again immediately. I find 
that this is all most unlikely. So I consider Mr B authorised both faster payment transactions 
himself. 
Mr Bs complaint that Monzo didnt reply quickly enough about the May 2019 payment 
Mr B complained to Monzo about the 2 May 2019 transaction on 6 July. Its surprising he 
didnt complain earlier, especially because Monzo had contacted him the day after the 
disputed payment, asking him to return the money which shouldnt have gone to Mr B. It 
would seem natural to dispute it at the point they were discussing the corresponding 
incoming £650 payment.
But I do accept that Monzo didnt reply to Mr Bs 6 July complaint until after Mr B disputed 
the 4 January payments. Thats outside the normal 56 day timescale for replying to 
complaints. But the fact that Monzo should have replied more quickly to the first complaint, 
doesnt change the outcome - that Mr B had authorised the payments himself. In practice 
what the delay meant was that Mr Bs Monzo account was closed later than it might 
otherwise have been. And Monzo was entitled to close Mr Bs account in these 
circumstances under the terms and conditions of the account.
So I dont consider there was any disadvantage to Mr B as a result of Monzos delay in 
dealing with the first complaint.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that Mr B authorised all three of the disputed 
transactions himself, and didnt suffer any disadvantage by Monzos failure to investigate the 
first complaint within the set timescales. So I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman