DRN-2933161
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr T payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr T have said the Nationwide made them believe they had to take PPI in order to 
get the mortgage. That is to say, they werent told that the PPI was separate from the 
mortgage and optional. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. It is a long-established principle of fairness that, where someone 
has said another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be 
reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone 
prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was a long time ago. And, although 
I accept that Mrs and Mr T are sure they were misled into thinking they had no choice, it 
wouldnt be fair to rely only on what they now remember  although not impossible, it would 
be surprising if someone could remember all the detail of something so long ago. And, in 
fact, Mrs and Mr T told us they had no clear memory of the details of how the mortgage and 
the associated PPI was arranged as it was some 20 years ago; and it seem that, until told 
about it by Nationwide recently, they hadnt remembered that they had made a claim on the 
PPI in 2007. So I do think it wouldnt be fair to uphold this complaint on this point, unless 
there was better supporting evidence to back up what they now remember. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
In particular, Ive looked at whether the PPI was recommended and whether Nationwide 
are likely to have given enough information for Mrs and Mr T to make an informed choice. 
Mrs and Mr T are saying that Nationwide advised them to take the PPI. In the insurance 
world, an advised or recommended sale means the seller assessed the customers 
circumstances and then recommended a product that was a good fit for the customers 
needs. If it then turned out the seller recommended something that wasnt suitable, that 
would usually be classed a mis-sale. 
On balance I think it more likely than not that Nationwide didnt make such a 
recommendation about the PPI.  This is based on what we know of Nationwides usual 
processes at the time, based on the hundreds of cases weve looked into. But, in fact, the 
question doesnt make a difference to my view of the case. This is because, even if 
Nationwide had recommended the PPI, I think it would have been a suitable 
recommendation. I say this because:
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr T (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr T received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr T would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and their other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr T in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr T couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr T would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr T to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they understood they had a choice  
which I know they firmly believe they were not given). 
If Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, it still had to give Mrs and Mr T enough 
information. And, because of the time that has passed, its hard to know how well Nationwide 
did explain the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr T 
took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater than Mr Ts sick pay and 
savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So, although its not possible to be certain, in 
my view its unlikely that fuller information would have made a difference.
Overall I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman