DRN-3632084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
increased their home insurance premiums over the period of cover.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had a Lloyds home insurance policy, originally taken out in February 2004. In 
February 2021, their circumstances changed so they contacted Lloyds to discuss their cover. 
Following these discussions, they cancelled their policy and switched insurer. Theyre 
unhappy that:
The Lloyds policy wasnt suitable for them in the first place; and
Lloyds unfairly increased their premiums over the period of cover.
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs O that it couldnt investigate the sale of their policy given how much 
time had passed since then. It also said their premiums were calculated fairly, and theyd 
been able to discuss their cover at each renewal  or switch to another insurer  but hadnt 
done so.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with this and brought their complaint to us. They want Lloyds to 
refund at least part of their annual premiums because they believe they were paying too 
much for their insurance.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He explained this 
services approach to this type of complaint, and that, in his opinion, Mr and Mrs O should be 
considered inert customers from their policy renewal in 2014 onwards. He thought Lloyds 
should refund part of their premiums from 2014 to 2020 and set out how he thought this 
should be calculated.
Lloyds disagreed with our investigator and questioned his redress calculation, so the case 
was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents customers 
from being identified. The circumstances of Mr and Mrs O  in particular, the cover they 
believed they had and why they decided to cancel their policy  are well known to both 
parties so Im not going to set them out here. If Im vague about them its to keep Mr and Mrs 
O from being identified, not because Ive ignored them or think them irrelevant.
Second, Mr and Mrs Os complaint that the policy was unsuitable was considered under a 
separate complaint to this service. My decision is only about their premium increases.
The General Conditions section of Mr and Mrs Os policy booklet (page 55) covers renewal: 
If we offer to renew your policy automatically, you give us permission to do so on the basis 
of the renewal premium and policy conditions, details of which we will send you before the 
renewal date. But, while the policy term allows Lloyds to renew the policy automatically, the 
important question for me is whether it was fair for Lloyds to rely on this term.
When a customer hasnt spoken to their insurer after receiving their renewal quotes for more 
than four years, we think its fair to say they were inert. Put another way, at that point we 
think an insurer ought to have been aware the customer wasnt engaging with it. 
Lloyds told us: Until 2021 when the customer called to cancel the policy, we received no 
contact from them to discuss the price of their policy. So, in this case, I think its fair to say 
Mr and Mrs O stopped engaging with Lloyds in 2009. There were no changes in cover and 
Lloyds hasnt explained the reason for the premium increases. I think that at some point after 
this, the premium increases became unfair.
Lloyds has told us about the discount it applies to new policies and how the policy premium 
increases over time as this is recouped. Generally, we think this is fair. But once the price of 
the policy has increased beyond the new business price plus initial discount, wed expect 
Lloyds to tell us whats caused this. In Mr and Mrs Os case, this point was reached in 2014.
Lloyds introduced a target pricing model in 2016. This is effectively a cap on the premium 
Lloyds will charge and it can apply this model retrospectively to 2014. The target price and 
how its calculated is commercially sensitive so I cant share this with Mr and Mrs O. But its 
based on what Lloyds feels it needs to charge to be able to cover its risk, operating costs, 
and agreed profit margins. The model shows if Lloyds is applying a consistent pricing 
approach to all its customers and isnt taking advantage of their lack of engagement.
What that means is that Lloyds can show if the premiums it charged customers from 2014 
was within this target pricing range. If the customer didnt pay any more than the target price, 
wed say the premium was fair. Lloyds has said it will refund anything paid above the target 
price if the customer was vulnerable or there were barriers preventing them from shopping 
around. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Os premiums against Lloyds target pricing from 2014 onwards. 
This shows:
Their premiums were above the target price in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. 
Their premium was below the target price in 2020.
They cancelled the policy before renewing in 2021.
Mr O explained that there was a specific risk he needed cover for. He believed his Lloyds 
policy covered this and, based on his experience when he originally searched for this 
specific cover, didnt think it was insurance he could easily find elsewhere. It was only when 
he called Lloyds to remove this specific cover in 2021 that he discovered this wasnt a risk 
covered by his policy. In the circumstances, I understand why Mr and Mrs O hadnt engaged 
with Lloyds about their policy renewals and hadnt shopped around to try to find cheaper 
cover elsewhere.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund the difference between the 
premiums paid by Mr and Mrs O and the target price for the years 2015 to 2019, plus 
interest.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to:
Refund the difference between Mr and Mrs Os premiums and the target price for 
2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. This comes to £1,324.60.
Add interest to these amounts at 8% simple per year from the date each premium 
was paid to the date of settlement*.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Lloyds must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr 
and Mrs O ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman