DRN-2632413
The complaint
Mr P complains that BISL Limited unfairly charged him the full cost of his car insurance 
policy when it cancelled it before the full term.
BISL Limited sell and administer insurance on behalf of RAC Insurance from its panel of 
insurers. All references to BISL will include RAC Insurance.
What happened
Mr P arranged car insurance through BISL which initially started on 17 May 2019. When 
Mr P changed his car in early 2020, his policy was underwritten by a new insurer and a new 
annual policy was issued on 15 February of that year. Prior to the new policy being 
purchased, a claim was made against Mr Ps policy in July 2019  this claim was included 
within the new policy documents. Another claim was made in late February 2020, which was 
after the policy start date.
In October 2020 Mr P contacted BISL to request a change of address on his policy. But the 
change wasnt acceptable to Mr Ps insurer. In line with the policy terms, BISL told Mr P it 
would cancel his policy and offer him alternative cover from one its panel of insurers. Mr P 
was unhappy with the higher premiums BISL offered so he didnt take out a further policy 
with it. BISL told Mr P that because he had a claim during the policy term, he was liable to 
pay the full cost of the policy so a further £126 was due. When Mr P cancelled the direct 
debit before this payment was collected, he was charged a £20 late payment fee.
Mr P complained. He said he didnt think it was fair that he was liable to pay the full cost of 
the policy when it was cancelled by BISL.
BISL rejected Mr P's complaint. It said it had tried to obtain alternative cover for Mr P but this 
was unacceptable to him. BISL said that the policy made it clear it cant guarantee that any 
changes that are requested by the policyholder during the agreed policy term, would be 
acceptable to the insurer. And as Mr P had made a claim during the term of the policy the full 
amount was due.
Our investigator didn't recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she didn't think BISL 
was responsible for the insurers decision. And the terms of the policy made it clear that if a 
claim is made, the full cost of the policy is payable.
Mr P disagreed. He made a number of points including:
BISL should not be able to profit from cancelling his policy early regardless of what 
the policy terms say;
BISL were at fault for not entering his address on its database  this caused the 
insurer to decline Mr Ps request;
Mr P can only remember having one claim on the policy in February 2020; 
The quotes BISL provided to Mr P were too expensive;
Mr P was unable to access the policy documents during the complaints process and 
wasnt sent a copy with the final response;
His contract was with RAC Insurance;
Theres a conflict of interest between the insurers and their brokers which 
encourages them to act against the consumers interests.
Our investigator provided Mr P with a detailed response to his points. But it didnt change her 
view. So Mr P asked for an ombudsman's decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would point out that Mr P has made numerous points in support of his complaint. We are an 
informal service and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Ive looked 
at, and taken into account, everything thats been sent to us. Im satisfied Ive captured the 
essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every individual point in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ps main complaint is about the charges BISL have asked him to pay. I can see that hed 
made at least one claim under the policy during the term of the policy on 15 February 2020. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps policy and it says on page 11 under the heading Cancellation fee:
If either you or We [BISL] cancel more than 14 days after receiving your policy 
documentation We will charge you a fee of £55 plus the cost for the period of cover you have 
benefitted from. This is providing no claims have been made. If a claim has been made, or 
there has been an incident which may lead to a claim, no refund will be given and all 
premiums will be due.
Mr P says as it wasnt his fault the insurer no longer wants to offer him insurance, he 
shouldnt have to pay the full cost of the policy. But similarly I dont think its BISLs fault. This 
was the insurers decision and I dont think the broker (BISL) can be held responsible for 
that. The policy terms make it clear regardless of who cancels, if a claim is made then all 
premiums become due. Mr P doesnt dispute he made a claim in February 2020, which was 
during the term of the policy. So in light of the terms of the policy and Mr Ps particular 
circumstances, I dont think BISL have acted unfairly by asking him to meet the full cost of 
the policy.
I also dont think BISL did anything wrong when it charged Mr P a late payment fee when he 
didn't pay the amounts due. Mr P says he was told by a BISL agent during a call that he 
should cancel his direct debit. Ive listened to the call in question and Im satisfied he wasnt 
advised to do this by the agent. I know Mr P thinks he shouldve been told during this call 
about the potential for a late payment fee. But I dont think that it caused him any detriment, 
as he did owe the money under the policy and this was clearly set out in the policy terms. So 
BISL were entitled to pursue it if he didnt pay the sums due.
Mr P says that BISL failed to update its address database which affected the underwriting 
decision. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence that this, on its own, or if at all, affected the 
underwriting of his policy as this decision is based on a number of factors. And as Ive said, if 
Mr P has a complaint about the underwriting decision, this will need to be addressed by the 
insurer. I can see that BISL did try to arrange alternative cover for Mr P but he didn't want to 
accept any of its quotes. Of course its for Mr P to choose the best policy to suit his particular 
circumstances, but I think BISL has acted fairly in this regard.I note Mr P is unhappy about the BISL complaints process. In particular, he didnt have 
access to the policy documents once it was cancelled, so he couldnt refer back to these 
when he made his complaint. He says BISL should have provided him with a copy when it 
responded to his complaint. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr P but as the investigator 
has said, if he needed a copy of the policy document, this is something he could have 
requested from BISL. 
I take on board what Mr P says about who he signed his contract with. But I think the policy 
made it reasonably clear who arranges and administers the policy and who the insurer was. 
These are usual arrangements in insurance contracts. So whilst I can understand why Mr P 
may find this frustrating, I dont think BISL misled him about its involvement with his policy. 
Ive noted Mr Ps concerns about potential conflicts of interest and structural problems with 
having more than one business involved in an insurance contract. These wider issues are 
ones for regulators to address. Our service settles disputes on an individual basis. And this 
is why my decision has concentrated on the particular facts of Mr Ps case.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman