DRN-2705795
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs A took out a PPI policy alongside a store card she applied for in May 1999.
The policy cost no more that £1 per £100 of Mrs As outstanding monthly statement balance. 
And if she was too ill to work or was made involuntarily redundant, it wouldve paid off 15% 
of that balance until the end date, unless the balance was paid in full or Mrs A went back to 
work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Mrs A, through her representative, didnt 
agree, so her complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs A that the policy was optional and Mrs A had to agree to PPI 
being added to her account. Ive seen the credit card application Mrs A signed. She signed 
separately, next to the box asking if she wanted PPI, to say she wanted it. Other optional 
products had been crossed out. So, I think it likely that PPI was added because Mrs A said 
she wanted it at the time her credit card was taken out and she knew she was agreeing to 
take out optional insurance.
From what Ive seen from dealing with a number of these cases, and from what both AXA 
and Mrs A have said, I think it unlikely that AXA gave Mrs A any advice about PPI at the time 
of sale. So, it did not have to consider whether the policy was suitable for her. But, it did still 
have to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make 
an informed choice and decide whether she wanted to purchase PPI.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs A wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But, I cant see that Mrs A has lost out because of this. She was eligible to take out the PPI. 
She wasnt affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the policy that might have 
made it inappropriate for her. 
Mrs A was working at the time and eligible to get sick pay from her employer. She said her 
parents and husband couldve also helped out with her repayments, if necessary. I havent 
placed much weight on this help from her family. I do accept that they may have wanted to 
help out, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes. Further the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of her employer benefits and potentially for longer than they 
wouldve covered her for. I cant see that the policy was unaffordable.
So, I cant see that having better information about the policy wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mrs As compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman