DRN-3443431
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wouldnt offer him life 
assurance cover. He also complains about the way he was spoken to over the telephone by 
Avivas agents.
For the purposes of this complaint Mr D has been represented by a family member, but for 
ease in this decision Ill refer to their comments as those of Mr D.
What happened
Mr D had a 15-year level term assurance policy with a sum assured of £14,243 which started 
in March 2006 and was due to end in March 2021. The monthly premium cost for this policy 
was £10.
In December 2020 Mr D phoned Aviva to ask if he could renew the policy. Aviva told Mr D 
that this wasnt possible but that it could provide a quote for a new policy. Mr D obtained a 
quote and began an application for a new policy. He opted to apply for a 10-year level term 
life assurance policy with a sum assured of £10,000. This had an initial estimated monthly 
premium cost of around £15.
The first health question the call handler asked was: 
Are you undergoing or awaiting any of the following, any medical or surgical consultation or 
follow up, awaiting any tests or investigations or the results of any tests or investigations?
And whilst Mr D initially said he was not; shortly after he told the call handler that he was 
waiting for a hospital appointment to rectify an arrythmia. He said he was waiting for an 
appointment to have a stent fitted which was a two-hour procedure. Based on this, the call 
handler told Mr D this information would have to be referred to Avivas underwriters for 
consideration before a full application was made. She explained Aviva would normally wait 
until a surgical procedure was complete before offering cover. Mr D maintained the 
procedure wasnt surgery. It was agreed Aviva would call Mr D back.
Later that day Aviva phoned Mr D and explained its underwriters wouldnt consider Mr Ds 
application further until his stent had been fitted. 
Mr D was unhappy with this and complained. He then brought his concerns to our service.
Mr D told us that Aviva was very rude on the phone, he was treated like a criminal and made 
to feel like he was going to die. Mr D felt it was unfair Aviva wouldnt let him renew a policy 
hed been paying into for years and that it was unreasonable the new policy was going to 
cost double the price. As a resolution to the complaint he wanted the premiums paid into the 
policy to be returned and compensation for the distress caused. He also provided evidence 
to show he hadnt needed the stent to be fitted in the end and his medication had simply 
been adjusted. And he explained hed been able to find cover elsewhere since.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They were of the view the 
call handler was polite and professional. They also said Aviva was correct in advising the 
policy couldnt be renewed and said Aviva was allowed to refuse to offer a new policy until 
Mr Ds outstanding medical procedure was completed.
Mr D didnt agree. He then said he never told Aviva he wanted to keep the original policy and 
maintained that he was spoken to in an unprofessional manner. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I can appreciate it must have been disappointing for Mr D not to be able to obtain the cover 
he wanted. However, having carefully considered the evidence Im satisfied Aviva hasnt 
done anything wrong here  Ill explain why. 
Mr Ds policy was a fixed term assurance policy, which means it was taken out for a set 
period of time at an agreed monthly premium cost. Whilst some policies of this nature can 
have options agreed at the outset to enable consumers to extend or increase cover if 
needed, Mr Ds policy didnt include such options. So, Aviva was correct in advising Mr D 
that this policy couldnt be renewed.
Im satisfied Aviva then tried to assist Mr D in obtaining the cover he wanted by offering to 
provide a new quote. Whilst I appreciate the monthly premium cost for the same level of 
cover was higher, this is not in itself unreasonable. As outlined above, this wasnt a renewal 
of the same policy, it was an offer of entirely new cover. Mr Ds original policy was taken out 
in 2006 and his premium costs would have been set then. The new policy Mr D was quoted 
for would be based on his age 14 years later, so its not surprising it was more expensive as 
the risk associated with life assurance increases with age.
I have carefully listened to the conversation Aviva had with Mr D taking into consideration all 
of the concerns Mr D raised. Having done so Im unable to agree that Aviva acted 
unreasonably. I thought the call handler was professional. She spoke in a clear, calm 
manner and thanked Mr D for the answers he gave. She asked the questions she was 
required to in order to set up the policy and was clear about what she would do next and 
why. 
I can hear that during the call there were points where Mr D didnt want to have to run 
through all of the questions being asked given how small the policy was. He explained he 
would rather just be honest with the call handler about his medical issues generally. 
In response, the call handler explained that she wasnt able to proceed in this way. Whilst I 
recognise Mr D may have found this frustrating, I think the call handlers approach was 
reasonable  insurers have set questions they require their call handlers to ask and certain 
information they require call handlers to give out. This is to ensure all of the information 
needed is gathered and to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation and regulations 
governing policies such as these. So, Aviva did nothing wrong by following its processes.
At no point during the call did I think the call handler was rude. Whilst Mr D may have felt 
Avivas reaction to his outstanding procedure was disproportionate, I think the call handler 
dealt sensitively with Mr Ds health issues. So, whilst I was sorry to hear that Mr D was left feeling as though he was going to die, I dont think this was due to the way Aviva handled 
this call. 
Moving to the fact Aviva refused to offer Mr D cover, Mr D felt this was unfair. However, as 
this was a new application, Aviva was allowed to assess whether it wanted to offer Mr D a 
policy based on the information about Mr Ds medical history that he provided. I appreciate 
Mr D had been a customer of Avivas for some time but this doesnt mean it was obliged to 
offer him a new policy. Whilst Mr D may feel the risk posed by a stent and his arrythmia was 
minimal, Im satisfied postponing cover was in line with the underwriting criteria Aviva had in 
place at that time. So, I think it was fair for Aviva to decide to await the completion of Mr Ds 
medical procedure before proceeding with the application.
Whilst Mr D has been able to obtain cover elsewhere, as Aviva explained to him over the 
phone, different insurers have different risk appetites. So, this doesnt mean that Avivas 
actions were unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr D has also shown us evidence the stent wasnt needed. But I have to assess 
what Aviva did based on the information it had at that time. And at that time, Mr D told Aviva 
he was awaiting a procedure to have a stent fitted. So, I think its reasonable Aviva relied on 
what he had said. Which means this evidence doesnt change my assessment of Avivas 
actions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman