DRN-4504052
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr K was looking to buy a vehicle and found one he was interested in 
advertised on social media and an online automotive marketplace. He contacted the seller, 
agreed a price and arranged to come and view the vehicle. The seller then had to re-arrange 
due to a bank holiday and, as Mr K couldnt view the vehicle until a week later, they agreed 
he would pay a holding deposit to secure it until then. Mr K then also paid the purchase price 
in two payments before the rescheduled viewing, in order to be able to take the vehicle away 
quickly after the viewing. Ive set out the payments Mr K made below:
Date Details Amount
1 January 2022 1st account details £1,500
7 January 2022 2nd account details £7,197.75
8 January 2022 2nd account details £7,000
Unfortunately, when Mr K arrived at the address hed been given for the seller, the sellers 
business and the vehicle werent there. Mr K then realised hed been the victim of a scam 
and reported it to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated but said it felt Mr K could have done more to protect himself, as he 
hadnt seen the vehicle in person before making the payments, and had ignored warnings it 
had shown him. So it didnt agree to refund the money he had lost. Mr K wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Mr K and Lloyds Bank PLC a provisional decision on 3 November 2023, setting out 
why I was intending to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision 
is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr K fell victim to, in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam and that Mr K had done a number of checks 
to try to satisfy himself that the sale was genuine. But I also think there were a number of 
things about what was happening and what he was told that should have caused him 
significant concern.
From the independent valuations our service has carried out on the vehicle Mr K thought he 
was buying, it appears that the seller was listing it for sale at significantly below market 
value. Even before the discount the seller offered Mr K, the vehicle appears to have been 
listed at just over 50% of the usual market value for a vehicle of the same age, make and 
model. And as Mr K had looked at several websites and says he had seen a number of other 
similar models for sale, I think its reasonable to have expected him to have noticed this and 
to have been concerned that the price the vehicle was being listed at was too good to be 
true.
The seller also asked Mr K to pay firstly half the outstanding balance, and then the full 
remaining balance, before he had seen the vehicle in person. But this isnt how I would 
expect a legitimate vehicle trader to operate, particularly after Mr K had already paid a 
holding deposit to secure the vehicle. And Mr K was also asked to pay into two different 
personal accounts, rather than a business account. But this also isnt how I would expect a 
limited company, as Mr K thought the seller was, to operate  particularly one that was 
supposedly listing a significant number of other vehicles for sale. And so I think these things 
should also have caused Mr K some concern.
The invoices Mr K was sent by the seller also contain a number of spelling and formatting 
errors, which I wouldnt necessarily expect of a professional company and which I think 
should also have caused him some concern.
While Mr K had done some checks into the sale, I think the issues Ive mentioned above 
should have caused him significant concern. And I dont think the information he saw from 
the checks he did should have been enough to overcome those concerns.
So I think Lloyds has established that Mr K made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for belief that they were genuine. And so it has established that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr K all of 
the money he lost.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if Lloyds didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
The first payment Mr K made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount. 
There were a number of payments out of his account in the previous months for similar or larger amounts. And the payment didnt use up all the available balance in the account or 
leave the balance of the account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont think Lloyds ought 
to have identified a scam risk as a result of this first payment.
But the second payment Mr K made was for a much larger amount, and an amount 
significantly larger than any other payment made out of the account in the previous months. 
So I think Lloyds should have identified a scam risk as a result of this second payment, and 
shown Mr K an effective warning before allowing it to go through.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mr K was shown before making the second 
payment, which said:
Pay by card
Its a safer way to pay
If you cant pay by card, its often a scam
Find out how to stay safe from scams on our Fraud Hub
But this warning doesnt give much detail about what this kind of scam could look or feel like, 
or about the consequences of falling victim to a scam. And I dont think it does enough to 
explain what steps someone could take to try to avoid falling victim to a scam. So I dont 
think this warning was specific or impactful enough to be effective in Mr Ks circumstances. 
And so I dont think Lloyds has met its obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Lloyds has established that Mr K made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Lloyds has failed to meet 
its obligations, from the second payment onwards. So I think Mr K is entitled to a refund of 
50% of the second and third payments under the CRM code.
As I think Mr K is entitled to this refund under the CRM code, I think Lloyds should have 
agreed to it when it first assessed his claim. And so I think Lloyds should also pay Mr K 8% 
simple interest on the refund, from the date it initially declined his claim until the date of 
settlement.
Did Lloyds do enough to try to recover the money Mr K lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Lloyds records show it contacted the banks the payments were sent to within a reasonable 
amount of time after it was told about the scam. So it has done what I would expect it to 
have done to try to recover the money Mr K lost.
Unfortunately, only £4.06 was recovered and refunded to Mr K. But as Lloyds has done what 
I would expect, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to do anything further here.
I said Id consider anything further Mr K and Lloyds sent in following the provisional decision, 
provided it was received by the deadline given.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision saying it accepted the outcome, and didnt 
submit any further evidence or arguments.
Mr K replied making a number of further points, including that he didnt think the warning 
Lloyds showed him was clear enough and he thought the amount of money he transferred 
should have triggered a phone call. But I explained in my provisional decision that I already 
didnt think Lloyds had done what wed expect it to  I didnt think the warning Lloyds showed 
him was effective or that it met its obligations under the CRM code. The reason I only 
recommended Lloyds refund 50% of the money Mr K lost was that I also didnt think he had 
a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments.
Mr K also argued that the checks he did into the seller and their company on the 
governments register of limited companies and social media showed their details matched 
what hed been told. He said he had a number of conversations with the seller, who was 
always helpful and able to answer any questions he had. And that he did checks into the 
vehicle, including checking the registration, mileage and outstanding finance.
And I appreciate that he did a number of checks to try to satisfy himself that this was a 
genuine sale. But, as I explained in the provisional decision, I also think the seller asking him 
to pay the full outstanding balance before he had seen the vehicle in person, and asking him 
to send the money to two different personal accounts rather than a business account, should 
have caused him concern. I also think the spelling and formatting errors in the invoices he 
was sent should have caused him some concern.
And I explained that the independent valuations our service had carried out on the vehicle 
showed it was listed at just over 50% of the usual market value for that age, make and 
model. And while Mr K has said he saw, and ultimately bought, another similar vehicle for a 
similar price, he hasnt been able to send us any evidence of this. So I still think the 
valuations our service carried out are likely accurate and I still think the price the vehicle was 
listed at should have caused him significant concern too.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I still think Lloyds 
has established that he made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they 
were genuine.
As neither Mr K nor Lloyds provided any evidence or arguments in relation to any of the 
other conclusions set out in the provisional decision, I still think these conclusions are 
correct, and for the same reasons.
I still think Mr K is entitled to a refund of 50% of the second and third payments he made 
under the CRM code.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to:
Refund Mr K 50% of the second and third payments he made, less the £4.06 already 
refunded  for a total of £7,096.85
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially responded to his claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman