DRN-3818443
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has refused to refund him in full for 
the money he lost as the result of two scams.
Mr O is being represented by a third party but to keep things simple I will refer to Mr O 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr O started talking to a person via an online app. I will call This person A. After 
talking about various interests, A explained her interest in cryptocurrency. As Mr O was 
interested in this type of investment A sent him a link to a platform she was using to invest 
(EXPro).
A helped Mr O with the process of setting up an account with Binance where Mr O 
purchased cryptocurrency before moving it to EXPros wallet to invest in the way A had 
suggested. In a short space of time Mr O was persuaded by A to invest around £35,000.
It turned out Mr O had been the victim of a scam. The EXPro website was no longer 
available, and he lost the entire amount he had invested.
To recover the funds Mr O had lost he searched online for help and found a company called 
Refund Ltd (RL). Mr O bought further cryptocurrency via MoonPay that he forwarded to RL 
in return for its help recovering the money he lost.
Unfortunately, Mr O had fallen victim to a second scam and RL did not provide the service of 
recovering Mr Os lost funds.
Mr O complained to Barclays saying it should have stepped in to prevent the scams from 
taking place. Barclays said it was unable to request a chargeback for the payments Mr O 
had made but agreed to refund him 50% of the money he lost to the scams plus interest. 
Barclays said it could have done more, but Mr O also had a responsibility to protect his own 
money and should have carried out more research on the businesses he was paying before 
parting with his funds, so should share the blame for the loss.
Our Investigator considered Mr Os complaint and thought the outcome offered by Barclays 
was fair so didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr O disagreed, so this complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr O and Barclays sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Barclays 
should refund all the money Mr O has lost because of this scam.
Barclays says it was unable to request a chargeback of the payments Mr O made as part of 
the scams as he had contacted Barclays outside of the timescales allowed.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr O was dealing with EXPro (via A) and RL which were the businesses that instigated the 
scams. But Mr O didnt make the debit card payments to these businesses, he paid separate 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges (Binance and MoonPay). This is important because 
Barclays would only have been able to process chargeback claims against the merchants he 
paid (Binance and MoonPay), not another party (such as EXPro or RL).
The services provided by Binance and MoonPay would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Os payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance and MoonPay 
provided the services that were requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammers  
doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr O paid.
As Mr O was outside of the timescale to request a chargeback, and for the reasons 
explained above it was unlikely a chargeback would have been successful had a request 
been made in time. So, I think its reasonable that Barclays didnt attempt to obtain a refund 
for Mr O via this process.
Mr O has accepted he authorised the payments that were made. So, the starting point here 
is that Mr O is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) 
do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake 
due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
From 3  15 December 2020 Mr O used his debit card to pay Binance, a company he had 
never paid money to before almost £35,000 over 15 separate transactions. Mr O also paid 
around £3,000 to Moonpay that was forwarded on to RL to recover his funds.
Barclays has already accepted that these transactions on Mr Os account were unusual 
considering his normal spending habits and says it should have stepped in which could have 
prevented some of Mr Os loss. As Barclays has already accepted this, I dont need to make 
a finding about whether Barclays should have done more to protect Mr Os money.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
Barclays has refunded Mr O 50% of the amount he lost because of the scam and says Mr O 
should share the responsibility for his loss. It says Mr O didnt do enough to protect his own 
funds.
Mr O says he was in a vulnerable position due to the national pandemic and need for an 
additional income when his was reduced. When he searched EXPro online it appeared at the top of his search results and there were no warnings on the FCA website about the 
business. A even transferred funds into his trading account which built his confidence that 
the business and investment was legitimate.
Ive thought about what both Mr O and Barclays have said. In the circumstances, I do think 
Barclays acted fairly when reducing the compensation it paid Mr O on the basis that he 
should share the blame for what happened.
Mr O accepted information from someone he had never met before or had any dealings with 
to be trustworthy. He also accepted a link to EXPros investment platform sent to him by this 
person to be a legitimate investment opportunity. Mr O then went on to invest a large sum 
with EXPro having carried out what appears to be very limited due diligence of his own.  
I think Mr O should have taken more care before making the payments he did, especially 
when the amounts he was being asked to invest grew over such a short period of time.
I think the offer made by Barclays to refund 50% of Mr Os total loss is reasonable and I 
dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman