DRN-3202624
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr O under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that he 
electronically signed in November 2020. He complained to Moneybarn in May 2021 about 
issues with the car which had first occurred earlier that month. He said a health check had 
identified faults with the car and a garage had quoted £3,666.87 for the required repairs. 
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. It then said that, 
based on the findings of the independent inspection and considering the date that the faults 
first appeared and the mileage covered while the car was in Mr Os possession, it was 
unable to uphold his complaint. It recognised the time that it had taken to provide Mr O with 
a response and paid him £75 compensation. Mr O wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
was unable to conclude that the car had inherent faults and wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr O and she was satisfied that Moneybarn had reviewed his 
complaint fairly and reasonably.
Mr O has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary and amongst other 
things, that:
he doesnt agree with the findings in the inspection report but he doesnt want to pay 
for another inspection as the garage identified faults with the car;
his warranty claim was rejected due to parts that had been installed on the car  but 
he bought the car with those parts on it; and
the contract says that if anything were to go wrong with the car within a six month 
period the dealer would be liable to fix it or replace the faulty part.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr O was about seven years old, had been driven for 
52,582 miles and had a price of £11,040;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the conditional sale agreement doesnt say that Moneybarn is liable to repair any 
faults that develop on the car within six months  its responsible for ensuring that the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O and theres a general 
presumption that, if a fault occurs within the first six months, its for the supplier to 
show that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and, after that, its 
for the customer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time;
Mr O says that the issue with the car first occurred in early May 2021  so more than 
five months after the car was supplied to him  he took the car for a health check and 
faults with the car were diagnosed - a garage then identified faults with the car and 
quoted £3,666.87 for the required repairs;
Mr O complained to Moneybarn about those faults and it arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert  the inspection took place in July 2021 and the 
inspection report recorded the cars mileage as being 56,568  so nearly 4,000 miles 
more than the mileage when the car was supplied to Mr O;
the inspection report says:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the 
vehicle displayed evidence of damage to number 2 piston, below the first 
compression ring, which we consider may have occurred due to detonation, 
as a consequence of fuel and air ratio mixture. However, we would 
recommend that further investigation is carried out.
In our opinion, however, the vehicle would not have been in this condition at 
finance inception.
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that there are faults with the car  those faults 
have been identified by the health check, the garage and the independent expert but 
I need to determine whether those faults were present or developing when the car 
was supplied to Mr O and whether it was of satisfactory quality at that time; 
the car passed an MOT test in November 2020, when it was supplied to Mr O, and its 
mileage was recorded as 52,587;
Mr O was able to drive the car for more than five months before the issues occurred 
and in that time the car was driven for nearly 4,000 miles;
the inspection report has been provided by an independent third party thats used 
widely in the motor industry to provide evidence about motor vehicles and it is 
regularly used by both suppliers and customers  although the inspection was 
arranged by Moneybarn, Im not persuaded that the expert wasnt acting 
independently or that I shouldnt take account of the findings in the report;
the inspection report also says:
We viewed the underside of the vehicle and noted that the catalytic converter 
did appear to be the standard fitment item 
Number 2 piston was inspected and noted to display damage below the first 
compression ring.
The connecting rod was inspected and noted to be intact.The cylinder bores were visually intact.
Cylinder number 1 piston displayed some light pitting to the edges of the 
piston. There was, however, no evidence of any excessive detonation.
We connected our diagnostic equipment and obtained fault codes relating to 
cylinder number 2 misfire.
Reportedly the faults had occurred due to leakage at the turbocharger air 
intake pipe.
the inspection report concluded quite clearly that the faults wouldnt have been 
present when the car was supplied to Mr O and that the catalytic converter appeared 
to be the standard fitting and the connecting rod and cylinder bores were intact;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the faults have been 
caused by incorrect parts that were fitted to the car before it was supplied to Mr O;
although the health check and garage have identified faults with the car, neither has 
provided persuasive evidence to show that the faults would have been present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr O and hes not provided any evidence 
from an independent expert despite being given the opportunity to do so;
I sympathise with Mr O for the issues that hes had with the car and the repair costs 
that he may have to incur but I consider it to be more likely than not that the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him;
Moneybarn has paid £75 compensation to Mr O because of the time that it took to 
respond to him and I consider that its response to his complaint has been fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Moneybarn to allow Mr O 
to reject the car, to pay for it to be repaired, to pay him any further compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman