DRN-2579905
The complaint
Mr B complains as a director of R, a limited company, about HSBC UK Bank Plcs failure to 
honour a cheque R had issued. Mr B also complains about communication issues with 
HSBC. R wants HSBC to explain why the cheque wasnt honoured, why its letters have been 
ignored and an assurance this wont happen again.    
What happened
R holds a business account with HSBC and issued a cheque in July 2020. R was then told 
by the intended payee that HSBC didnt pay the cheque. Mr B complained to HSBC and 
asked why they had refused to pay the cheque even though there were sufficient funds in 
Rs account. Mr B also raised concerns about HSBCs communication. 
HSBC responded and said all payments are subject to fraud checks and may be flagged at 
anytime for additional checks. They said when this happens they will attempt to contact the 
customer to confirm payment details and ensure the payment is genuine. They explained, if 
they are unable to contact the customer for confirmation, then the cheque will be returned as 
part of their fraud prevention measures. They explained Rs cheque flagged for additional 
checks and they did try to contact Mr B, without success, for confirmation of the payment. 
They said, as they werent able to speak with Mr B, the cheque was returned in line with their 
procedures. HSBC apologised for any inconvenience but didnt think there had been any 
error. 
Our investigator looked into things for R and thought HSBC hadnt acted unreasonably in 
returning the cheque. R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Returned cheque
Its important for banks to have fraud prevention systems in place to protect consumers. 
Reducing fraud is a priority for the Financial Conduct Authority so, in order to meet any legal 
and regulatory requirements, its necessary for banks to have appropriate controls and 
systems in place to protect themselves and consumers from fraud. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for HSBC to have fraud prevention systems in place. Ive then looked at 
whether HSBC have applied this process fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. 
   
Ive seen HSBCs Business banking terms and conditions which set out the circumstances 
where they wont make a payment. It says HSBC wont make a payment if they reasonably 
believe theres been a breach of security or misuse of your account, security details or a 
payment device or theres been fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind whether or not 
linked to your account or your relationship with us and its reasonable for us not to make the 
payment as a result. The terms and conditions say, if theres a problem, HSBC will try and 
tell the consumer as soon as possible.
 
HSBC say Rs cheque was flagged for additional checks as the value and activity was out of 
character for the business account. HSBC have provided us with Rs bank statements from 
January 2020 to July 2020. Apart from monthly charges, the statements show only two other 
payments out  one in January and another in July. The payment in July is for £10,000 so, 
taking into account the other activity shown in the statements, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBCs system to have flagged this for additional checks. I note Mr B feels 
the activity on the account isnt relevant given that Rs account had sufficient funds to meet 
the cheque payment. He also says R is entitled to withdraw funds it deems necessary. I 
dont disagree with Mr B that Rs account had sufficient funds or that R is entitled to withdraw 
funds. This doesnt however mean that HSBC should waive their fraud prevention 
processes. A risk of fraud always exists even if an account has sufficient funds to meet a 
cheque payment so its important for a bank to still apply their processes in such cases.
 
I understand it has caused inconvenience to R and to the intended payee in having the 
cheque returned. Its understandable Mr B says hes been caused embarrassment 
particularly as he says the cheque payment was a genuine and legitimate transaction. But, in 
this case, Ive looked at whether HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably. Having a fraud 
prevention system in place is important and necessary for HSBC to protect their consumers. 
While unfortunately this may lead to occasions where legitimate transactions are declined, it 
doesnt mean HSBC have done something wrong. So, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
Communication 
      
Mr B says, on the date the cheque was returned, he received a missed call from HSBC and 
when he called back, he received an automated message saying there was no need to 
return the call. Mr B says he later received a voicemail at 1.30pm asking him to contact 
HSBC by 1.45pm. He called on the number provided and was on hold for 23 minutes after 
which he was cut off. I can see from system notes provided by HSBC they flag an issue at 
10.10am on the day in question and then try to call Mr B at 10.49am, but theres no answer 
and a voicemail message is left. A record is then made on the system at 10.52am to say a 
message has been left with Mr B about the cheque. The note says if Mr B calls back then to 
confirm whether the cheque needs to be paid or returned before 2.00pm. Theres no record 
of a further call before 2.00pm so the cheque is returned.
  
I understand Mr Bs frustration but I cant say HSBC have acted unreasonably. In line with 
the terms and conditions, theyve tried to call Mr B but unfortunately this proved 
unsuccessful. I think theyve acted reasonably in then making a note on the system, in case 
another agent answers Mr Bs call, letting them know the steps which need to be taken. I 
understand it will have been frustrating for Mr B to have been on hold and then been cut off 
after 23 minutes but sometimes demand for a banks service can be high and waiting times 
are often unavoidable. Its not clear how or why Mr Bs call got cut off but I think HSBC have 
acted reasonably in attempting to contact R shortly after their system flagged an issue. 
 
I note Mr B queries why HSBC couldnt have contacted him again after the first attempt or by 
text or email. I fully understand why Mr B feels this wouldve been helpful but my role is to 
consider whether HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And, given 
that theyve tried to call Mr B shortly after they identified an issue, I think they have not only 
acted reasonably but also in line with the terms and conditions.   
Mr B says HSBC ignored his letters. HSBC acknowledge Rs complaint and, having not 
heard back, chaser letters are sent by R in August and September. Mr B says, hes never 
received an explanation for the cheque being returned. I can see HSBC did respond to Rs 
complaint on 29 August and provide an explanation for why the cheque was returned. From 
Mr Bs comments, it doesnt appear this has been received by him. Ive checked the email 
address on HSBCs response and this has been addressed correctly to R. So, I cant say 
there has been an error by HSBC here.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman