DRN-4313763
The complaint
Ms M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt refund money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Ms M says:
Ms M is represented by a third-party claims firm.
In November 2021, Ms M opened an account with Monzo  as she was told it was easier to 
make payments and they were less likely to be questioned.
Ms M was employed as an accountant for several years but had left full time work. She was 
looking for ways to supplement her husbands income. She wanted a source of passive 
income which would enable her to spend time with her young children and renovate the 
family home.
There are two scams for this complaint.
Scam (1):
In October 2021, Ms M was introduced to a Facebook group in which investors advised each 
other of trading opportunities. She was introduced to an investment firm (which I will call A) 
 and saw many posts from other investors as to how much money theyd made.
Ms M messaged A and was told it had been trading for five years. In messages with A, she 
was told that if she invested USD15,000, she would get back that amount plus USD25,000.
Ms M got help from a friend to move funds from her Monzo account to her crypto wallet with 
a payment service provider (which I will call B). The funds were then moved by Ms M from 
B to the investment firm A.
On 4 November 2021, Ms M found that she couldnt move funds from B to A as B couldnt 
verify the account. The scammer A then advised her to use as different app to move funds 
from B to A, which she did. 
Ms M was attracted by the opportunity to make profits and made four payments to her crypto 
wallet with B:
Date Payee Method Amount
3 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - B Faster payment £10
3 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - B Faster payment £100
3 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - B Faster payment £35
4 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - B Faster payment £5,100
Total scam (1) £5,245
On 5 November 2021, Ms M contacted A and said shed not had confirmation that the funds 
had been received. On 9 November 2021, nothing had arrived and she contacted A again. 
On 13 November 2021, she asked to withdraw her profits. The scammer A said she would 
need to pay 20% of her capital as a charge. Ms M said she didnt have the money to do that 
and communications stopped. At that stage, she realised she had been scammed  
alongside others in the Facebook group.
Scam (2):
A few days after scam (1), Ms M was invited to join another Facebook investment group. 
Many of the group had lost money in scam (1) and they shared information about their 
losses. She was introduced by a member of the group to another investment opportunity 
with another company (which I will call C). She was provided with a link to a WhatsApp 
group in which people were sharing stories about how much money theyd made with C. Ms 
M decided to invest again to try to get back some of the money shed lost in scam (1).
She opened an investment account with C and made three payments to a payment service 
provider (D), from where the payments were transferred to C. Three payments were made. 
The last one (£10,000) was made up of £5,000 from Ms M and £5,000 from her brother-in-
law - who was encouraged to do so by the profits he thought Ms M was making.
Date Payee Method Amount
21 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - D Faster payment £1,000
25 November 2021 Payment Service Provider - D Faster payment £1,000
27 April 2022 Payment Service Provider - D Faster payment £10,000
Total scam (2) £12,000
In June 2022, Ms M found she couldnt log onto Cs website anymore. Other members of the 
WhatsApp group found the same happened to them. Ms M realised shed been scammed 
again.
Ms M says shes now struggling to pay bills because of her losses. She had had to borrow 
money from her family  which needs to be repaid. She is still struggling to come to terms 
with what happened  she considered herself a clever an educated person and now doubts 
her own judgements. She told us she sold the family home to recoup some of the losses.
Ms M says Monzo shouldve done more to protect her. She made a number of payments to 
two new beneficiaries. Firstly  a series of payments in less than a month; and then paid 
£10,000 in one transaction. If Monzo had contacted her, she wouldve thought twice about 
making the payments. She said all the money should be refunded, plus compensation of 
£500.What Monzo said:
Monzo said:
- the payments were made to Ms Ms own account  her crypto wallet. She then made 
payments to the scam investment companies. So  its down to the digital wallet 
providers to consider refunding the money.
- The payments were authorised by Ms M and executed by Monzo in accordance with 
her instructions.
- Monzo provided scam warnings on its website.
- Monzo provided tailored warnings regarding the payments of £100 on 3 November 
2021 and £1,000 on 19 November 2021, but Ms M still went ahead.
- Ms M didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on the two scam websites.
- Ms M invested in the second scam shortly after the first one  and didnt exercise 
caution in doing that.
- Several websites indicated that Facebook is susceptible to crypto scams. The two 
investment companies concerned had several reports about them  stating they were 
a scam.
- Ms Ms letter of complaint gives little detail of what happened with the second scam.
- The size of the payments wasnt unusual, and they were low value.
Our investigation so far:
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the two larger payments of £5,100 
and £10,000 shouldve been stopped by Monzo pending further questions of Ms M. But 
having said that, he didnt think intervention wouldve made any difference and Ms M 
wouldve gone ahead anyway. So  he said Monzo didnt need to refund any money.
Ms M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She said:
- The payees indicated the payments were connected to suspicious investments. 
- The real company (A) was a genuine trading company unrelated to crypto  so that 
wouldve been revealed if Monzo had intervened.
- Payments to a crypto wallet was indicative of a scam.
- Ms M didnt get any documentation  indicative of a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear that Ms M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms M didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. Monzo hasnt signed up to the Code, but they follow its principles. That 
said, it applies to faster payments made to another UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payments were made by Ms M to her own crypto wallet. So it doesnt apply in this case. I 
have therefore looked at this complaint using general Authorised Push Payment 
considerations.
I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms M when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of 
character with how Ms M normally used her account  then we would expect Monzo to have 
intervened and spoken to her (or contacted her) about them. 
I looked at Ms Ms account, and its fair to say that the payments were unusual compared to 
the way in which she used her account. She only opened her account in November 2021  I 
presume to make the payments in question.  The only account activities are payments to Ms 
Ms crypto wallets with B and D, and each time these were fed by like transfers into her 
account. Each payment drained the account of funds  to a nil balance.
But that doesnt mean we can reasonably expect Monzo to have intervened in every 
payment. I say that because theres a balance to be struck: Monzo has obligations to be 
alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be 
involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate 
payments. On that basis, in this case, I think Monzo acted reasonably in processing all the 
low value payments  of £10, £100, £35, £1,000, and £1,000.But  as Ive outlined - there were reasonable grounds for Monzo to intervene in the larger 
payments of £5,100 and £10,000. But  they didnt. Monzo was the expert in such matters 
and if theyd intervened and contacted Ms M we would have expected them to ask open 
questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment? And who to?
- For what purpose?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
But  I need to decide whether, if Monzo had intervened, would it have made a difference. 
And on balance, I dont think it would have and Ms M wouldve gone ahead anyway. I say 
that having reviewed the evidence:
- Ms M had been recommended to invest in scam (1) by her brother-in-law.
- And on the £10,000 payment on scam (2), her brother-in-law also participated (he 
contributed £5,000)  so she was encouraged by him. 
- I reviewed the messages between Ms M and the scammer in scam (1). And I think 
its fair to say that Ms M seemed keen to invest. There were phrases such as how 
do I go about investing?....Ok brilliant thanks.thanks for all your help I look forward 
to starting my (A) trading journey.
- Im persuaded that Ms M was attracted by the apparent opportunity of making quick 
profits  she was told there was a return of USD 25,000 on an investment of 
USD15,000. And soon after that, she sent the first payment to A.
- I couldnt see she got any confirmation of deposits on either scam  so she must 
have been keen to go ahead.
- Monzo did warn her about the risks on two payments. On 3 November 2021 (£100), 
Monzo messaged Ms M to say, youre sending £100 to someone that could be 
scamming you. Ms M confirmed shed read the warning and opted to continue.
- On 19 November 2021, Monzo messaged Ms M abut the payment for £1,000 and 
warned Stop, don't pay, it's very likely this is a scam. But  Ms M went ahead with 
the payment. Im persuaded that had there been further warnings (on the larger 
payments of £5,100 and £10,000)  she would likely have gone ahead on the basis 
that shed confirmed she wanted to do so on the other payments.
- Ms M went into the second scam within days after realising she had been scammed 
in scam (1). This suggests to me that she was keen to go ahead and wouldnt have 
been dissuaded by any intervention from Monzo.
Therefore, on the balance of the evidence Ive seen, I dont hold Monzo liable for the refund 
of any of the money paid by Ms M.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takesplace. I looked at whether Monzo took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. But here, as the funds were sent to 
Ms Ms crypto wallet and then moved to the scammers by her, there wouldnt have been any 
funds to recover.
Ms M has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and the 
impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Monzo to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman