DRN-4395629
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has handled repair 
works following an escape of water claim on his home insurance policy. 
References to RSA include its agents.
Mr B is represented in this matter by his mother, Ms B, who lives at the property involved 
and she has made representations on his behalf. For ease, Ill generally refer to Mr B 
throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background.
In March 2018, there was a substantial escape of water at the property, a two-bedroom 
bungalow. Mr B made a claim on his policy for the damage caused. RSA accepted the claim 
and works started in January 2019. 
By October 2019, Ms B moved back into the property from the alternative accommodation 
RSA had provided. By this point, the contents - which had been stored by RSA  had been 
returned to the property. This included more than 200 boxes which contained items that had 
been damaged  either by the escape of water or the way theyd been stored. For various 
reasons, including COVID, practical and health matters - it took until September 2020 for a 
figure to be submitted to RSA for the cost of replacing the contents. This figure wasnt 
agreed, and a complaint was raised with this service.
In August 2021, Mr B accepted a final decision issued by this service in relation to the 
contents, which upheld their complaint. And started to clear the boxes of contents from the 
property using a skip.
In November 2021, Mr B says RSA were emailed to tell them there were issues but they 
urgently needed the dishwasher and washing machine to be properly located and plumbed 
in and asked RSA to cover the cost of this.
By December 2021, Mr B says he asked RSA to pass the matter to the complaints 
department. Ultimately, he wasnt happy with the quality of repairs carried out including the 
following, which Ill refer to in this decision as the Issues.
The position of the pipes and the space left for the dishwasher and washing machine 
and impact of this on their use and warranty.
The location of plugs in the kitchen which has reduced due to the reconfiguration of 
the kitchen work surfaces.
Kitchen light switch not operating the same lights as previously.
Kitchen worktop join lifting/warping.
Wall cupboard damaged in the kitchen.
Lounge ceiling uneven with numerous small areas of plaster flaking.
Lounge decoration not to a satisfactory standard.
Fireplace  whilst paid a cash settlement for this, this didnt include correcting the 
mess of the wall. Also, the fireplace is off center in the chimney breast.
Loft ladders cant extend correctly now carpet has been laid. 
Mr B would like the work to be completed properly. He says, if the property hadnt been filled 
with over 200 boxes for more than 18 months since the time it was habitable, RSA wouldve 
been notified of the problems sooner. It was only after these things had been resolved  by a 
final decision from this service in August 2021 - they were able to clear the boxes and 
reasonably become aware of the Issues.
RSA say the certificate of completion was issued in April 2019 and this had a 6-month 
rectification period from the builder. In addition, under the policy terms, Mr B agreed to a 12-
month guarantee for works. As Mr B didnt raise any queries until long after these periods 
had expired, hes out of time to do so. And asking RSA to now cover them would be punitive. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint asking RSA to do the works and pay £250 in 
compensation. 
RSA didnt agree to this. It says to ask it to rectify any works after such a long time would be 
unfair in the extreme and sets a worrying precedent. Further, it says the contents issues 
experienced are unrelated to the Issues.
In response to the Investigators view, Mr B made a number of points including:
He wasnt aware of the 12-month guarantee time limit. 
He wants a cash settlement, in particular so the works can be organised around the 
adjustments needed for health conditions.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 September 2023 where I said the 
following.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. Having done so, Im currently 
intending to uphold this complaint. 
Is Mr B out of time?
RSA says it wont consider the Issues raised by Mr B because they were raised outside the 
guarantee period it says Mr B agreed to when he took out the policy. But I dont see things 
the same. This is for the following reasons:
1. Firstly, the work thats been carried out by RSA is covered by the claim. So, its 
required to carry out effective and lasting repairs. To be lasting, it must put right the 
damage for an appropriate amount of time. This obligation isnt subject to a blanket time limit - whats appropriate will depend on whats being repaired. And I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable for RSA to seek to limit its obligation in this way using a 
term in the policy document. 
2. Even if I thought it was fair for RSA to rely on the policy in this way (which, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I dont), Im not satisfied April 2019 was the start of any period of 
warranty. There were significant further works until at least July 2019 and problems 
related to contents werent resolved until August 2021 (and only because of a 
decision issued by this service). Ultimately, Ms B was unable to return to the property 
until October 2019 and then had to live amongst 200 boxes of returned (but 
damaged) contents until at least August 2021. Therefore, I dont agree Mr B could be 
expected to notify it of any and all issues in the period RSA has suggested. However, 
Mr B did notify them by November 2021. And I consider this was within 12 months of 
him being reasonably able to do so. To be clear, it follows my view here would be the 
same even if Mr B didnt raise the issues until January 2023.
Finally, I havent seen any evidence of the detriment the delay has caused which 
would permit RSA to reasonably and fairly rely on the policy term in this way even if I 
thought it was fair and reasonable for RSA to do so. 
I therefore find it unfair and unreasonable for RSA to rely on the term to limit the obligation 
on it to provide a lasting and effective repair in this particular matter. 
Has RSA provided a lasting and effective repair?
RSA has told Mr B it wont consider the Issues as they were raised out of time. So, it hasnt 
accepted the Issues exist nor are RSAs responsibility to put right. There hasnt been a 
review of the work, and Ive not been given any expert opinions on the quality of the work 
from Mr B nor RSA. So, its not possible for me to say in this decision whether RSA has 
more likely provided a lasting and effective repair. 
Having said this, Ive taken account of the photos and videos Mr B has provided and accept 
these are enough to show the Issues raised do require RSAs consideration.
As a result of this, there will need to be further investigations by RSA to see what works 
need to be carried out, if any. This means RSA will need to attend the property to review the 
repairs - specifically in relation to the Issues  to decide if what was provided was a lasting 
and effective repair and produce an assessment of this. If any works are identified in this 
assessment, RSA will need to produce a scope of works before carrying out the works. It will 
need to share the assessment and any scope of works with Mr B.
I appreciate Mr B wants an independent party to assess the issues raised. But I consider it 
reasonable to require RSA to do this. And, as directed above, Mr B will be able to review that 
assessment and scope of works himself. 
Im aware Mr B would prefer a cash settlement and the reasons for this. However, this isnt 
something I am going to require RSA to do at this stage. Firstly, the assessment may not 
reveal any repairs which arent lasting or effective. Secondly, RSA generally has the ability to 
choose under the policy how it settles a claim and I see no reason to interfere with this at 
this stage. At this point, I think its helpful to explain that, in carrying out any further work, 
RSA would need to bear in mind Mr Bs reasonable requests about how and when works are 
carried out, taking into account the health issues of Ms B which its already aware of. Finally, 
if Mr B wants a cash settlement but RSA is prepared to do any works identified as a result of 
the above-mentioned assessment, RSA is only required to pay what it'd cost for it to do 
work. This may differ significantly to what it will cost Mr B to get the works done privately. I can see RSAs decision not to assess the works when they were first raised wouldve 
caused both inconvenience and distress to Mr B. I also consider RSA gave conflicting 
information about how itd handle the complaint raised  it said itd phone to discuss matters 
and I cant see it did this. Im therefore intending to ask it to pay him £250 as compensation 
for RSAs failings in this regard. 
Finally, I note in this matter Mr B referred to having to bear the costs of plumbing in the 
dishwasher and washing machine when RSA refused to do this. If Mr B hasnt been 
reimbursed the costs of this, I consider RSA should now do so, subject to reasonable 
evidence of payment. I say this because in RSAs notes it confirmed the property was ready 
except for a return visit needed by plumber to plumb in dishwasher and washing machine 
when contents issues resolved but when asked to cover the costs of this in November 2021, 
RSA declined. It also needs to pay interest on this sum from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement at 8%. 
I recognise Mr B may feel disappointed with this outcome overall and Im sorry he may feel 
this way, but I am hopeful this gives him a pathway towards being able to bring matters to a 
close.
Putting things right
I currently intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right by 
taking the following steps.
1. Arrange to attend the property (within a reasonable period of being told Mr B accepts 
this decision) to review the repairs - specifically in relation to the Issues  to decide if 
what was provided was a lasting and effective repair and produce an assessment of 
this. If any works are identified, RSA will need to produce a scope of works before 
undertaking the repairs to put things right. It will need to share this assessment and 
any scope of works with Mr B within a reasonable period of them being completed.
2. Pay the cost of having the dishwasher and washing machine plumbed in plus interest 
at 8% from the date it was paid to the date of settlement, subject to evidence of the 
date of payment.
3. Pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. RSA must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ms B responded to accept the provisional decision on behalf of Mr B. She understands the 
reasons for it and only asks that any contractors entering the property wear facemasks. This 
is due to health issues and a recent admission to the hospital. She asks me to make this an 
instruction in my decision. Ms B also explains shes concerned theres an issue with the 
damp proof flooring in her bedroom with white mould growing on the carpet, further 
exacerbating health issues and wonders if this could be dealt with by RSA at the same time 
as the above issues which form part of this complaint. 
RSA responded to ask questions about the findings in the provisional decision. Although I 
considered these to have been covered in the same, I responded and reminded it of the 
deadline for representations about the provisional decision. I havent heard anything further 
from it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed RSAs questions and theyve not persuaded me to change my decision. I say 
this because the findings reached in the provisional decision were explained and I havent 
seen anything to change them. 
In response to the specific points raised by Ms B, I respond as follows:
I cant require any people entering the property under RSAs instruction to wear a 
facemask  its not something which I consider is within the scope of my powers as 
an ombudsman. Even if it were, its not something I would require as not all people 
are able to wear a facemask. However, as I set out in the provisional decision, in 
carrying out any further work (and assessments), RSA would need to bear in mind Mr 
Bs reasonable requests about how and when works are carried out, taking into 
account the health issues of Ms B which its already aware of. I consider this would 
include the request for any visitors to wear facemasks which it can share with the 
relevant contractor in advance. 
I would balance this by emphasizing to Mr B - and Ms B  they will also need to be as 
flexible about the times and parameters of any visits by RSA as they possibly can. 
This will help to bring the matter to a timely close which I feel sure both parties are 
keen to achieve. 
Ms B is correct that any further issues noted with the repairs would need to be raised 
separately with RSA. However, RSA may decide its more effective to assess the 
damp issue in Ms Bs bedroom when it reviews the repairs relating to the Issues. It 
seems to me this would be the most efficient way forward. However, its not 
something I can require RSA to do. 
I note there have been times when Ms B is not well enough to respond to this service 
or RSA. Mr B could appoint a further representative for those times as this may help 
matters progress as swiftly as possible. 
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited needs to put things right by taking the following 
steps.
1. Arrange to attend the property (within a reasonable period of being told Mr B accepts 
this decision) to review the repairs - specifically in relation to the Issues  to decide if 
what was provided was a lasting and effective repair and produce an assessment of 
this. If any works are identified, RSA will need to produce a scope of works before 
undertaking the repairs to put things right. It will need to share this assessment and 
any scope of works with Mr B within a reasonable period of them being prepared.
2. Pay the cost of having the dishwasher and washing machine plumbed in plus interest 
at 8% from the date it was paid to the date of settlement, subject to evidence of the 
date of payment.
3. Pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. RSA must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. To put things right, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited needs to 
take the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman