DRN-3324399
The complaint
Mr W has complained that MBNA Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided him with two 
new credit cards in 2017. 
Background
Mr W applied for, and was given, two new credit cards from MBNA in April and May 2017. 
He has said that at that time he was already experiencing financial difficulties and had a 
number of different loans and credit card accounts open, which he was using to fund a 
serious gambling problem. He believes it was irresponsible of MBNA to have given him two 
new credit cards, in quick succession, without completing more thorough checks on his 
existing financial circumstances.   
MBNA responded to Mr Ws complaint and said it was satisfied that at the time he applied for 
both credit cards it carried out the relevant checks to ensure the lending was affordable. It 
said that based on Mr Ws declared annual income and expenditure, which it was entitled to 
assume was correct, the lending appeared to be affordable. As such it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with MBNAs response Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint and upheld it. They said that if MBNA had carried out 
more extensive checks it wouldve seen that Mr W had a reliance on payday lending, had 
multiple credit card accounts already open with other lenders and that there was evidence of 
excessive gambling on his bank account statements. As such they believed MBNA had 
made an error when it provided Mr W with both credit cards. 
MBNA disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and so it was been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings and dont think MBNA shouldve 
provided Mr W with either credit card. Ill explain my reasons below. 
Mr W applied for the first of the two cards in April 2017 and it was approved with an opening 
limit of £5,400. Then just over four weeks later, he applied for a second credit card in early 
May 2017, which was also approved with a larger opening credit limit of £7,900. Which 
means that in under five weeks MBNA had provided Mr W with access to £13,300 of credit. 
At the time of applying for the second card, Mr W had already used over 50% of the 
available credit on card one and its outstanding balance was £3,230. Mr W has confirmed 
that by May 2017 the first card was at its limit and by June 2017 so was the second card. 
In addition to this at the time of both applications Mr W declared his annual income to be 
£90,000 and his existing debt to be just under £13,000. As such MBNA have said the cards 
were affordable and it was Mr Ws responsibility to provide it with any relevant information 
that might mean this wasnt the case. 
However, there are numerous regulatory requirements, set out in CONC and elsewhere, that 
require businesses to ensure that lending is not only affordable on paper but also 
sustainable. And this means that the checks businesses need to carry out should consider 
not only the income but the existing debt consumers have and how it is made up.
By the time Mr W applied for these cards he already had six loans with different payday 
lenders and four other open credit cards. And he has confirmed that he had a serious 
gambling problem, which is evident from his bank statements at the time where it is clear he 
is gambling excessively. In addition to this Mr W was also relying on his overdraft each 
month and was being charged between £30-£90 a month in just overdraft fees in the three 
months prior to applying for the two credit cards. 
MBNA have said that despite the fact that Mr W had other loans and credit cards at the time 
of application these were all being well maintained and there was no evidence of arrears. It 
has said that it would be unreasonable for it to assume consumers who accessed payday 
loans are experiencing financial difficulties. However, while I agree it would be unreasonable 
for a lender to automatically refuse to provide credit to a consumer just because of an open 
payday loan on their credit file, I think that given there were six open loans, evidence of an 
overdraft being used regularly and four existing credit cards being utilised, there was enough 
evidence to indicate that additional lending may not be sustainable and more in-depth 
checks should be run. And had additional checks been carried out, such as a review of Mr 
Ws bank statements, I think the fact that he was already struggling to manage his finances 
wouldve become apparent and MBNA wouldnt have provided him with additional credit. 
MBNA have said that the information provided in bank statements can be misconstrued and 
its not always clear what additional funds maybe available to a consumer, for example, 
income from a partner that they can rely on to help cover utility bills or rent/mortgage 
repayments. However, looking at Mr Ws bank statement for March  April 2017 I can see Mr 
W spent just under £1,100 on gambling transactions in a single day, a few days before 
applying for the first credit card. And in the following statement covering April  May 2017 I 
can see in the 4 days prior to him applying for the second credit card he spent approximately 
£1,700 on gambling transactions. So, Im satisfied that it wouldve been clear to MBNA that 
providing Mr W with access to over £13,000 of additional credit was inappropriate at best 
and harmful at worst.   
By June 2017 Mr W applied for limit increases on both cards which were rejected, because 
of the way he was managing the cards. There were fees for cash advances that resulted 
from Mr W using the cards to gamble with, and he even spoke to an MBNA staff member at 
this time and explained he was expecting gambling credits to be paid onto the card which 
would reduce the outstanding balance. Despite being told the cards were being used for 
gambling, and the fact that Mr W was at the limit of both cards within a month or two of 
having received them, I cant see anything that indicates MBNA checked whether Mr W 
might need additional help or support managing his finances. And by August 2017 
transactions are being declined and Mr W is again touch with MBNA to speak about 
gambling credits he was expecting to see on the card, and again there is nothing on file that 
indicates MBNA asked Mr W if he was comfortable with how he was using the cards or if he 
needed any additional help or support. By 2018 Mr W was regularly missing minimum 
payments on the cards and they were ultimately sent to collections and blocked from further 
use. 
MBNA has said that it has since changed its policy and no longer approves applications for 
second credit cards within a year of a new credit card account being opened by a customer. This is reassuring to hear, and I assume linked to, amongst other things, MBNA wanting to 
get a clear understanding of how customers manage their accounts to ensure any future 
lending is sustainable for them. 
However, this policy wasnt in place when Mr W applied for his cards. And based on 
everything thats set out above, including the level of debt Mr W already had at the time he 
applied for both cards, the nature of that debt, and how he was managing his income, 
including the excessive amount of gambling that was evidenced on his bank statements prior 
to applying for both cards, I dont think MBNA did enough to ensure that the lending was 
sustainable. And if it had carried out more extensive checks at the time of application, I dont 
think it wouldve provided Mr W with either card. So for that reason, Im upholding his 
complaint.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right MBNA Limited should:
Rework Mr Ws accounts. To do this MBNA should remove all interest and
charges applied from the start so there is a new balance consisting of the amount
lent. Then deduct any payments already made. If this results in Mr W paying too much, then 
any overpayments will need to be refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount
Remove any adverse information about the credit cards from Mrs credit file.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then MBNA should attempt to arrange an
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W.
HMRC requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ws complaint against MBNA Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman