DRN-3965758
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly refused to indemnify her on a group 
protection policy.
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs R was involved in an accident with another vehicle. She had comprehensive motor 
insurance with another underwriter (U). She reported the claim to U, but because the 
circumstances of the accident looked like Mrs R wasnt at fault, she was referred to an 
accident management company (A) to deal with the claim.
A arranged for Mrs Rs car to be repaired and provided a replacement vehicle for the 
duration. The replacement car was provided on a credit hire basis, with the intention of 
claiming the cost from the other drivers insurer (the TPI). But the agreement said if A 
couldnt recover the costs from the TPI, then Mrs R would be liable for them.
To protect against these potential costs A took out a group protection policy with Amtrust 
which Mrs R benefitted from. The policy provided cover for the credit hire and repair costs in 
the event they were unable to be recovered from the TPI. But, like all insurance policies, not 
everything was covered and conditions and exclusions applied to the policy.
In this case, A stopped pursuing the TPI for the costs. This was done because the TPI said 
Mrs Rs car didnt have a valid MOT at the time of the incident. The TPI said it therefore 
shouldnt have been on the road, so doesnt think it needs to pay the hire costs Mrs R 
incurred while it was being repaired.
A went on to say that because Mrs Rs car didnt have a valid MOT, shed breached the 
terms of the hire agreement. And Amtrust, for the same reason said it was refusing to 
indemnify her  meaning she wasnt able to make a claim from it. All this meant that A then 
took the decision to pursue the hire costs - £4,130.22  from Mrs R directly.
Mrs R doesnt think thats fair, so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She thought it was a clear condition of 
the group protection policy that Mrs Rs car had a valid MOT. But she didnt think Amtrust 
had done enough to show it was prejudiced by it not having one.
Amtrust didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Weve not been provided with the full policy terms in this case. Amtrust has said this is 
because its a group policy. But from what we have been provided, its clear that the policy 
says it wont provide cover where Mrs Rs car was being operated without a MOT. So, 
Im satisfied thats a term in the policy. But I also need to be satisfied its fair that Amtrust rely 
on it to refuse to indemnify Mrs R for the costs shes being perused for.
Mrs Rs car was being operated without an MOT. This point isnt disputed. Her car didnt 
have an MOT at the time of the incident. So, on the face of it, it would seem reasonable to 
rely on the term. Amtrust dont provide cover where theres no MOT in place, and there was 
no MOT in place.
But importantly, I need to consider prejudice and whether Amtrust is applying the term in a 
fair and reasonable way. Its only fair for Amtrust, or any insurer, to rely on a term to decline 
a claim or refuse indemnity if that term is material to the loss. And because its Amtrust 
relying on the term, it is for Amtrust to evidence its been prejudiced.
At first glance, this would seem a simple task. Amtrust are only involved because A say they 
cant get the costs back from the TPI. And A say they cant get the costs back because 
Mrs Rs car didnt have a valid MOT. That, on the surface looks like clear prejudice.
But, while this decision concerns Amtrusts actions, not As, I need to also consider deeper 
why A stopped pursuing the hire costs from the TPI. A is entitled to make a commercial 
decision not to take the matter to court, but that decision has considerable impact on Mrs R.
In essence, I need to be satisfied that on balance, A wouldnt have been unable to recover 
its costs from the TPI. In other words, Amtrust needs to show on balance that if this case 
were taken to court, that A would lose. And that it would lose on the basis that Mrs Rs car 
had no valid MOT.
If Amtrust were able to show that if A decided to carry on pursuing the TPI for costs it would 
likely lose, then I think Amtrust would have reasonably shown it was prejudiced. But if it cant 
do this, then Im not persuaded it would be the lack of MOT, as opposed to As decision not 
to pursue the TPI that prejudiced Amtrusts position.
Amtrust has provided a number of court cases as evidence that A would be unlikely to be 
successful in pursuing the TPI for the hire costs. Some of these cases suggest just that, that 
A would be unsuccessful. But others dont. Some suggest that the lack of MOT alone 
wouldnt necessarily mean A would be unsuccessful were the case to go to court. From 
looking at various cases, key factor seems to be whether the party driving without an MOT 
knew they were doing so, and whether the vehicle would have passed an MOT.
In this case, Mrs R wasnt aware she didnt have an MOT on her car. And I think given the 
circumstances, thats feasible. There was a misunderstanding when she purchased the car 
and as soon as she became aware, she took the car to be tested. It passed.
Therefore, Im not persuaded that Amtrust has shown that it was the lack of MOT that 
prejudiced its position here. Yes, it only became involved because A stopped pursuing the 
TPI, and A did this because the TPI objected to paying the hire costs because of the MOT. 
But the TPI is within its rights to object. And while A decided not to pursue the TPI, Ive not 
been persuaded that it would have been unsuccessful if it continued that pursuit. Indeed, 
from the cases Ive seen it seems entirely plausible it may have been successful.
So, Im more minded to say that it was As decision not to pursue the TPI which led to 
Amtrust becoming involved. Im not here to say whether that decision was one that A should 
have made or not, but I dont think its then fair or reasonable to say that it was the lack of MOT that prejudiced Amtrusts position. Because had A continued to pursue the TPI, it may 
have been successful in recovering the hire costs. 
Putting things right
Amtrust should therefore provide indemnity to Mrs R. And if A continues with its decision that 
it doesnt want to pursue the TPI for the hire costs, then Amtrust should step in and offer 
cover in line with the remaining terms of the policy  without relying on the exclusion 
surrounding the MOT.
Mrs R should assist both A and Amtrust in any action to try and recover the costs from the 
TPI, and should a claim need to be made on the policy with Amtrust, she should cooperate 
with Amtrust to help it assess it quickly and promptly.
Being asked to pay over £4,000 in costs and being worried where youll find that money 
from, is, I imagine, distressing. So Amtrust should pay Mrs R £150 for the distress caused by 
refusing to indemnify her for those costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
If A is unable to recover the hire car charges from the third party, Amtrust should 
reinstate indemnity for Mrs R under the group protection policy and settle the hire car 
costs directly with A.
Pay Mrs R £150 compensation for the distress of having indemnity removed and 
being faced with a large bill.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman