DRN-2709515
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) declined a claim he made under 
his legal expenses insurance policy as it says it was made too late.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont detail them in full 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr R made a claim for assistance with costs to take legal action against a builder. One 
Insurance declined the claim as it said it wasnt made within 45 days of the event as required 
by the policy. It also said as his policy had renewed in the meantime, the event he wanted to 
claim for occurred before the start of his current policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Rs policy contains a term that claims should be made as soon as reasonably 
possible and within 45 days of the event happening. Mr R entered into a contract with 
a builder in March 2020 but had no reason to suspect they had misrepresented their 
trade association, or that the quality of their work was poor until June 2020. 
One Insurance has suggested Mr R should have conducted more research before 
entering into a contract with the builder and had he of done so he would have 
become aware the builder had made a misrepresentation. I dont think this is a 
reasonable position, there is no requirement under the policy for a consumer to 
conduct due diligence for a claim to be accepted.
I accept Mr Rs claim wasnt made within 45 days of him entering into the contract, 
however for me to be able to say it is fair for One Insurance to decline the claim on 
this basis, I would need to be persuaded its position was prejudiced by accepting the 
claim late. One Insurance hasnt been able to tell this service how its position has 
been prejudiced and therefore I dont think its ability to accept the claim when Mr R 
made it in June 2020 was altered. Mr R made his claim within a few days of realising 
there was an issue, so I believe he acted promptly. 
The relevant industry guidance says that an insurer shouldnt reject a claim for a 
breach of condition, unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to that 
breach. Having reviewed everything, I dont think One Insurance acted reasonably in 
rejecting the claim when it did, its ability to accept the claim hadnt changed. Mr R 
had full legal expenses cover in place at the time he entered into the contract and he 
notified One Insurance as soon as he was aware of an issue. As such, I think the 
claim should be reconsidered. 
If the claim is otherwise found to be valid, as I think One Insurance incorrectly 
rejected the claim, through its own actions it lost out on the ability to control the claim 
and the costs associated with it. Mr R had to pursue the claim himself and therefore 
he shouldnt therefore be disadvantaged by this when One Insurance put things right. 
One Insurance did offer R £200 compensation for the initial poor service he received 
when trying to report the claim. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount.
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think One Insurance need to do the following:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, as 
if it was made in time and under the cover provided by the 2019/2020 policy. 
If it determines that Mr Rs claim is valid and enjoyed reasonable prospects of 
success, One Insurance should pay the costs Mr R has incurred so far, in bringing 
the claim and defending the counter claim brought. As long as these costs would 
have been reasonably covered under the policy.
One Insurance should add simple interest at 8% per year on any amount it pays to 
Mr R directly from the date he made any payments to the date of settlement. 
If it hasnt already done so, One Insurance should pay Mr R £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against One Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman