DRN-2274264
The complaint
Ms H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
What happened
Ms H took out a store card in 2001. Around the same time she was sold a PPI policy during 
a phone call. The PPI covered her card repayments if she couldnt work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that if AXA 
had brought the exclusion terms of the policy to Ms Hs attention, she wouldnt have bought 
the PPI.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that theres nothing to suggest the policy was 
unsuitable. It said Ms Hs medical conditions may never have affected her and it was unlikely 
that shed need to claim for these conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
The policy excluded Ms H from claiming if her absence from work was as a result of an 
existing medical condition. Ms H had an existing chronic medical condition. She told us this 
condition had worsened over time, her treatment for it had been increased, and shed had to 
take time off work as a result. I think Ms H would have thought that this condition was the 
most likely reason for her to need to make a sickness claim.
AXA had a responsibility to ensure Ms H got all the information she needed to make her 
decision about buying the PPI. I dont have evidence that AXA made this exclusion clear 
enough to Ms H.
I am satisfied that if Ms H had understood that she wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim for her existing condition that she wouldnt have thought the policy offered 
her value for money and she wouldnt have bought it. So I think Ms H lost out as a result of 
what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should do the following:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms H would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Ms H made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it 
owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms H would have owed each month without PPI  Ms H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms H wouldve 
owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Ms H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman