DRN-3578629
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has managed her interest only 
mortgage.
What happened
Mrs C and her ex-husband took out a joint £55,000 interest only mortgage with Woolwich 
Direct (now Barclays) in July 1999. It was taken out over a 13-year term.
Mrs C complains about a number of issues:
The mortgage term was extended around 2012. Barclays says the mortgage was 
extended on an interest only basis for a further 12 years, so the mortgage is due to 
end in 2024. Mrs C says the mortgage shouldve been extended until 2025, when 
she reaches 65 years of age. 
Mrs C complains that for many years Barclays referred to her mortgage as a buy to 
let (BTL) mortgage. Mrs C says she kept telling Barclays it was a residential 
mortgage, but it didnt listen to her.
Barclays told Mrs C she will be required to pay 40% tax when she sold the property. 
But that wasnt correct. That caused her a lot of stress and worry.
Mrs C asked Barclays to extend the term of the mortgage again on an interest only 
basis, but it wouldnt do that. 
Barclays accepted it made a mistake about the type of mortgage Mrs C had and when it told 
Mrs C that 40% tax would be payable when she sold her property. However, it says it hasnt 
done anything wrong in relation to the mortgage extension. It says its against its lending 
criteria to extend an interest only mortgage where customers like Mrs C dont have a 
repayment vehicle to repay the capital of her mortgage at the end of its term. Barclays said it 
would be willing to extend the term of her mortgage if she switched to a repayment 
mortgage. It offered Mrs C a repayment £55,000 mortgage over a 19-year term, but Mrs C 
says she couldnt afford the repayments on such a mortgage.
Barclays offered Mrs C £400 compensation in connection with this complaint, but Mrs C 
doesnt think thats enough. She says that the whole situation has caused her significant 
distress and upset during a time where she has been very unwell. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She thought that Mrs Cs mortgage was extended 
until 2024  not 2025. So she didnt think Barclays had made a mistake on that issue.
Our investigator said she understood why Mrs C was so unhappy about Barclays mistakenly 
telling her that her mortgage was a BTL mortgage and that 40% tax would be payable when 
she sold her property. She appreciated the distress this caused. However, she thought that 
the £400 compensation Barclays has offered her for that was a fair and reasonable amount.
Our investigator also considered Barclays decision to not extend Mrs Cs mortgage on an 
interest only basis. She appreciated what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances and 
empathised with her. However, she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly when it took the 
decision it did.
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
it has been passed to me to decide.
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Mrs C has recently complained to 
Barclays that one of its advisers told her that she a BTL mortgage and wasnt helpful when 
she wanted information about changing her mortgage or switching the interest rate on her 
mortgage. As those are new issues I will not consider that issue in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also think that Barclays should pay Mrs C £400 to resolve this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Referring to Mrs Cs mortgage as a BTL mortgage and related issues
Ill begin by saying that I can appreciate why Mrs C has been so frustrated with Barclays. 
She says that for many years all the paperwork and advice Barclays sent in connection to 
her mortgage related to BTL mortgages even though theres no dispute now that its a 
residential mortgage. It appears this happened because Mrs Cs mortgage has been 
serviced on the computer system Barclays uses primarily to service BTL mortgages. 
Barclays has apologised for making this mistake. 
Barclays has also acknowledged that it mistakenly told Mrs C that 40% tax would be payable 
when her property is sold. This happened as a result of Barclays thinking her mortgage was 
a BTL mortgage.
Having considered what Mrs C has told us and Barclays notes of its contact with her Ive no 
doubt that these issues have caused her significant stress and worry. I dont underestimate 
Mrs Cs strength of feeling about these issues. Mrs C has described the £400 compensation 
Barclays has offered for this as an insult that doesnt reflect what Barclays has put her 
though. Its clear that Mrs C thinks Barclays should put matters right by giving her the 
interest only mortgage extension she has asked for.  
I think its helpful for me to say here my awards arent intended to punish Barclays. I think 
the £400 offered reflects the nature of these mistakes and the impact of them on Mrs C. 
Although I have no doubt that Mrs C has been repeatedly annoyed by Barclays referring to 
her mortgage as a BTL mortgage and the feeling that Barclays hasnt listened to her, I cant 
say that this issue has caused her to lose out financially. Theres no dispute that Mrs C was 
able to extend her mortgage on interest only terms around 2012. Nor have I seen any 
evidence to suggest that Barclays recent decision not to extend her mortgage on interest 
only terms was impacted by Barclays mistakenly saying she had a BTL mortgage in the 
past.  
End of current mortgage term
Barclays thinks Mrs Cs mortgage term was extended around 2012. It has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with a screenshot from its internal system that shows Mrs Cs mortgage is due to end in February 2024.
However, Barclays hasnt been able to provide the Financial Ombudsman Service with a 
copy of a mortgage offer, an application, or any other evidence showing when the mortgage 
term was extended. It has provided us a copy of the annual mortgage statements that it sent 
to Mrs C over the years, but they dont show the date when the mortgage is due to end.
Mrs C has provided us with a copy of a letter dated 21 June 2006 that says: 
Please accept this letter as confirmation that your mortgage term can be extended to either 
your expected retirement age or state retirement age of 65, whichever is sooner.  
Mrs C says she was under the impression this had been put in place and the mortgage term 
was set to end in 2025 when she reaches age 65. 
I appreciate what Mrs C has told us, but Im not persuaded that the letter shows that the term 
of Mrs Cs mortgage was actually amended in 2006. I can see that the letter went on to say:
If you wish to extend the mortgage past this date The Woolwich will need to assess your 
expected income in retirement to ensure that affordability will be maintained. 
The letter then gave Mrs C relevant contact details she could use if she wanted more 
information or to discuss the matter further.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mrs C contacted The Woolwich to do that around 
2006.
So why I appreciate that Mrs C is frustrated that Barclays cant provide documentation from 
2012 to show how long her mortgage was extended for, Im persuaded that her mortgage 
was extended in 2012 (at the end of the initial 13-year term) until February 2024 as the 
screenshot Barclays has provided suggests. Barclays is only required to hold documents for 
six years so I cant say it made a mistake on this point.
Mortgage term extension
Mrs C wants Barclays to extend her mortgage term for as long as possible on an interest 
only basis. She says shed taken out an endowment policy to repay her mortgage, but she 
was required to allocate the money from that to her ex-husband as part of their divorce 
settlement. She wants Barclays to consider her health, the fact that she has maintained her 
mortgage repayments, and the fact that she cant get a mortgage with another lender.
Barclays has told us that its against its lending policy to extend an interest only mortgage to 
a lender that doesnt have a repayment method to repay the capital of their mortgage. 
Instead it offered Mrs C a mortgage on repayment terms that would end when Mrs C was 80 
years of age. Mrs C says she cant afford the monthly payments of £295.89 on such a 
mortgage. After this Barclays said it would also consider giving Mrs C a repayment mortgage 
that would end when Mrs C was 85 years of age so that the monthly repayments could be 
reduced. I cant see that Mrs C has discussed the terms of this offer with Barclays. So I think 
Mrs C should do that.
In the meantime, I think its fair to say that Mrs C remains adamant that Barclays should 
extend her mortgage on interest only terms.
Im conscious of what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances. Ive no doubt from what 
she has told us that she is very worried about her mortgage, and I can see from what she has told us about her health and family circumstances that she has had a difficult time. Im 
very sorry to hear about that and the position she finds herself in. However, my starting point 
on this issue is that its up to Barclays to set its own lending policy. Its allowed to use its 
commercial judgement to put in place a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its 
regulatory obligations, as well as its attitude to risk. Barclays regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, introduced a number of changes to the way residential mortgages are 
regulated in 2014. Those changes mean that lenders such as Barclays are required to 
assess affordability much more tightly then they did when Mrs C extended her mortgage in 
2012.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Barclays. In other words, I have to decide if 
Barclays took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before 
reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the 
decisions Barclays made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my 
part. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for Barclays.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Barclays considered Mrs Cs 
application to extend her mortgage fairly and reasonably. I can see that it has considered 
Mrs Cs circumstances as well as its regulatory obligations and attitude to risk. I appreciate 
that Mrs C feels strongly that she should be allowed to keep paying the mortgage 
repayments she is currently paying so that she can stay in her home. Im also conscious of 
the information Mrs C has sent us from her doctor to show how important that home is to 
her. However, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclays isnt required to extend her 
mortgage on interest only grounds when she doesnt have a repayment vehicle to repay the 
capital of her mortgage at the end of its term.
conclusion
I empathise with Mrs C, and recognise that this decision is likely be very disappointing for 
her. But based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Barclays to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
Mrs C may wish to seek independent financial advice to explore her options, including 
Barclays recent offer of a repayment mortgage that will last until Mrs C is 85 years of age.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs C the £400 it has 
offered to resolve this complaint, unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman