DRN-1774679
 
Complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr J took out in 1997. He applied for his card 
earlier and it was set up without PPI. Then the policy was added afterwards, most likely 
following a phone call.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our adjudicator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Mr J has complained that he wasnt given a fair choice about buying PPI.
When Mr J applied for the card, he wasnt given a choice about whether to have PPI or not. 
The PPI was later added to his account. Barclays says it wouldve been sold on a phone call. 
Given the time thats passed, I understand why Barclays doesnt still have a record of the 
call. But it means that I havent seen any compelling evidence that this call actually took 
place, nor any record of who called who or what might have been said. And Barclays hasnt 
been able to send us any script its salesperson mightve used.
So I cant be certain of what happened here. But taking into account what Ive been told in 
this complaint, as well as what we know about Barclays telephone sales practices around 
the time of this sale, I cant be reasonably satisfied that Barclays made it sufficiently clear 
Mr J had a choice about buying PPI, or that Mr J chose it. And I have no evidence which 
shows that he did choose it. The only evidence I have from the sale is where Mr J applied for 
his card and was not given a choice about buying PPI either way.
I acknowledge that Mr Js card was approved without PPI, and I understand Barclays point 
that this may have indicated to him that he didnt have to have it by the time it was sold. But 
given that the sale of the PPI was relatively close to the card being set up, I dont think I can 
fairly assume that Mr J wouldve known the PPI was not part and parcel of the card. Mr J 
says he wasnt aware he had a choice.Barclays also referenced the industry codes from the time, saying it wouldve followed them. 
But just because there were codes of practice in existence, that doesnt mean that Barclays 
definitely followed them completely.  And I dont think Barclays has clearly shown that it did 
enough to get Mr Js agreement to add PPI to his card, or that it made it clear he had a 
choice and he agreed to have it. Barclays also pointed out that Mr J couldve cancelled the 
policy. But the onus was on Barclays to sell PPI appropriately in the first place  it wasnt on 
Mr J to notice any flaws in the sale after the fact and cancel the policy.
So in the particular circumstances of this case, I havent seen enough information to make 
me think its likely that Barclays gave Mr J a fair choice about buying PPI, or that he actively 
chose it. So I think this policy was most likely mis-sold. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr J in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) Barclays should find out how much Mr J would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr J owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.) Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr J would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when Barclays works out what Mr J would have owed each month without PPI  he 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr J wouldve 
owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) Barclays should tell Mr J what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman