DRN-4314756
The Complaint
Mrs C says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims she made under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare using 
finance from BPF. She also says that the credit agreement she entered into with BPF was 
arranged by a broker that wasnt authorised to do so.
Background to the Complaint
Unhappy with the purchase in question, Mrs C  using a professional representative (PR)  
wrote to BPF in 2021 to complain. I havent seen a copy of that letter. But it appears to have 
included claims under Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation and a breach of contract 
along with a claim under Section 140A for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
(the Letter of Claim).
On 18 May 2021, having treated some of the claims as complaints, BPF issued Mrs C with a 
final response (FRL) rejecting them. PR disagreed with BPFs response and wrote back to it 
to explain why. And it was in and amongst the contents of PRs letter that a new complaint 
was made about how the credit agreement entered into by Mrs C was arranged.
On review of the complaint, BPF realised that it hadnt investigated and responded to 
Mrs Cs Section 75 claim for breach of contract. So, it wrote to her in September 2021 to set 
out its position. Having also treated that claim as a complaint, BPF went on to reject it. But 
rather than explain to Mrs C what her options now were, BPF referred her back to its FRL if 
she wasnt happy with its answer to that particular claim.
As a result, PR referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 19 July 2022. It 
was then considered by an investigator who, having looked at the information available, 
thought that it had been referred too late under the Financial Ombudsmans six-month time 
limit. 
PR disagreed. And as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 21 June 2023 in which I concluded that Mrs Cs 
complaint about her claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under  
Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service too 
late under the six-month time limit. 
I wasnt inclined to come to the same conclusion in relation to her complaint about her 
Section 75 claim for breach of contract or her complaint about the credit brokers authority. 
But as I wasnt persuaded by the merits of those complaints, I wasnt minded to uphold them 
anyway.
In response to my PD, neither side had anything new to add. So, I reconsidered this 
complaint, and this is the last of two decisions setting out my final thoughts.
I dealt with the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction over Mrs Cs complaint about her 
claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
CCA in a Decision on 23 August 2023. So, Ill now deal with Mrs Cs complaint about the 
handling of her Section 75 claim for breach of contract and her complaint about the credit 
brokers authority.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think the relevant merits of this complaint should succeed.
Section 75: Breach of Contract
Mrs Cs Complaint Form suggests that this claim was made because the timeshare provider
went into liquidation in early 2020. But having looked at her purchase agreement (dated
29 October 2012), as I still understand it, the two resorts named on it (Beverley Hills Club 
and Hollywood Mirage Club) remained open and available to members. And as its still the 
case that neither Mrs C nor PR have said and/or provided much in relation to this allegation 
to demonstrate what specific rights Mrs C lost as a result of the timeshare providers 
liquidation, Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract that BPF is likely to be 
jointly responsible for on this occasion.
Was Mrs Cs Credit Agreement Enforceable?
In response to BPFs FRL, and on referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mrs C 
suggested that the timeshare provider wasnt authorised to arrange the credit agreement she 
entered into. And it remains my view that, as this is a complaint against BPF, the upshot of 
that assertion must be to suggest that it wasnt permitted to enforce the credit agreement as 
a result.
However, as I said in my PD, having looked at the Financial Ombudsman Services internal 
records, I can see that the business named on Mrs Cs credit agreement as the credit 
intermediary did hold, at the relevant time, a Consumer Credit Licence issued by the 
Office of Fair Trading. And in the absence of evidence to suggest otherwise, Im satisfied 
that the credit broker in question was likely to have been properly authorised to arrange the 
credit agreement Mrs C entered into as a result.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint as far as the relevant merits of it 
are concerned.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman