DRN-4449218
The complaint
The estate of Ms W says Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt follow its bereavement processes 
regarding the late Ms Ws accounts and that these actions led to losses.
The estates represented in this complaint by its two executors. To avoid confusion, Ill 
mainly refer to the estate in this decision unless its helpful to refer specifically to the 
executors either jointly or individually.
What happened
The estate notified Barclays in April 2021 that Ms W had recently died. Due to an 
administrative error by Barclays, its bereavement processes werent followed on all accounts 
associated with Ms W.
Following a complaint by the estate, effectively saying the error had led to financial losses, 
Barclays issued final responses in March and October 2021. It apologised for the mistakes it 
had made and offered £75 as compensation.
Unhappy with Barclays response, the estate brought a complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into the complaint and recomended that it should be upheld. They asked 
Barclays to increase its offer of compensation to £400 and to cover all costs incurred 
because of the error. I should say that Barclays had already agreed to consider payment of 
the latter, subject to receipt of further information, when it sent us its complaint file.
Both the estate and Barclays accepted the investigators findings which, on the face of it, 
brought this services involvement to an end and meant further negotiations were needed 
between the parties outside of our process. However, when the estate confirmed it remained 
unhappy with Barclays consideration of the costs it was claiming, a second investigator 
looked at the complaint again following the departure of the first. This investigator found that 
we could only look at any costs incurred by the estate as a result of Barclays errors, not any 
losses incurred by the executors personally. They believed the evidence provided by the 
estate related to the latter. The investigator confirmed that the aspect of the complaint for 
which £400 was payable was now resolved.  
Because the estate didnt agree with the second investigators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Losses incurred by the estate
There are two ways in which this service might attempt to consider this complaint. The first is 
to consider it as being brought by the estate of Ms W. Given the nature of the complaint and 
the relevant circumstances, I think it appropriate for us to set up the complaint in this way, 
and thats what weve done.
In this scenario, wed be limited to considering the actions of Barclays in relation to the 
estate as well as any losses incurred by the estate as a result of those actions. The estate 
isnt an individual and isnt capable of suffering distress or upset. So, we cant fairly ask 
Barclays to compensate for such losses.
It is possible, on the other hand, for an estate to experience inconvenience. Theres no 
dispute that the errors made by Barclays in this case have put the estate to trouble. For that, 
Barclays initially offered to pay £75 as compensation. It then agreed to the first investigators 
recommendation that this be increased to £400 in total. This is a significant amount of 
compensation relative to most complaints of this type we see. 
In the circumstances of this case, including the period over which the events took place and 
extra work this generated for the estate, Im satisfied that the revised amount of £400 in total 
is more than fair to put things right for this aspect. So, I dont require Barclays to pay any 
more in this regard.  
The other element of the complaint concerns the financial losses  as opposed to the non-
financial losses mentioned above  incurred because of Barclays errors. 
I thank the executors for the information theyve provided in this regard. Its proved helpful in 
shedding light on the nature of the costs being claimed for. For example, I can see that we 
have copies of bank statements indicating payments made to a mortgage lender and for 
water utilities.
As Barclays has pointed out, the account is in the name of one of the executors  not Ms 
Ws estate. That being the case, I cant fairly say that those losses were incurred by the 
estate or that Barclays should do something now to put things right for the estate in that 
regard. Its open for the executors to contact the organisations that have collected those 
payments to seek reimbursement, if they havent already done so.
If the estates able to provide Barclays with evidence of financial losses incurred by the 
estate as a result of its errors then Barclays should consider it as previously agreed. 
Losses incurred by one, or both, of the executors
The second approach to considering the complaint would be for me to attempt to look at the 
losses incurred by the executors of the estate personally, rather than the estate itself.
I gather this would be the preference of the executors based on their complaint submissions. 
For example, in an email from one of the executors dated 21 October 2023 they say, among 
other things:
I am the consumer in this complaint. The cumulative result of Barclays failings 
negatively impacted on my personal finances  not the estate.  
I appreciate that the executor thinks this service should be able to look at the complaint in 
that way, but I dont believe we can. Thats because this service isnt able to look at all the 
complaints it receives.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules which specify what complaints we have the power to look into. These rules are set out 
in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs handbook. 
The rules explain that in order to be a complaint we can consider, a number of requirements 
must be satisfied. One of these is that the party bringing it must be an eligible complainant as defined in DISP 2.7. DISP 2.7.6R explains that a person must also have a complaint 
which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the 
respondent. The respondent in this case is Barclays. The relationships relevant in this case 
are:
DISP 2.7.6R (1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or 
electronic money holder of the respondent.
In my opinion, the executors werent customers of Barclays with reference to the accounts in 
question (those belonging to Ms W). Their complaint is, in essence, that Barclays has 
mistreated them personally and negatively impacted their personal finances. However, the 
service provided thats led to the complaint was provided to the late Ms Ws estate  not the 
executors. Barclays customer for our purposes was Ms W and then, following her death, her 
estate.
So, in this scenario this wouldnt be a complaint about a financial service that Barclays was 
providing to the executors as its customers. And this means that the executors arent eligible 
complainants in their own right under DISP 2.7.6R (1). I cant see that any other types of 
relationship listed in the rules would apply to this particular situation.
I realise that the executors may also be unhappy with the actions of other organisations such 
as the mortgage lender and utilities provider. But this complaints about Barclays and, as 
such, I cant consider those aspects in this decision.
Putting things right
Barclays has, I gather, already paid £400 as compensation. It should also consider payment 
of any financial losses incurred by the estate as a result of its errors, subject to the receipt of 
supporting information and evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that  as things stand  Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
not required to do any more than it already has in response to this complaint. But if further 
information and evidence is provided regarding the estates losses these should be 
considered by Barclays Bank UK PLC as its done to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman