DRN-3473701
The complaint
Mr S has complained about errors arising from the process of crystallising funds from his pre 
to post retirement accounts with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), which he says 
has caused a number of problems within his overall portfolio. This complaint is about the 
impact such an error might have on Mr Ss fixed protection 2016 and the possibility of 
exceeding his lifetime allowance (LTA)  for which Mr S wants an indemnity in the event of 
any future tax surcharges, should his fixed protection be revoked. 
Mr S wants his accounts to be restored to the position they ought to be in had the 
crystallisation been carried out correctly, he also wants compensation for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused him. 
What happened
Mr S holds a plan with Aviva which includes pre and post retirement accounts and a general 
cash account as part of an overall portfolio. In January 2020 he wanted to transfer around 
£69,000 from the pre to post retirement account and move the tax free cash element of 
around £17,500 into the general plan  before purchasing further investments with that cash. 
 
The sale that was required to provide the cash from the first part of the process was 
completed, but Mr Ss adviser was then informed that it couldnt crystallise the funds from 
the pre-retirement account to the post retirement one because it held Exchange Traded 
Investments. This was found to be incorrect and following a delay the transfers took place on 
6 February 2020  but using incorrect fund prices. There was also an error in allocating the 
tax free cash to the general investment account which caused a delay in Mr S being able to 
purchase additional funds with the cash until 17 February 2020.
Mr Ss adviser complained about the matter to Aviva in January 2020. It said these errors 
and delays meant that:
The crystallisation was completed using the incorrect number of units. This also 
affected Mr Ss LTA  against which he held fixed protection 2016.
A small number of units in one investment had been left in the pension account.
The cash account of the pre-retirement account was overdrawn and had to be 
corrected by creating dividends. 
There was a price difference in the funds Mr S purchased on 17 February 2020 
which caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Backdated charges were applied to the general investment account despite it being 
agreed that none would apply.
Mr S wanted to sell the remaining assets on 5 March 2020, but it was too complex 
considering the errors that occurred previously. So he had to sell units from the post 
retirement account which meant a tax charge of £1,142.24 was incurred.
Mr S wanted to move away from Avivas platform but couldnt do so as the LTA and 
unit prices remained incorrect. This also meant he continued to be charged plan fees 
by Aviva.
Aviva accepted the errors and agreed to correct them. It said it would ensure Mr S was put 
back as close to the position in which he should have been had the transactions taken place 
when they should have done. This included indemnifying Mr S against a claim from HMRC if 
his fixed protection 2016 was invalidated. But, by May 2020 Mr S said Aviva had still failed to 
carry out the corrections and so he brought his complaint to us. 
During the time the complaint was with the investigator most of the outstanding issues were 
either resolved or  where they were regarded as separate complaint points, new complaints 
were raised. 
So, one of our investigators looked into this matter but said this particular complaint about 
breaching the LTA shouldnt be upheld. He concluded that, while most of the outstanding 
issues had largely been resolved at this point, Aviva didnt rectify them as it said it would and 
he felt its offer of £100 for the distress and inconvenience this caused was fair and 
reasonable. 
He referred to other issues which Mr S had raised which he said should be addressed by 
Aviva in the first instance, namely the issue with the higher unit price of the bond funds that 
had to be purchased and the reimbursement of a tax loss suffered by not being able to sell 
assets from the pre-retirement account. 
 
Mr S didnt agree, however, making the following points:
He hadnt received the letter we said Aviva sent him on 9 April 2020 about the 
corrections, as this had only been sent to his adviser. He wasnt aware of the letter 
until 23 July 2021. 
He wanted confirmation of when Aviva would pay the £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
He accepted that there was no financial loss attributed to the LTA, so understood that 
this was simply a question of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. But looking at the emails and phone calls he had to make  which he 
estimated had meant at least 30 hours trying to resolve the matter, he thought this 
should have led to a higher compensation amount being recommended. He said this 
was as a result of Aviva not carrying out the request properly and continuing to 
provide incorrect information about the processing of the amendments. 
Hed been told of a response Aviva said it would send him in September 2021 
outlining the amendments. But he still hadnt received the response so was still 
unaware of whether the adjustments were correct. 
He was surprised that a new investigation was required for his other complaint points 
as hed told us about those matters in his initial complaint.  
He cited a separate complaint from which hed received £5,200 compensation but 
which he said related to the financial loss not the distress and inconvenience hed 
suffered  for which he only received £750.
On checking our website further, he thought this complaint should be considered 
within our award of up to £750 category for the amount of trouble an upset he 
thought hed suffered. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and he reiterated that the offer was in 
line with what hed expect to see for such errors. However, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the outstanding issue of whether the offer for distress and inconvenience was fair -
particularly in light of the information on our website. So the complaint was passed to me to 
review. 
My provisional decisionIn my provisional decision I said that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I said Aviva should 
pay a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused. I made the 
following points in support of my conclusion:
I agreed with Mr S that the ongoing various complaints around the transfer of his 
money from pre to post retirement accounts was becoming confusing. I confirmed 
that my decision was solely about the impact Avivas failure to correct matters 
following the delay to the transfer had on his fixed protection 2016, in respect of his 
LTA.
The other matters which hadnt been resolved should be looked into by Aviva in the 
first instance.
During the time wed investigated the complaint Aviva had been able to demonstrate 
to Mr S that it had completed its corrections and he was satisfied that his pension 
fund value wouldnt be inflated to the extent that his fixed protection 2016 would be 
revoked by HMRC.
So the only matter remaining was the extent to which I thought Aviva should 
compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
Although Id taken into account the time Mr S had spent chasing up his complaint and 
providing evidence to support it, I considered the impact the matter itself had on 
Mr S.
I thought he would have been concerned  over an extended period of time  that he 
might incur a significant tax surcharge. And I thought he would have been concerned 
about not obtaining the indemnity that he wanted Aviva to supply in case its actions 
did cause him to incur the tax bill.
I also thought the previous compensation Mr S had received from Aviva shouldnt be 
taken into account when deciding how much compensation was due in this 
complaint.
Looking at all the factors involved I thought Aviva should pay an additional £200 
compensation meaning it should pay £300 in total. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva agreed with the outcome and said it would be happy to settle on the terms I set out. 
But Mr S didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He noted that I had acknowledged the fact that he might incur a significant tax 
surcharge and how serious that matter could be. So he was surprised my 
compensation award didnt reflect this serious situation by being at the lower end of 
our scale.
He thought that the fact it had taken nearly two years to resolve this matter, during 
which time Aviva consistently said it had corrected his position but hadnt, should 
have led to me recommending a greater award.
While our website is clearly only a guide to the type of awards that could be 
recommended, he thought that guide should be followed unless there is a clear 
reason not to do so. He asked me to explain which factors, in this case, had led to an 
award much lower than the guidelines on our website suggested was appropriate. 
Aviva had also misled this service about the fact it had made the necessary 
corrections. He thought that if this service was unable to get the correct information 
from Aviva then I should realise that it would have been more stressful and difficult 
for a client such as him to obtain that same information.
In his view it was a surprise that a combination of the time taken to resolve things, as 
well as the stress of a possible significant tax bill hanging over him, had led to the 
award of compensation that seemed to apply to our lowest category of awards.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the additional points that Mr S has raised about the amount of 
compensation I recommended in my provisional decision. And I can understand his position 
here and the strength of his feelings about the matter. Mr S has made a number of points 
questioning why I hadnt followed the guidelines our website set out for awards of up to 
£750. 
But having thought about the matter I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I 
think Aviva should pay Mr S £300, in total, for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
fact that its errors and delay might have affected his LTA by making his fixed protection 2016 
invalid  thereby causing him a significant tax liability.
Theres no dispute here about the errors that Aviva made when it was asked to transfer 
funds between two accounts in Mr Ss pension plan. This delay had a knock on effect 
which caused further problems and meant Aviva needed to do some remedial work and 
calculate the position Mr Ss plan should have been in had the error and delay not occurred. 
But, having written to Mr S in April 2020 to confirm the work it was going to do, Aviva failed 
to correct matters and it was only in September 2021 that it finally carried out the 
corrections.
But Mr S has confirmed the position of his plan has now been restored and he is satisfied he 
wont face a tax surcharge because of the previous error. So there just remains the question 
of the appropriate level of compensation for the impact this matter had on Mr S. 
So, Ive looked at the impact of the situation whereby an incorrect valuation of Mr Ss plan 
could have led, if circumstances dictated, to HMRC declaring his fixed protection 2016 as 
invalid. That could have meant that Mr S would incur a tax liability on the value of the fund 
that was in excess of the LTA. 
Mr S says there are two main reasons to think the level of compensation should be higher. 
He says both the time taken to resolve the matter and the amount of time he needed to 
spend chasing up Aviva over that extended period to complete the remedial work  along 
with the stress of potentially facing a significant tax bill, ought to merit an award of around 
£750  in line with the guidelines from our website.
I do accept that Mr S expected the corrections to be made in April 2020, but they werent 
completed until September 2021  so he would have had this on his mind, at various times 
during that period. But at the same time Mr S brought his complaint to us in May 2020, so it 
was this service that took over the investigation and tried to get a positive outcome for Mr S 
during that time. 
Of course, I accept that Mr S was still trying to resolve things himself and was trying to 
mitigate his position, but this service was looking into the matter around one month after 
Aviva had said it would put things right. So I dont think Mr S was impacted in quite the same 
way as if he had to pursue an ongoing complaint against Aviva himself  for the two year 
period thats been referred to. 
I dont dispute that Mr S has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint  but we wouldnt 
normally make a specific award for the costed time taken to bring and pursue a complaint  although I have taken this into account when considering the overall impact caused here. 
I dont dispute that Mr S would have been concerned about the possibility of his fixed 
protection 2016 being revoked  although I note that Aviva did state in its letter of 
9 April 2020 that, having reviewed the case in detail I can confirm that there will no impact 
on your protection held with HMRC. The corrective action taken is something that will be 
carried out in the background and while there will be corrections to the asset/cash movement 
that was part of the issue, this would not have any bearing on your protection held nor would 
there be a reason for us to report any additional information to HMRC surrounding this 
transaction.
I know Aviva didnt actually carry out the corrective work at that time, so Mr S would have 
remained somewhat concerned  but ultimately theres no evidence to show that Mr S was 
either told he would have a tax liability or that he had breached the LTA rules and should 
expect a penalty. I can understand his ongoing concern, but I dont think it would have been 
the same level of concern he would have had for example, if he was in possession of 
communication actually stipulating that he might have to pay a penalty.
I dont underestimate how this may have made Mr S feel and the concern it would have 
caused him. But when taken into consideration alongside the factor of the time taken to 
resolve matters, I think it warrants an award in the range of what Ive previously stated. 
Our role isnt to punish a business for its actions but to make financial awards  where 
appropriate, for the impact of these (negative) actions on consumers. And I know Mr S has 
referred to our website for the guidance on what he sees as confirmation that the level of 
award he should receive is higher than I recommended in my provisional decision. 
But that information is guidance showing case studies and examples of the level of 
compensation paid in certain situations.  We look at every complaint on an individual basis, 
and in this case Ive taken all the evidence into consideration and reached the conclusion 
that the amount of £300 seems fair and reasonably aligned to the impact I think the 
possibility of a tax liability caused by Avivas actions had upon Mr S.  
Putting things right
Aviva should pay a total of £300 for the trouble and upset its actions have caused. This is an 
additional £200 on top of the £100 its already offered.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should compensate Mr S as stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman