DRN-4309788
The complaint
Ms Ys complaint is about a claim she made on her Chaucer Insurance Company 
Designated Activity Company (Chaucer) travel insurance policy, which Chaucer declined.
Ms Y says Chaucer treated her unfairly. 
What happened
Ms Y took out an annual travel insurance policy which covered her whilst she was on a trip 
to Ukraine. Ms Y says that whilst there, loss and damage was caused to her personal items 
when she got caught up in a demonstration at a railway station.
Chaucer took many months to consider her claim- but didnt provide her with an outcome. As 
such Ms Y made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about this. An 
investigator determined that Chaucer had unreasonably delayed dealing with the claim and 
directed them to do so within 4 weeks. The investigator also awarded Ms Y £200 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her by the delay and Chaucers failure to 
provide her with updates. 
The subject of this present complaint is the declinature of the claim by Chaucer following the 
investigators previous assessment of Ms Ys earlier complaint. Chaucer declined the claim 
on the basis that they thought Ms Y had exaggerated it. They say this is because she gave 
an inconsistent account of the laptop she was claiming for, along with other expensive items 
which they couldnt validate as having been lost or damaged during the incident Ms Y 
described.
Our investigator considered Ms Ys complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed with Chaucer that Mr Ys account of what had happened to her laptop was 
inconsistent and that the claim for items was likely to have been exaggerated. Ms Y doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
If any claim made under this Policy is in any respect fraudulent or if any fraudulent means
are used to obtain benefit by You or anyone acting on Your behalf, including inflation or
exaggeration of the claim or submission of forged or falsified documents, You will not be
entitled to any benefit under this Policy in respect of that claim and this insurance will
thereafter become invalid.
The terms also go on to say:
We are entitled to ask You to repay Us any amounts that We have paid to You that are
not covered by Your Policy and to refuse to pay or limit the amount paid of any claim where
You have not provided sufficient receipts, bills or evidence to support Your claim.
In this case Chaucer have expressed concerns about several items that Ms Y has claimed 
for and the fact that they cant substantiate the validity of the claims shes made. Ms Ys 
claim itself is that she was at a railway station in Ukraine where protestors knocked several 
things from her hands which were either lost or broken. The items claimed include a watch, a 
bracelet, a lipstick, sunglasses, an iPhone and a damaged laptop.
As things stand Ms Y doesnt seem to have supplied any proof of ownership of the items 
claimed for or evidence of the corresponding amounts she paid for them. The issue that 
caused Chaucer the most concern however was the information Ms Y gave them during their 
interview with her and then within a subsequent email she sent them about the laptop she 
was claiming for.
Ive listened to the call Ms Y had with Chaucer. She told them that the laptop had been lost 
during the incident and that it wasnt found at a later date. She was asked about an invoice 
shed supplied for repair of the laptop. The answer she provided was that the repair took 
place before it was lost but the invoice shed provided was for something else because the 
repair company had confused things and sent her a document with the wrong name and 
address on it. Chaucer then went on to point out that the invoice is dated as March, which 
was after the incident took place. At this point Ms Y told them the laptop was found by the 
police but wasnt reparable, so it was thrown away.
She later sent Chaucer an email saying a friend had returned her laptop to her having 
received a phone call from someone who found it because the laptop had a sticker with the 
friends phone number on it. She said her friend tried to have the laptop repaired, but it 
wasnt reparable, so she didnt ask for it back.
Its clear to me that there are inconsistencies in both accounts Ms Y gave to Chaucer. During 
her call with them she said the laptop had been lost and not found, then she said the police 
had found it and it was thrown away. In the email she sent after the call, she said her friend 
had been contacted by an unknown person who returned the laptop, but it couldnt be 
repaired so she didnt accept it back. Im not sure I understand the relevance of the invoice 
for repair and whether Ms Y thought it related to the laptop she was claiming for at all. If not, 
then Im not sure why she submitted it. In any event she suggested it wasnt relevant to that 
specific item after it was lost anyway and that the invoice was for something else. 
I appreciate Ms Y has said she has problems with her memory but given the lack of 
evidence to support her claims generally and the inconsistencies in the accounts shes given 
about the laptop first being lost and not found, then being found by the police and then later 
by an unknown person and returned to her friend, I dont think Chaucer did anything wrong 
by turning down her claim.
The information Ms Y gave is at best inconsistent and doesnt support her claim and at worst 
exaggerated or false. Either way, Chaucer was entitled to decline the claim in the way that 
they did.
Ms Y has made various submissions about Chaucer failing to take into account her friends 
account of the laptop when deciding her claim. I dont think that account explains anything 
very clearly, nor does it help shed any light on the inconsistencies Ms Y has given about it 
being lost, then found then disposed of by the police and then found by an unknown person. 
Ms Y has asked for an explanation about why a letter of authority was requested to act on 
her behalf. Im unsure what this relates to. If the letter of authority was requested by Chaucer, then thats something she will need to ask them about. If the letter was requested 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service, she should provide a copy to the investigator who can 
address that.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint against Chaucer Insurance 
Company Designated Activity Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman