DRN-3026869
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
Miss G took possession of the car on 15 August 2019. The car was approximately seven
years old and had travelled approximately 82,000 miles. Miss G had agreed to acquire the
car on 7 August 2019. The price of the car was £5,298. The entire sum of £5,298 was
financed by way of a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, signed by Miss G on
8 August 2019. The car came with a MOT certificate dated 15 August 2019 (with an expiry
date of 14 August 2020). The car had failed an earlier MOT test on 9 August 2019.
Under the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss G undertook to pay 58 monthly
payments of £170.09  total repayable being £9,865.22.
Miss G that says that shortly after taking possession of the car she visited a garage
complaining of black smoke coming from the exhaust. She says that this garage cleaned the
sensors and billed the original supplying dealership for doing so.
On 24 July 2020 Miss G paid £210.00 for an oil change, a new oil filter, a levels check and
two new tyres.
On 14 August 2020 Miss G took the car for its MOT test. However, it failed for the following
reasons:
exhaust emissions exceed manufacturers specified limit
nearside rear coil spring fractured or broken
offside rear coil spring fractured or broken
with the following noted as an advisory:
offside rear tyre slightly damaged/cracking or perishing
On 17 August 2020 Miss G visited a garage. She paid £153.14 to the garage to have both a
new nearside and a new offside coil supplied and fitted. However, this garage could find no
reason for the exhaust emissions exceeding the manufacturers specified limit.
On 21 August 2020 Miss G took the car to a second garage for inspection. The garage
confirmed that in its opinion the diesel particulate filter (DPF) had been removed and the
car had been remapped from the electronic control unit (ECU). It also confirmed that the
cost to correct was approximately £1,250. The cost of the inspection  paid by Miss G 
was £36.
Given what the second garage had concluded Miss G raised a complaint with Moneybarn.
On 1 March 20201 Moneybarn, having had sight of a technical desktop report carried out by
a third party dated 20 January 2021, wrote to Miss G to say that it wasnt upholding her
complaint. However, it paid Miss G £150 for what it accepted were some delays on its part in
investigating her concerns.
On 3 March 2021 the second garage used by Miss G on 21 August 2020 wrote to our
service directly to say:
Vehicle was brought to our workshop after having an MOT at another garage. It failed for
excess exhaust emissions. A vehicle of this age should not have any visible smoke from the
exhaust. I told [Miss G] that I suspected the DPF had been removed. Her reply was, whats
a DPF. We explained. On inspection of the vehicle, it was evident that the welded seam on
the bottom of the DPF wasnt a factory weld, which appeared to have been some time ago.
We run a diagnostic scan of the ECU, which brought up only an airmass code. We checked
live data of the DPF but there wasnt any. Our conclusion is that the DPF had been removed
some time ago, maybe even before the last MOT.
Following receipt of the above the investigator allocated Miss Gs complaint spoke with the
second garage. It confirmed that it believed the DPF had been removed from the car prior to
the 2019 MOT test or removed after the 2019 MOT test but before Miss G took possession.
But regardless of which was the most likely, it was satisfied  based on what Miss G had
said about not understanding what a DPF was and that she had been putting up with back
smoke from the exhaust since taking possession  that the DPF hadnt been removed by
Miss G after she took possession.
The investigator shared what the second garage had said with Moneybarn and asked for its
comments.
Moneybarn responded to say that it believed that the DPF was, more likely than not,
removed whilst the car was in Miss Gs possession.
Having considered what both parties had said and submitted the investigator concluded that
Miss Gs complaint should be upheld and that to fairly compensate her Moneybarn should:
repair the car at no cost to Miss G
provide Miss G with a courtesy car whilst repairs to her car are being undertaken
cover the cost of a new/further MOT test
not pursue Miss G for any payment until a courtesy car has been provided to her and
her own car has been put into a garage for repair
remove the arrears from Miss Gs account from the date in 2020 the car failed its
MOT test
remove any negative markers from Miss Gs credit report
pay Miss G a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused
Miss G accepted the investigators conclusion but Moneybarn didnt. In summary Moneybarn
said:
Given that Miss G didnt complain to it about the quality of the car until August 2020,
a year after she first took possession of it, the onus is on her to prove the fault was
present or developing at the time she took possession of it and she has failed to do
so.There is no evidence to confirm that the DPF was removed prior to Miss G taking
possession of the car.
Its not its responsibility to prove the DPF was present at the time of supply but for
Miss G to prove that it wasnt.
It didnt feel it was necessary to have the car physically inspected given what the
technical desktop report had concluded.
Given the car came with a MOT certificate dated 15 August 2019 it follows, on the
balance of probability, the DPF was present when Miss G took possession of the car.
Its inappropriate to suggest that the selling dealership or the MOT technician
removed the DPF, or that they were aware or should have been aware that it had
been removed.
Its entirely possible that the DPF was removed by somebody else after Miss G took
possession of it, for example by another driver or a servicing garage.
The investigator considered Moneybarns response to her view but wasnt persuaded to
change her mind. She addressed the points raised by Moneybarn and said that it should
also pay Miss G the £36 (together with interest) for the inspection she had paid for in
August 2020. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would also like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive
or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider
is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider
surrounding circumstances.
Miss G acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
Now I dont underestimate Moneybarns strength of feeling in this case. But I can confirm
that I find Miss Gs testimony, and that of the second garage used by Miss G, to be both
plausible and persuasive. In my view I think its unlikely, on the balance of probabilities and
despite what the technical desktop report says to the contrary, that the DPF had been
removed by Miss G (or another third party with or without her knowledge) after taking
possession of the car. Put another way, Im satisfied that more likely than not the DPF was
removed prior to Miss G taking possession of the car and this made it of unsatisfactory
quality at the time of supply.I cant say, as a matter of fact or on the balance of probabilities, when the DPF might have
been removed prior to Miss G taking possession of the car. But I dont need to make a
finding on this point. I only need to be satisfied that the DPF wasnt removed after Miss G
took possession of the car, and Im satisfied that it wasnt. I also think its worth pointing out
that had Miss G removed the DPF, or it had been removed with her knowledge, I see no
good reason why she would have visited a garage so soon after talking possession of the
car to complain about black smoke coming from the exhaust or why she would have paid for
repairs after the car failed its MOT test in August 2020.
Having concluded that Miss G was supplied with a car that wasnt of unsatisfactory quality,
what I now need to decide is what Moneybarn should have to do to reasonably compensate
her.
Now I can see that the investigator recommended that Moneybarn should:
repair the car at no cost to Miss G
provide Miss G with a courtesy car whilst repairs to her car are being undertaken
cover the cost of a new/further MOT test
not pursue Miss G for any payment until a courtesy car has been provided to her and
her own car has been put into a garage for repair
remove the arrears from Miss Gs account from the date in 2020 the car failed its
MOT test
remove any negative markers from Miss Gs credit report
pay Miss G a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused
refund to Miss G the £36 (together with interest) she paid for the inspection report in
August 2020
I accept that under normal circumstances it would be fair to give Moneybarn one opportunity
to repair the car, as recommended by the investigator. However, given the likely value of the
car now, the likely cost of repairs, and given that the car has been on Miss Gs drive and
hasnt moved since August 2020, possibly resulting in further works being required, I think
the fairest outcome is for Miss G to be able to reject the car rather than have it repaired.
Its my understanding that Miss G had use of the car for approximately 12 months up to
August 2020, when it failed its MOT test. Therefore, it follows that Miss G should have to pay
for that usage, usage that equates to 12 monthly payments.
Now based on records provided by Moneybarn it appears that Miss G has made 9 monthly
payments of £170.09, leaving an outstanding balance in Moneybarns books of £8,334.41.
So, it could be argued that Miss G still owes, and should have to pay, Moneybarn three
further monthly payments of £170.09  a total of £510.27.
But equally Miss G has had to pay for an inspection report, a MOT test, post MOT test works
plus other costs (such as car tax and insurance) for which she was never going to derive a
benefit from, whether in full or in part. Its also the case that this whole matter has caused
Miss G a degree of distress and inconvenience for which she should also be fairly
compensated for.
Now I could direct Moneybarn to refund to Miss G the above costs (in full or in part) together
with interest and direct it to pay something for the distress and inconvenience this whole
matter has caused. But in my view, the most appropriate thing to do here is to direct
Moneybarn to write off what Ive concluded above is still owed by Miss G to it of £510.27.For the sake of completeness, I also think that its both fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this case, that Moneybarn should remove any adverse information that it
may have recorded with third party credit reference agencies and to mark the agreement as
fully settled.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it.
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date I gave for the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss G accepted my provisional decision and given that Moneybarn didnt 
respond to it by the date I gave, I can confirm I see no good reason to change my provisional 
findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must:
Collect the car from Miss G at no cost to her.
Remove any adverse information it may have recorded with third party credit
reference agencies in respect of Miss Gs agreement.
Mark Miss Gs agreement, with third party credit reference agencies, as fully settled.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman