DRN-1621707
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
1988 alongside a mortgage. Miss L and the late Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, Halifax at 
the time, mis-sold them MPPI.
To keep things simple, and in the hope that Miss L doesnt mind, I will refer to the late Mrs L 
as Mrs L throughout my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss L and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss L says the policy was sold to her over the phone, but Halifax says the policy was sold in 
branch. There is limited available evidence from the time and what we do have doesnt 
clearly indicate how the policy was sold. But in any event, I dont think I need to make a 
finding on this point as it doesnt make a difference to the outcome. I say this because, as 
Ive explained below, based on the documents we have I think it was made clear to Miss L 
and Mrs L that the PPI was optional, and they chose to take it out. 
Miss L says that this was the first mortgage she had applied for, so she completed all the 
paperwork and sent it back - including the Mortgage Payments Protector Application form 
which she says was a standard document and part of taking out a Halifax mortgage. 
However, Halifax says the optional nature of the policy wouldve been made clear to Miss L 
and Mrs L before the sale was concluded.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence available from the sale of the policy and Ive seen that 
there was a separate section for PPI on what appears to be the mortgage application 
document. In this section the form reads if you wish to join this scheme enter the amount of 
monthly benefit required. And the amount of £300 was written in the space provided. But 
there was nothing in this section which suggested this policy was compulsory or that it was 
an essential part of the mortgage package. Ive also seen that there was a separate MPPI 
application form which was completed to state that Miss L and Mrs L wished to take out the 
policy.  
So, based on the evidence Ive seen I think that Halifax made it clear that Miss L and Mrs L 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant remember this now.
Halifax says this was an advised sale and the adjudicator who assessed the case also felt 
that this sale was advised. Miss L didnt dispute this finding in response to the initial assessment, so as this issue is not in dispute, Ive also made my decision on the basis that 
Halifax provided advice. 
As an advised sale, Halifax had to check that the MPPI was right for them  and based on 
what Ive seen of Miss L and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, I havent seen any evidence to suggest they were affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Miss L says she wouldve received sick pay from her employer at the time which wouldve 
lasted between 6 and 12 months. She also says that both her and Mrs L had savings which 
they couldve used had Miss L lost her job or been too sick to work. But this MPPI policy 
wouldve covered them for up to 24 months for an accident or sickness claim. This is longer 
than Miss Ls sick pay and wouldve been in addition to this. So even if Miss L did receive 
generous employee benefits the MPPI policy wouldve allowed them to use those benefits 
for other expenses, while having the peace of mind that the policy wouldve continued to pay 
out to help them with their mortgage payments. 
Ive considered the evidence supplied of Mrs Ls savings. I appreciate that this policy was 
sold a long time ago and so its difficult to be able to provide evidence of their circumstances 
from this time. I have seen the evidence provided from 1991 which shows that at that time 
Mrs L had some savings in place. It likely that savings of this kind wouldve taken some time 
to build up, so even if I consider that Miss L wouldve had some of this in place at the time of 
sale, I still think the policy wouldve been useful for them. I say this because being a 
homeowner often comes with unexpected costs for maintenance and general upkeep. So, I 
think it was useful to have a policy which wouldve covered their mortgage payments in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment so that these savings could remain intact for 
other essential expenses. After all, the mortgage is likely to have been Miss L and Mrs Ls 
largest financial commitment, and so I think it wouldve been beneficial for them for it to be 
protected. 
Miss L has also told us about a number of other policies which they had in place at the time 
of sale  for example, life insurance and an endowment policy  but these were designed to 
cover them for different circumstances than MPPI, so I dont think having these in place 
meant the MPPI was of no use to them.  
It is possible some of the information Halifax gave Miss L and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont think the MPPI policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and the 
estate of Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman