DRN-2458284
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy because her claim for storm-related damage under her home insurance 
policy has been declined by Tesco Underwriting Ltd (Tesco).
What happened
Mrs B says that high winds in February 2020 caused damage to the flat roof of her garage. 
Tesco declined part of the claim under her home insurance policy. It paid for the internal 
damage caused by the failure of the roof. But it declined to cover the roof repairs. Tesco 
says the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage. 
Mrs B complained to Tesco and asked them to cover the full claim. Tesco didnt agree to do 
that. It said that the surveyor from its loss adjuster had found that the flat roof was failing due 
to age and wear and tear. It said the damage couldnt be considered as a one-off event. And 
that the recent weather had merely highlighted pre-existing issues. Mrs B brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered itd been fair of Tesco to say that 
the storm conditions hadnt been the main cause of the damage. So he felt it was fair for 
Tesco to decline the claim.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
We ask three questions to determine if an insurer has declined a claim when assessing 
insurance claims for storm damage fairly:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
3. were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were there other factors that 
meant the damage might have happened anyway?
Our investigator explained in his view in December 2020 that for a successful claim for storm 
damage, the answer to all three of these questions needs to be yes. He went on to look at all 
three questions in detail. I will only look at the third question here, as Mrs B and Tesco are 
agreed that the answer to the first two questions is yes. 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The surveyors report states:
The felt roof has failed from gradual deterioration resulting in the felt debonding over time 
and eventually part of the felt became torn and becoming detached. The felt is badly worn 
and has reached the end of its anticipated life span and the proximate cause of the felt 
failing is gradual process and normal wear and tear and the winds on the day in our opinion 
have merely highlighted the ongoing issue.
The report went on to describe the condition of the remaining part of the roof. It said:
The remainder of the felt including at the rear was still in situ. From our inspection of this felt 
still intact and the felt on the ground it was in a badly worn condition with cracking and 
splitting evident and part of the drip edge to the rear partly split and coming away. The PH 
thinks the felt is approximately 20 years old and this sort of covering normally has a life span 
of 10 to 15 years and appears to have reached the end of its life span with parts of the felt 
coming away. The winds on the day appear to have highlighted the ongoing issue
Mrs B says that the damage that occurred on the day of the storm wasnt well represented 
by the pictures weve seen. She says the roof wasnt rotten and that there was no crumbling 
or flaking of the roof when she and her husband were trying to break it apart after it failed. 
She says shed tried to explain this to the surveyor when he came out, but that this point 
wasnt included in the report. Mrs B also says that when her contractors carried out the 
repairs on the roof, they said they believed the roof was in a good state of repair before the 
storm. They felt that the storm was the main cause of the damage. Mrs B sent both us and 
Tesco a written statement to this effect from the contractor. 
The policy booklet includes the terms and conditions of the policy. Under term five, page 19 
it says: Storm or flood. Then under what is not covered, it says: Loss or Damage that 
does not arise from one identifiable incident which directly and immediately caused the loss 
or damage.
Tesco relied on the surveyors report when it declined Mrs Bs claim. Tesco says that the 
roof was in a poor state of repair before the storm conditions occurred. So it says the 
damage cant be put down to one identifiable incident. It says that the roof had suffered from 
wear and tear. And although the storm may have highlighted the condition of the roof, the 
main damage wasnt caused by the storm itself.
Ive considered the surveyors report, as well as comments from Mrs B and the written 
statement provided by Mrs Bs contractors. Ive also considered the age of the roof and the 
pictures Ive seen of it, noting Mrs Bs comments about those. Considering both professional 
opinions, and the pictures, Im not persuaded that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. It wouldve highlighted the fact that the roof needed work. So, I think the answer to 
the final question is no. Given this, I cant say that it wasnt fair and reasonable of Tesco to 
decline the claim for storm damage.
As our investigator noted, although Tesco has declined the claim under the Storm or flood 
section of the policy, we also need to check whether the roof couldve been covered under 
any other part of the policy. Term 24 on page 18 of the policy states that accidental damage 
to buildings is covered. But in the what is not covered section, it says: loss or damage that 
happens gradually over time as a result of causes such as light or atmospheric conditions.  
As Im persuaded that the damage to the roof was caused gradually, I cant say that the 
damage to the roof would be covered under the accidental damage part of the policy as the 
same policy exclusion for claims due to wear and tear applies.
I understand that this isnt what Mrs B was hoping to hear. I agree its possible that the storm 
did cause the damage to the roof. But, having looked at all the evidence, on balance of 
probabilities, I cant see that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Ive 
found no evidence that Tesco has done anything wrong. So it wouldnt be fair to ask them to 
cover the roof claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman