DRN-4085906
The complaint
Mr G says HSBC UK Bank Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his 
credit card which paid for accommodation.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr Gs HSBC credit card was charged for accommodation for a second nights 
stay. Mr G had paid the first night separately. On the second day of his stay he went out for 
the day. On return to the accommodation Mr G says his room hadnt been serviced. There 
was a discussion with staff and Mr G along with Mrs G packed their bags and left without 
staying for the second night that theyd booked. After some debate, deadlock was reached 
with the Hotel, so Mr G complained to HSBC. HSBC said it raised a Chargeback with the 
Hotel, and on receipt of the Hotels defence to the chargeback decided not to take the 
chargeback further. It decided it didnt need to refund Mr G. Mr G remained unhappy, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator felt HSBC didnt have to do anymore. 
And Mr G remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G used his HSBC credit card to pay for the Hotel. This meant that if certain criteria were 
met HSBC can have certain responsibilities to Mr G which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). Also Mr Gs HSBC 
credit card is part of a card scheme and this scheme has rules which includes giving HSBC 
a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as the hotel, namely 
through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, but this service considers 
raising chargebacks to be good practice. However it is possible that HSBC could take the 
chargeback as far as possible and Mr G still not be successful in getting a refund.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about HSBC and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr G fairly. This decision isnt about the 
accommodation, which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback 
and S75. I hope this key distinction is clear. Just because Mr G is unhappy with the 
accommodation and its staff, it doesnt necessarily follow that HSBC has done something 
wrong.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
HSBC did raise a chargeback here. The accommodation responded in detail and pointed to 
its terms and conditions and that the room and food provisions were available. It says Mr G 
chose to leave of his own accord. HSBC considered the accommodations response and 
decided a chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. Ive considered the 
evidence here. Its clear there was a dispute between Mr G and Mrs G and the staff at the 
accommodation. Mr G refers to the accommodation staff being rude to them repeatedly. Ive 
also seen emails between the parties and the accommodation staff also make clear they 
think much the same about Mrs Gs behaviour. And I can understand that there is probably 
significant disappointment here in what happened. However Im not persuaded the room was 
unavailable or the contracted services were unavailable either. And Im not persuaded any 
chargeback reason would have been successful had it been pursued to the end of the 
process. So Im not persuaded HSBC treated Mr G unfairly by not taking the chargeback 
further. So I dont think Mr G has lost out because of what HSBC did.
Section 75
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the accommodation and the broader implied 
terms under the Consumer Rights Act. I note the terms make clear that if you leave early the 
full booking remains payable. I also note there is no contractual commitment by the 
accommodation around the daily cleaning/servicing of the room, which is a key concern to 
Mr G from what hes said. Ive considered the Act mentioned along with the accommodation 
terms and what Mr G has said about what happened, and Im not satisfied there has been 
any breach of contract here or material misrepresentation. So Im not persuaded HSBC 
should refund Mr G. Mr Gs arguments are not persuasive of HSBC doing anything wrong 
here.
HSBC offered Mr G £50 for its customer service which Mr G declined. Ive considered 
HSBCs internal records alongside Mr Gs comments on the matter. And Im satisfied its a 
fair offer in the circumstances.
Mr G has made a number of comments about the accommodation and its staff in response 
to our investigators assessment of the matter. But hes not provided any persuasive 
argument why HSBC has treated him unfairly here or why it should refund him. Clearly Mr G 
is unhappy with the accommodation. But HSBC isnt responsible for the provision of that 
accommodation. It is only responsible for its obligations here and to treat Mr G fairly.
And as a consequence of all this Ive decided that Mr Gs complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman