DRN-2540708
The complaint
The estate of Mr G (the estate) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to respond to 
enquiries in good time. The estate says it has incurred additional costs including solicitors 
fees, penalty notice appeals and interest charged by HMRC due to errors by Barclays.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr G held various accounts with Barclays when he passed away on 31 December 2018.
Solicitors were appointed on behalf of the estate to contact various businesses on behalf of
the executors.
On 6 February 2019 the solicitors notified Barclays of Mr Gs death. The estate complains
that there have been several unnecessary delays and errors by Barclays from this point
including:
- Failure to cancel direct debits on notification of Mr Gs death
- Failure to give correct information to the solicitors
- Delays and failure to provide all the information when responding to requests made
by the solicitors
- Delays in settling Mr Gs funeral expenses
The estate says that despite being notified of Mr Gs death, Barclays continued to approve
direct debit payments. The solicitors have advised that when trying to contact Barclays to
resolve this issue they were repeatedly transferred to different departments and the situation
went unresolved.
Barclays responded to this part of the complaint on 24 June 2019 and apologised for failing
to cancel the direct debits. Barclays arranged refunds for the payments made and offered to
cover the cost of three calls from the estates solicitor. Barclays said it couldnt trace the
other calls the solicitor says they made.
Within its final response, Barclays dealt with an issue relating to an unpaid cheque Mr G
wrote to HMRC before he passed away. Barclays said it normally calls or emails customers
when a cheque goes unpaid.  
Barclays accepted there had been delays and problems when dealing with the estates
solicitor and offered £250 and to refund the cost of three calls.
The estate also complains that payment of inheritance tax to HMRC was delayed by
Barclays actions because of delays establishing the correct contact details for each account.
The estate says it took Barclays around three weeks to provide the required information, by
which point the HMRC deadline had passed. When Barclays responded on 28 June 2019,
the estate says that the Bereavement Team failed to identify an account it was managing
and incorrectly forwarded an instruction to make a payment to the wrong department.
As a result of delays, the estate says the solicitor had to make various lengthy calls to
Barclays which came at a cost. The estate has also told us that the delays led to additional
costs in relation to settling inheritance tax with HMRC.
The complaint was referred to our service and passed to an investigator. Within its file
submission, Barclays said it wanted to increase the award by a further £150, taking the total
settlement to £400. The estate didnt accept. The investigator thought Barclays offer was fair
but the estate asked to appeal. On behalf of the estate, Mrs S asked for the additional costs
incurred to be covered by Barclays in full as well as compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused to her to be considered.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues here and Im going to begin by looking at the direct debit, returned
cheque and funeral payment delay. Barclays accepts the direct debits were paid in error and
took steps to refund them. Leaving the impact and cost in dealing with this issue to the
estate to one side for a moment, the refunds meant there was no loss.
I understand Mrs S feels Barclays policy on what it does when a cheque is returned unpaid
wasnt followed. Mrs S feels Barclays claim that it doesnt have to write to customers may be
wrong. I take Mrs S point, but Im not persuaded a decision to call or email Mr G was
unreasonable. I appreciate that in the circumstances of this complaint, that contributed to a
delay in settling a tax bill. But I dont think Barclays could have reasonably known what had
happened or that a letter may have been of more use in the circumstances.
Mrs S has also raised concerns about how the funeral expenses were settled and that
delays led to additional calls being made and costs being incurred. Ive taken these
comments into account when deciding how to proceed.
The estate says that delays settling the inheritance tax bill led to interest being incurred.
They also say errors led to additional calls and work for the solicitor which meant
unnecessary costs for the estate. There is some debate about the correspondence dates 
and when Barclays responded. I note that the solicitors say the first letter about this point 
was sent on 12 June 2019 but Barclays says it was 21 June 2019. Barclays says follow up
instructions were received in July 2019 that superseded the original ones sent by the
solicitor.
The estate claims its solicitors instructions were sent on 12 June 2019 and that Barclays
delay in responding until 28 June 2019 caused the HMRC deadline for IHT to be paid to be
missed. The estate says the process was further delayed because the Bereavement Team
incorrectly forwarded the instructions to its Wealth Team in their entirety which wasnt right.
I can see that the 28 June 2019 letter from Barclays Wealth Team says it was unable to
trace two of the accounts noted in the solicitors instruction, despite one of them having a
Barclays sort code. The solicitors took the step of calling Barclays to help it trace the
accounts and get confirmation of what was still required.
An attendance note from 4 July 2019 has been supplied that shows the solicitor contacted
Barclays and held a 78-minute phone call to identify the steps they needed to take. The
solicitors records show the call was transferred to different departments before instructions
on paying IHT were taken. Im satisfied that the way Barclays responded to the solicitorsinstructions caused further calls and work for them, which in turn led to additional costs for
the estate.
Having reviewed all the information available, Barclays responses and the timelines
involved do appear to be somewhat chaotic. I think that was, in part, caused by the fact Mr G
had various high value investments and accounts held within different parts of Barclays. It
appears that obtaining the necessary information for the estate took a long time and, on
balance, Im satisfied that additional contact and work from the solicitor was required over an
extended period.
Barclays final response dated 24 June 2019 agreed to refund three of the calls the solicitors
made. There is some debate about how many calls there were after Barclays failed to trace
all the calls the solicitor says was made. I dont think that payment of the estates costs
should be contingent on Barclays being able to trace the calls that were made. Part of the
estates complaint relates to the erratic way, it says, calls were transferred between
departments. In those circumstances, it may not have been possible to trace all the calls.
However, the solicitor has kept detailed records of their contact with Barclays. The records
include the dates, times and lengths of the calls made along with what was discussed.
Ive reviewed the cost evidence and attendance notes provided by the solicitor and Im
satisfied that the calls were made as claimed. Subject to an invoice that can be forwarded to
Barclays, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint and direct Barclays to cover costs for
the additional calls the solicitor made above the normal course of their work for the estate.
The estate has told us that a cost of £396 plus VAT was incurred for work involved in
assisting with the complaint and preparing its case for this service. We dont normally award
costs for professional assistance when bringing a complaint. But in this case, Im satisfied
the estate couldnt have brought its complaint to us without the assistance of the solicitor. As
the solicitor charges for their time, I think its fair that these costs are covered by Barclays.
Mrs S says that, as an executor, she has experienced significant levels of distress and
inconvenience and would like the settlement to take that into account. I can see that this
situation has gone on for a long time and has been very stressful for Mrs S. But, the
complainant in this case is the estate of Mr G. Mrs S brings the complaint to us on behalf of
the estate in her role as executor, but she isnt the complainant. Whilst I understand my
decision may seem harsh to Mrs S, we can only award compensation to the complainant.
And, as Ive said, thats the estate of Mr G. As an estate cant experience distress and Mrs S
isnt the complainant, I have no grounds to award compensation on that basis. So my
decision will relate to the costs incurred by the estate only.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that Barclays did cause delays and
additional work for the solicitors acting for the estate. As a result, I think the fairest approach
is for Barclays to pay compensation that covers the cost of the additional calls and work by
the solicitor which were incurred by the estate.
Mrs S has asked for the following costs to be covered:
-Cost of six calls to Barclays (£504+VAT)
-Cost of two emails to Barclays chasing updates and raising concerns (estimated at 
£50+VAT)
-Cost of providing updates to Mrs S about unusual delays and problems experienced 
(estimated at £225+VAT)
-Cost of time spent by solicitors assisting with complaint and preparing information for 
submission to this service (£396+VAT)I can see Mrs S has sent us some evidence of the costs incurred with the solicitor as well as
the specific costs she has listed. I would ask that, in response to this decision, Mrs S obtains
a final invoice from the solicitors acting for the estate that specifically sets out the above and
confirms the costs were incurred as a result of additional work it completed that was required 
to deal with the estate.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Barclays responded and asked for some additional guidance concerning why I awarded 
solicitors costs for assistance in bringing the complaint. I responded to Barclays and said I 
was satisfied that the estate needed to pay its solicitors to obtain the supporting information 
and evidence to bring the complaint. So, in this case, I felt the decision to award those costs 
was fair. Barclays didnt respond further. 
On behalf of the estate, Mrs S forwarded a final invoice provided by the solicitor. The final 
invoice specifically noted that it was in relation to additional work completed by the solicitor 
when trying to wind up the estate. I have forwarded the invoice to Barclays to further 
comment but received no response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S forwarded the solicitors final invoice as requested in the provisional decision. Some of 
the costs on the invoice werent included in my provisional decision. As a result, I sent a 
copy of the invoice to Barclays and explained that, further to the costs I set out in the 
provisional decision, I also intended to include some additional legal costs incurred by the 
estate of Mr G. I asked Barclays to respond with any comments or additional points it wanted 
to make before I issued my final decision. I said that, if I didnt hear back, I intended to 
proceed and award the costs set out in the final invoice. Barclays hasnt responded further. 
The final invoice provided includes £247 for costs incurred for chasing information required 
to complete the 2019/2020 tax return for the estate. This delay wasnt included in the original 
complaint or as part of my provisional decision. So, its not something I can fairly tell 
Barclays to pay as part of the settlement of this complaint. As our investigator responded to 
say, that is a separate matter and I leave it to Mrs S to decide how to proceed. 
As no new points have been provided by Barclays and I remain of the view that the estate of 
Mr G incurred additional costs due to the way its solicitors enquires were handled, I still 
think this complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. As a result, Im going to 
proceed to award the costs set out below, and in the final invoice supplied by the solicitors 
(which has already been sent to Barclays), and uphold this complaint.   
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, I direct Barclays to pay the following costs: 
- Cost of six calls to Barclays (£504+VAT)
- Cost of two emails to Barclays chasing updates and raising concerns £50+VAT
- Cost of providing updates to Mrs S about unusual delays and problems experienced 
£225+VAT
- Cost of call to Barclays on 4 July 2019 regarding Inheritance Tax payment delays 
£343+VAT- Cost of providing update to Mrs S regarding Inheritance tax payment delays 
£50+VAT
- Cost of time spent by solicitors assisting with complaint regarding account 
administration and payments and preparing information for submission to this service 
£396+VAT
- Cost of time spent by solicitors assisting with complaint regarding Inheritance Tax 
payments and delays and preparing information for submission to this service 
£396+VAT
- Total costs awarded including VAT £2,356.80
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the 
estate of Mr G £2,356.80 as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman