DRN-4034363
The complaint
Mr B complains about the valuation Covea Insurance plc placed on his van after he made a 
claim on his commercial motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with its deductions from 
his settlement.
 
What happened
Mr Bs van was declared a total loss and Covea said its market value was £8,270 without 
VAT. Mr B thought his van was worth about £1,000 more and he thought VAT should be 
added. Covea then deducted £874.14 from the settlement as it said Mr B hadnt disclosed a 
previous motoring conviction as he should have done at the renewal of his policy. And so it 
made a proportionate settlement based on the premium Mr B should have paid compared to 
what he had paid. Mr B wanted to retain the vans salvage and Covea deducted £2,646.40 
for the salvage value. And it deduced £100 for the policy excess. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Coveas settlement offer for the vans pre-accident market value was fair and reasonable as 
it was made correctly in keeping with our approach. And she thought Coveas deductions 
were fair and reasonable. 
Mr B replied that Covea had increased the salvage value. He questioned the valuations 
Covea had obtained. He also said his cover had been duplicated and a pro-rata refund 
should be provided for this. Mr B asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. I can see that his 
policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr B provided details of advertisements hed found for similar vans. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
I can see that Covea looked in four of the trade guides we use for vans of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs van at the date of its loss. The guides offer 
different valuations as they use different algorithms to calculate market values. Hence we 
think using a range of guides is good practice. 
Covea then offered Mr B the highest valuation it found. I think that was fair and reasonable 
as the valuation was made correctly in keeping with our approach. So I dont require Covea 
to increase this. 
Covea didnt add VAT to this amount. And Im satisfied this was correct as Mr B is VAT 
registered and can reclaim VAT from HMRC in his tax return. 
In its validation of Mr Bs claim, Covea found that Mr B hadnt disclosed a motoring 
conviction at the renewal of his policy. Mr B had a commercial motor insurance policy and so 
Im satisfied that the relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015. This states that a consumer has 
a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer. 
In this particular case this means that Mr B should have correctly disclosed all his driving 
convictions incurred within the previous five years when asked at his renewal of his policy. 
But he didnt do so, and the Statement of Fact records just one previous driving conviction 
when Mr B had two. So I think Mr B failed in his duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
Covea has provided confidential information from its underwriting guide to show that if Mr B 
hadnt failed to make a fair presentation of risk it would have charged him a higher premium. 
So Im satisfied that there was a qualifying breach of the Insurance Act. Covea classed this 
as neither deliberate nor reckless and I think that was fair and reasonable. 
The applicable remedy under the Act entitles Covea to reduce the claim settlement 
proportionately. Covea has shown that it would have increased Mr Bs premium by 15% if he 
had disclosed the second conviction. So it would be entitled to pay 85% of his claim. Covea 
deducted less than it could have. So I think that was fair and reasonable.
Mr B wanted to retain the vans salvage. In that event, Im satisfied that Covea is entitled to 
deduct from its settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. Covea 
has provided us with commercially sensitive information to show what it would have obtained 
for the vans salvage. I cant share this with Mr B, but I can reassure him that Ive checked 
this carefully and Im satisfied that Coveas deduction for the salvage value was correctly 
applied to its final settlement offer. 
Mr B was concerned that the salvage amount had increased during the claim. The amount is 
calculated as a percentage. So if a higher settlement offer was made, then the salvage 
amount would also increase. 
Covea also deducted £100 from the settlement for the policy excess. This is always the first 
part of a claim to be paid by a consumer. And I think that was in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions and fair and reasonable. So I cant say that Covea did anything wrong 
in deducting this. 
Mr B thought he was dual insured and entitled to a pro-rata refund of premium. But I cant 
see that he has given Covea a chance to consider and respond to this concern. So I cant 
consider this point further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman