DRN-2193646
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt treat her fairly when she asked it to extend 
the term of the interest only part of her mortgage. 
What happened
Miss J has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. Part of the mortgage is on an interest only 
basis, and the remainder is on a capital repayment basis. Miss J says she was told when 
she took out the mortgage that shed be able to extend the term. 
In early 2019 Miss J asked Halifax to extend the term of the interest only part of her 
mortgage, to align it with her planned retirement age of 70. She plans to repay the balance 
with a pension lump sum payment. 
Our investigator said the rules allowed Bank of Scotland to extend the term regardless of 
affordability, if this is in Miss Js best interests. But as she hadnt continued with the 
application Bank of Scotland didnt have an opportunity to consider this.
Miss J didnt agree. She said Bank of Scotland suggested she also switch the interest only 
part of the mortgage to capital repayment and this resulted in her request being declined. 
She says the only change she wants is a term extension for the interest only part of her 
mortgage. Miss J says the rules on mortgage regulation allow this without going through a 
formal application process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J feels strongly that the transitional arrangements allow the term of her mortgage to be 
extended without a formal process. So Ill set out my understand of the relevant rules here.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. These exceptions are 
sometimes referred to as the transitional arrangements. First, where an existing mortgage is 
to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to affordability, an 
affordability assessment isnt required. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender 
still doesnt have to carry out an assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided 
the loan balance hasnt increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers 
best interests. This second exception is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules on 
mortgage regulation at MCOB 11.7.1.
I should say here that these rules dont oblige the lender to make changes to a mortgage. 
They only say that changes dont have to be refused on grounds of affordability or 
repayment strategy. Changes can still fairly be refused on other grounds.
And I should also say that the rules dont say a lender cant assess affordability. And it could 
be fair for a lender to consider affordability when considering whether a change is in the 
borrowers best interests. 
With this in mind, Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly here.
Miss J had become the sole borrower in 2016 and the mortgage offer from that time said her 
repayment plan was her pension policy and stocks and shares ISA. Theres no suggestion 
Miss J was concerned she wouldnt be able to repay the mortgage. She wanted to extend 
the term to fit in better with her plans.
A term extension is a material change likely to affect affordability (whether or not theres a 
switch to capital repayment as well). So the first exception I mentioned doesnt apply. But the 
second exception, set out in MCOB 11.7.1, could apply, allowing Bank of Scotland to agree 
to changes to Miss Js mortgage without demonstrating affordability if it would be in Miss Js 
best interests. 
Miss J met with Bank of Scotlands mortgage adviser in early 2019. Ive listened to a 
recording of the meeting, although I found it unclear in parts. Ive also taken into account 
notes of the meeting and what Miss J and Bank of Scotland have said. 
Bank of Scotland told Miss J her request for a term extension wasnt within its policy  her 
repayment vehicle wasnt acceptable. However, this was based on the information Bank of 
Scotland had. The adviser asked Miss J if she could provide evidence of her pension, to 
support what shed said about it in the meeting. 
Miss J didnt pursue her application as she didnt think Bank of Scotland was applying the 
rules on mortgage regulation fairly. I think Bank of Scotland could have explained better how 
the rules might apply to Miss Js application if she continued  especially as Miss J and the 
person accompanying her asked about the transitional arrangements. But I dont think this 
would have changed the outcome. Miss J says the transitional arrangements allow her to 
extend the term without a review. She hasnt changed her mind about this while the 
complaint has been with us. 
I dont agree with Miss Js interpretation of the rules. If Bank of Scotland is to rely on the 
exception in MCOB 11.7.1 it has to assess that the change is in Miss Js best interests. It 
needs information about her circumstances to do this. It might even decide the application 
meets affordability criteria if it receives up to date evidence about Miss Js pension. I dont 
think its wrong or unfair for Bank of Scotland to ask Miss J to go through its application and 
review process  this is its process for collecting the information it needs. 
Miss J says she was told when she took out the mortgage that she could extend the term 
without a review. Even if she was told this, I dont think its reasonable to say that Bank of 
Scotland should now extend her term without a review. Mortgage regulations have changed 
significantly since Miss J took out the mortgage. Bank of Scotland has to act in accordance 
with regulations now in force.What happens now?
I dont think Bank of Scotland treated Miss J unfairly when it didnt agree to extend her 
mortgage term without a review. So I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Miss J has provided information to us about her pension. Shes also explained her plans for 
work and retirement and the benefit to her of extending the term. 
I think theres scope here for Bank of Scotland to consider fairly Miss Js request to extend 
the term of her mortgage, taking account of the best interests exception in MCOB 11.7.1 if it 
finds the extension doesnt meet affordability requirements. But Miss J would need to go 
through Bank of Scotlands application and review process. I leave it to Miss J to decide 
whether to do this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman