DRN-2344197
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly declined a claim for critical illness 
benefit under a term assurance policy.
What happened
Mr A holds a decreasing term assurance policy with his wife. The policy started in 
March 2011 and initially provided cover of £138,000 which decreased over the 24 year term.
In January 2019 Mr A was diagnosed with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a 
form of cancer. So, a claim was submitted under the policy. Zurich considered the claim but 
declined it on the grounds that skin cancers are excluded and because Mr As DFSP wasnt 
invasive.
Mr A appealed, providing evidence from his consultant, Mr J, who said DFSP should be 
considered as a sarcoma rather than a skin cancer. He also said DFSP was, by its nature, 
invasive and had malignant potential. Zurich didnt change its decision, so Mr A referred his 
complaint to our service via a representative.
I provided a final decision explaining that I didnt think the available evidence showed Mr As 
DFSP was invasive, which was a requirement of the cancer definition under the policy terms.
Following this, Mr A provided new evidence from Mr J and some other specialists whod 
been asked to review his case  Dr M and Professor M  to Zurich to consider. He thought 
the new evidence demonstrated that his cancer was a sarcoma, not a skin cancer and that it 
was invasive. But Zurich declined the claim again as it still considered DFSP to be a form of 
skin cancer and was therefore excluded under the policy.
Mr A referred a new complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
thought that the available evidence demonstrated Mr As DFSP was invasive. The 
investigator said that the cancer definition expressly included sarcomas but excluded skin 
cancers, and as DFSP can be considered as both, there was an ambiguity in the term that 
should be interpreted in favour of Mr A. So, he thought the claim should be paid.
Zurich didnt agree. It said that it was clear from the way the cancer definition was 
constructed that regardless of the type of tumour, all skin cancers were excluded except for 
malignant melanoma. Zurich said its definition was almost identical to the definition set out 
by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and was clear. It asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that Zurich should pay Mr As claim for critical illness benefit. Ill 
explain why.
Under the terms of Mr As policy, cancer is defined as follows:
Cancer - excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
- pre-malignant
- non-invasive
- cancer in situ
- having either borderline malignancy or having low malignant potential.
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having progressed 
to at least Binet Stage A.
Any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been histologically 
classified as having caused invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of skin).
I should first say that Im satisfied that the new evidence provided by Dr J, a letter dated 
17 December 2019, confirms Mr As cancer is a large and invasive tumour. For this reason, 
I think it meets the first part of the definition. So, the remaining issue to address is whether 
the cancer is otherwise excluded.
Zurich says that the words, for the above definition, the following are not covered makes 
it clear to policyholders that the exclusions listed below apply to anything stated in the 
preceding sentences within the definition. So, whilst the term states that sarcomas are 
included in the term malignant tumour, the exclusions beneath will still apply regardless of 
the type of tumour.
 
Ive considered Zurichs comments carefully, but Im not persuaded that the cancer exclusion 
adequately provides for Mr As particular scenario. Based on the evidence provided by 
Mr As consultant and the additional comments provided by the specialists, it seems to me 
that DFSP is not a skin cancer in the conventional sense. In his letter of 26 June 2019, Mr J 
stated:
In 2013 the 4th edition of the World Health Organisation Classification of soft tissue and 
bone tumours confirmed that in fact DFSP ought to be considered under the heading of 
Sarcoma and that it does not arise in fact from the skin in the way skin cancers would be 
described. This is because skin cancers arise from the epidermis (upper layer of the skin) 
and this indeed gives rise to the most common skin cancers basal cell carcinoma, squamous 
cell carcinoma and malignant melanoma. DFSP by its very nature arises from fibroblastic 
change within the dermis and invades down from there. As such DFSP is not to be 
considered as a skin cancer and this is therefore reflected in the WHO document of 2013.In a letter of 13 February 2020, Dr M said:
What we can say about DFSP, is that it is not a skin cancer in the sense that is implied by 
the definition any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been histologically 
classified as having caused invasion beyond the epidermis. That definition implies that the 
tumours they are referring to begin in the epidermis, and subsequently invade down into the 
dermis and beyond. These would include squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell 
carcinoma, which I can fully appreciate being excluded on the basis that both tumours are 
common, and associated with relatively low morbidity compared to DFSP.
DFSP on the other hand, is a malignant tumour of soft tissue origin (sarcoma) that arises 
beneath the surface, and only manifests on the skin surface many years, indeed sometimes 
decades after its inception. Although it can very occasionally get picked up in the dermis 
alone, it has nearly always attained a large size by the time it surfaces and comes to the 
patients or physicians notice. It is therefore not possible to say where most of these 
tumours originated. I believe therefore, that DFSP falls outside the criterion for exclusion 
contained in the term provided by Zurich.
Dr Ms position was further supported by Professor M, who in his letter of 25 February 2020 
said:
I entirely agree with Dr [M]s comments. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is not a 
skin tumour in the sense implied by the insurers.
DFSP is classified by the WHO as a dermal/subcutaneous low grade sarcoma.
Im also mindful that in Zurichs terms and conditions, an extra explanation is given about the 
skin cancer exclusion:
All forms of skin cancer are excluded apart from invasive malignant melanoma. Invasive 
malignant melanoma is a serious form of cancer but other skin cancers are usually easily 
treated, unlikely to spread and not life threatening.
This supports Dr M and Professor Ms comments about the types of skin cancer that the 
policy is seeking to exclude, and why DFSP shouldnt be caught by the exclusion.
Overall, I dont think it is sufficiently clear from the exclusion of any skin cancer that DFSP 
isnt covered. I say this because Mr As consultants have provided evidence to say that in 
their professional opinion, his cancer is primarily a soft tissue sarcoma that presents in the 
skin, rather than a skin cancer. And Dr M was firmly of the view that DFSP didnt fall within 
the scope of the skin cancer exclusion. The fact that sarcomas are expressly included in 
the definition of malignant tumour supports this view.
Furthermore, Zurichs definition (which essentially mirrors the ABIs definition from the 
statement of best practice applicable at the time the policy was taken out) includes an 
exclusion for Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having 
progressed to at least Binet Stage A. This makes it clear to the policyholder that although 
leukaemia is expressly covered, Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is only covered if it meets a 
specific level of severity. Whereas there is no such qualification in respect of sarcomas. And 
as Ive said above, there is a sufficient weight of medical opinion here that DFSP is primarily 
viewed as a soft tissue sarcoma rather than a skin cancer.
For the reasons set out above, I think the cancer definition is ambiguous as to whether a 
sarcoma presenting in the skin is excluded from cover. And it is this ambiguity in the terms that I believe should be interpreted in favour of the consumer in the particular circumstances 
of this claim.
I have taken into account Zurichs comments that its cancer definition is based on the ABIs 
cancer definition. But I dont think that necessarily means that it can possibly cover every 
scenario that may arise. There will always be instances where the ABI definitions dont 
adequately deal with particular presentations of certain illnesses; it is for this reason that the 
definitions remain under review and are changed as and when it is required. 
In light of the above, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to accept Mr As claim 
for critical illness benefit. 
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Mr A's critical illness claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Interest should be added at a rate of 8% simple (less tax if properly deductible) from the date 
the claim was declined for the second time to the date of settlement.
As cover under the policy ends at the point the claim is accepted, any premiums Mr A has 
paid since the claim was declined again should be refunded with interest at the same rate as 
above from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay Mr As claim for critical illness benefit, refund any extra 
premiums paid and add interest as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman