DRN-2727232
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Services Limited misrepresented the cover that was 
available to him when he renewed his Homecare 100 boiler policy in December 2019. So he 
believes that the premium he paid for the policy should be refunded.
What happened
Mr K had a homecare policy with British Gas for some years which covered his domestic 
boiler. In December 2019 he received his policy renewal documents for the period from 23 
January 2019 to 22 January 2020. The renewal documents contained the following 
information: -
Our records show that your boiler is a Keston Boiler C 55.
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while 
ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts 
are becoming difficult to source.
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our 
best to keep it running for as long as possible.
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund 
backdated to when you last had work done, or when you renewed your agreement  
whichevers the most recent.
Mr K says that the heat exchanger is the most important part of a boiler and that the 
manufacturers website states that this part, for his boiler, was withdrawn on 11 November 
2015. Hes also told us that he spoke to British Gas, who told him, they had 75 heat 
exchangers, of the model required by his boiler, in 2016, but none after this date. 
So he says the information provided in his renewal notice, about the availability of parts for 
his boiler, isnt correct. And had he known the heat exchanger was no longer being 
manufactured, and that British Gas didnt have any in stock he wouldnt have renewed his 
cover. So he wants the premium of £411.28 he paid for boiler breakdown cover from 23 
January 2019 and 22 January 2020 refunded. 
Mr K complained to British Gas who didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd made it 
clear in the renewal documents hed been sent that if his boiler broke down, they might not 
be able to fix it. But having this information hed made the decision to renew his policy. And if 
his boiler had broken down, and they hadnt been able to repair it, he may have been offered 
a refund of his premium. 
Mr K was unhappy with this response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. She said British Gas had met their 
policy obligation to send Mr K details of his renewal at least 25 days in advance of his 
renewal date. And she said the letter met the FCAs requirements as it encouraged Mr K to 
shop around to find the best cover. 
Mr K was particularly concerned that the renewal that British Gas has misrepresented the 
availability of replacement heat exchangers, which he considers to be the most important 
part of his boiler. Our investigator said we wouldnt expect British Gas to specific exactly 
what parts were still being manufactured, or were available, for each individual boiler. She 
felt theyd done enough by notifying Mr K that some of the parts for his boiler were on a 
reduced parts list.
And while Mr K believes British Gas couldnt have provided a replacement heat exchanger if 
this was needed, he hadnt needed to make a claim, so this was speculation. So our 
investigator felt theyd done enough by making it clear some parts werent available in his 
renewal letter. And if hed needed to make a claim for a heat exchanger, which they couldnt 
provide, he may have been entitled to a refund of his premium.
She also considered that Mr K had told us that the heat exchanger had been discontinued in 
November 2015, and that British Gas told him they had a stock of 75 in August 2016. British 
Gas have told us their records dont show when their stock of heat exchangers ran out. Our 
investigator felt this showed theyd only check the availability, of a particular part, when it 
was required, so she didnt think theyd been any misrepresentation.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said that the renewal letter said the most 
important parts of his boiler were still being made, but the heat exchanger wasnt, and as 
British Gas had told him they hadnt had a stock of heat exchangers since 2016, our 
investigator had to conclude that theyd been a misrepresentation.
Our investigator considered this but didnt change her opinion. She said that just because 
British Gas didnt have their own stock of heat exchangers, this didnt mean they wouldnt 
have been able to source one from elsewhere. And as Mr K had never made a claim, she 
couldnt say whether British Gas wouldve been able to repair his boiler if the heat exchanger 
had failed.
Mr K remained unhappy with our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the renewal letter British Gas sent to Mr Ks in December 2018. I dont think 
theres anything misleading about the renewal letter. British Gas alerted Mr K to the fact that 
his boiler was no longer being manufactured, and if it broke down some parts were getting 
difficult to source and it might not be repairable. At the time this doesnt appear to have 
concerned Mr K, as he renewed his policy. 
The letter doesnt provide a list of the important parts British Gas say are still being 
manufactured and I wouldnt expect it to. A boiler, like any machine, is going to have a 
number of parts which are necessary for it to function. Mr K believes that the heat exchanger 
is the most important part of his boiler. It appears that he first raised the issue about the 
availability of replacement heat exchangers on 17 January 2020, when he called British Gas 
to tell them he wasnt going to renew his policy.
Mr K had clearly made enquiries and has provided us with a screenshot from the 
manufacturers website, showing that heat exchanger kits were not available. When he 
spoke to British Gas on 17 January 2020, their call notes show that their parts department 
confirmed they had no heat exchangers for his make of boiler in stock. But Mr K was told that simply because they couldnt get the part from the manufacturer, this didnt mean they 
couldnt obtain it from somewhere else. 
We asked British Gas for further information and theyve told us that they have an internal 
system which allows them to view parts, and which tells them if an appliance is no longer 
being manufactured.  Based on this they advised Mr K that his boiler was no longer being 
manufactured and they might have difficulty obtaining parts if it needed repairing. Their 
records show that Mr K had his annual boiler service in July 2019. Mr K hasnt raised any 
concerns about the service, so his boiler appears to have been working correctly at this time.
We asked British Gas what they would have done if Mr Ks boiler had required a heat 
exchanger. Theyve told us the part would have been mass produced so theyd have 
contacted local suppliers to see if they had old stock, as thousands of other merchants 
would have stored the part. And if they couldnt source the part, theyd have advised Mr K to 
replace his boiler. We also asked them when they last fitted a heat exchanger to Mr Ks 
make of boiler. Theyve told us dont have a record of this information.
I can understand Mr Ks concern that if his boiler had required a heat exchanger, British Gas 
may not have been able to provide one. But his boiler didnt break down during the period of 
his cover, and even if it had, we cant know whether a heat exchanger would have been 
required. In the renewal letter Mr K was sent British Gas didnt specifically state that the heat 
exchanger was still being manufactured, so I dont agree that there was any 
misrepresentation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr K complaint against 
British Gas Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman