DRN-3550804
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London avoided (treated it 
as if it never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Lloyds through an online price comparison site. 
When his car was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Lloyds declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr M complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about his 
occupation incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy. Lloyds said it declined the claim 
because Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care of his car, which was a breach of the policys 
terms and conditions. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She didnt agree there had been a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation, but that Mr M had 
answered the question about his occupation as best he could. So she said Lloyds should 
remove any records of the avoidance, refund Mr Ms premiums pro-rata, refund any 
cancellation charge and pay him £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. But she 
thought Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care of his car and this was material to the claim. So 
she thought Lloyds was entitled to decline the claim. 
Lloyds doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It 
said Mr M had deliberately not disclosed information about his additional occupations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to avoid Mr Ms policy 
because of misrepresentation. The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Lloyds thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that his occupation was as a security officer, 
but he didnt disclose two directorships he held. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if he 
had disclosed these. 
Ive looked at the question Mr M was asked when he completed the application and I dont 
agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is because I dont think he was asked a clear 
and specific question that would have led him to disclose the directorships. 
Mr M was asked what his employment status was and then what his main occupation was. 
The customer is prompted to select their employment status and then select their main 
occupation and what industry they work in. If a customer is unsure of what they need to 
enter, there are prompts, one of which states:
please choose the employment status that reflects the majority of the work you do. For 
example, if you are a house person and have a part time job of 5 hours a week, you should 
select House person/parent as your primary job.
The customer is then asked if they have any other occupation. But Mr M wasnt provided 
with any hints or additional information to prompt him to disclose the directorships.
Mr M chose security officer as his main occupation as he worked in this job full-time. And, 
from what I can see, Mr M answered No to other occupations. Lloyds thinks Mr M should 
then have disclosed the directorships. But Mr M has explained that he did no work and didnt 
receive any income from these. So I can understand that Mr M wouldnt regard these as 
occupations and so I think he answered the question as best he could. 
Lloyds said it thought Mr M had been deliberate or reckless in not disclosing information 
about his directorships.
For a misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, CIDRA says that Lloyds must be able 
to show that Mr M knew the information he provided was untrue or misleading or did not care 
whether it was untrue or misleading; and knew that the matter to which the 
misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was 
relevant to the insurer.
Im not satisfied that Lloyds has shown that Mr M intentionally withheld information about his 
directorships to be misleading. Looking at the question Mr M was asked, I dont think he 
answered it inaccurately and I cant see that he was presented with any questions that 
wouldve made him aware that he needed to disclose the directorships as his occupation. 
So Im satisfied that Mr M took reasonable care and didnt make a qualifying 
misrepresentation when he took out the policy. As such, I dont think Lloyds was entitled to 
avoid Mr Ms policy and retain the premiums under CIDRA.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
not allowing Lloyds to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
I think, to put things right, Lloyds should remove any records of the avoidance, it should 
refund Mr Ms premium pro-rata from the date of loss, refund any cancellation fee charged, 
and pay Mr M compensation for his trouble and upset. Our Investigator recommended that 
Lloyds should pay Mr M £250 compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance. Lloyds said it had declined Mr Ms claim because of a breach of policy terms. It said he 
hadnt taken reasonable care of his car. Our Investigator has explained our approach where 
its alleged that the policyholder hasnt taken reasonable care. We apply a two stage test. 
Firstly we need to consider whether the condition has been breached. And then, if we think a 
condition of the policy has been breached, we consider whether this made a material 
difference to the claim.
I can see that the policy states that the policyholder must take all reasonable steps to protect 
their vehicle from loss or damage. I think this is a common term in motor insurance policies, 
and I dont find it unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set 
out clearly in the policy wording. 
I can see that the term is included in the General Conditions section of the policy on page 20 
of the policy booklet. And the consumer is warned that a claim may be declined if the 
requirement isnt met. So I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on it to decline a 
claim.  
Ive looked at what Mr M told Lloyds about the circumstances of the theft. Mr M left his car, 
unattended, in a quiet, poorly lit spot 30 minutes walk away from his home for five days. 
During this time the car was stolen. Neither Mr M nor the named driver on the policy 
attempted to collect the car in this time. 
So I cant say that Mr M ensured that his car was kept safe or that he took all reasonable 
steps to protect it. So Im satisfied that Mr M breached the policy term. And I think this was 
material to the claim as the length of time that Mr Ms car was left unattended made it more 
vulnerable to theft. 
So Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to decline the claim because of the breach of a 
policy term that was material to the claim. 
Putting things right
I require Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London to do the following:
1. Remove the avoidance from any databases where its been recorded. 
2. Pay Mr M a pro-rata refund in relation to the premium paid. If a cancellation fee was 
added to the premium Mr M had to pay, this should be refunded. 
3. Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London to carry out the redress set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman