DRN-3445531
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (trading as Black Horse Partner Finance) mis-sold him 
a term assurance policy when he took out his mortgage.
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1995. It was a condition of this mortgage that Mr A 
had life cover in place, so he was sold a term assurance policy to match the term and 
amount of the mortgage. Mr A repaid his mortgage in 1998 and cancelled the policy.
Mr A recently complained about the policy. He said that he was unhappy at the time as he 
had Death in Service (DIS) benefits from his employer but he was told he had to have the 
policy to get the mortgage. Mr A says he didnt need the cover.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that Lloyds was 
entitled to decide its lending conditions, and getting life cover was a condition of Mr As 
mortgage. The Investigator said that if Mr A didnt want that cover, he had a choice to look 
for a mortgage elsewhere. The Investigator also explained why having employee benefits 
didnt make the life cover unsuitable.
Mr A disagreed. He explained that his situation meant his purchase was time sensitive, and 
he didnt feel like he had the opportunity to seek lending elsewhere. He said it wouldve been 
fair for Lloyds to put in a condition to have cover if his DIS benefits ceased, but didnt feel it 
was fair to impose it as a condition whilst he had this benefit in place. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a same outcome as the investigator for similar reasons. Im not 
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
It was a condition of Mr As mortgage that he had life cover in place. Lloyds is entitled to set 
its lending conditions, and for Mr A, if he wanted to accept the mortgage, hed have to 
arrange suitable life cover. The cover he was sold satisfied the lending condition.
If Mr A didnt want to purchase the life cover, hed have needed to find a different lender. 
Hes explained why this wouldve been difficult at the time, and I understand his purchase 
was time pressured, particularly as he was posted abroad. However, this doesnt mean that 
Lloyds has acted unreasonably. The condition for the mortgage was explained to Mr A and 
he chose to accept those terms.
Ive noted that Mr A had DIS benefits through his employer. And I can understand why he 
felt this could be used to pay off his mortgage if hed passed away. However, employee 
benefits can change and arent guaranteed. So, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to sell Mr A a term assurance policy to match his lending to satisfy his mortgage 
condition.
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. However, as his policy was a 
condition of the lending, and he chose to take this lending and accept this condition, I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman