DRN-2851379
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) initially declined 
their legal expenses claim. They complain that RSAs poor handling of the claim has caused 
them to suffer distress.
Any reference to RSA includes its agents and claim handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a legal expenses insurance policy which is underwritten by RSA. 
On 17 June 2020, Mr and Mrs L sought cover from RSA to defend an injunction claim 
being made against them. 
To validate the policy, RSA asked Mr and Mrs L to provide their policy schedule and 
to complete a questionnaire.
On 23 June, RSA requested further information from Mr and Mrs L to support their 
claim.
On 29 June, RSA told Mr and Mrs L that it wouldnt be able to contact them via 
telephone due to remote working, but that it would review things and be in touch as 
soon as possible.
On 1 July, Mr and Mrs L complained about the service theyd received.
On the same day, RSA told Mr and Mrs L they didnt have a valid claim because the 
original dispute arose before the policy started. 
It also said the policy didnt cover anything to do with extending a property  which 
was the subject matter of the injunction. And it referred to a general exclusion which 
states cover isnt provided where the event is reported more than six months after it 
happened.
However, on 7 July, RSA changed its position having been made aware that Mr and 
Mrs L had legal expenses cover since 2008. So, it was satisfied the dispute occurred 
within the period of insurance. And it said the exclusion in respect of extending a 
property didnt apply in this situation.
So, RSA advised there was potential cover under the policy and that the next step 
was to obtain a legal merits assessment commenting on the prospects of success 
and proportionality of the claim. 
The next day, Mr and Mrs L said a court hearing date had been set for 13 July 2020 
and that due to RSAs misunderstanding about whether they had cover, theyd been 
left with no choice but to instruct their own solicitor.
On 17 July, RSA provided a copy of the legal assessment from their panel solicitors, 
and a copy of their terms of business was sent to Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor. 
RSA said it didnt hear back from the solicitor and so it contacted them again on 23 
July. 
The solicitor responded on 26 July asking if the policy would cover mediation costs, 
an application to the Lands Tribunal and the legal costs for the hearing. 
On 3 August, RSA responded and confirmed it was seeking underwriting approval as 
to whether the policy would cover this. RSA also asked the solicitor for a copy of their 
time ledger so it could consider back-dating cover.
On 10 August, RSA agreed to cover mediation costs subject to its approval and 
providing there were reasonable prospects of settling the matter.  It asked for more 
information in respect of the Lands Tribunal and hearing before agreeing to cover the 
costs. At the time of its final response, RSA was still awaiting this information.
RSA is satisfied its handled Mr and Mrs Ls claim fairly. It said it cant confirm cover 
until its satisfied there is a valid policy and that the claim meets the policys terms 
and conditions. 
RSA said it informed Mr and Mrs L on 23 June 2020 that it would only be able to 
consider appointing their own solicitor when it became necessary for the matter to go 
to court.
RSA said there is reference to claim letters dating back to 26 April 2018, so its 
arguable Mr and Mrs L were aware there had been legal involvement for a 
considerable period. 
It explained why it hadnt been able to make telephone calls at times  referring to 
the impact of the pandemic and its staff having to work from home. 
Since the final response letter, RSA has confirmed its covered the tribunal fee, 
mediation costs, Mr and Mrs Ls solicitors fees, a surveyors fees plus other 
disbursements.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said: 
oThe evidence shows Mr and Mrs L were aware of potential legal action some 
time before they submitted a claim to RSA  had it been submitted sooner 
some of the pressure would have been alleviated. 
oIt wasnt unreasonable for RSA to say it would take a couple of weeks for 
cover to be confirmed  as without an assessment and validating the policy 
its not possible to confirm either way. 
oShe acknowledged RSA had made an error in declining the claim and saying 
the event occurred before the policy started, but as RSA had corrected itself 
quickly, she didnt think thered been a detrimental impact on the overall 
progression of the claim. And in any event, Mr and Mrs L had already 
instructed their own solicitor.
oShe noted that RSA had to chase Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor for information 
which caused delays. But she didnt agree that RSA had caused three weeks 
of delays as suggested by Mr and Mrs L.
oThe third party provided a short response date for the hearing, and she 
thought this limited RSAs ability to confirm what they could and couldnt do in 
a reasonable period.
oRSA has covered invoices for the costs which Mr and Mrs L claimed for, so 
she didnt agree theyd suffered financial detriment.
oWhile she acknowledged the situation had been stressful for Mr and Mrs L, 
she didnt think it was fair to attribute this to RSAs handling of the claim.
Because Mr and Mrs L disagree - they maintained the RSA caused delays 
throughout the life of the claim - the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken in to account the 
requirements set by the Regulator, which include that insurers must deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. Having done so, Im not 
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that RSA initially declined their legal expenses claim. RSA 
recognised that it had acted unfairly in doing so, and within a few days rectified matters by 
confirming there was a valid policy and that it could potentially cover the claim - subject to a 
prospects of success and proportionality assessment. 
I dont doubt there would have a been a degree of frustration on Mr and Mrs Ls part 
because of RSAs mistake. But I have to balance this with the fact RSA put things right 
quickly and so, their frustration was limited to a few days. Ive also seen that RSA has since 
paid invoices for the legal fees and disbursements, and so, Mr and Mrs L havent suffered a 
financial detriment as a result of RSAs initial mistake.
Mr and Mrs L have said they were left with no choice but to instruct their own solicitor 
because of RSAs mistake. But I dont think thats an entirely fair reflection of events. I say 
this because its apparent Mr and Mrs L had known for some time prior to contacting RSA 
that legal action was likely  evidence shows the third partys solicitor had written to them in 
May 2020, and that the injunction claim was made to the court on 8 June 2020. However,    
Mr and Mrs L contacted RSA nine days later. Had they contacted RSA sooner they could 
have alleviated some of the pressure they felt to get cover approved immediately and given 
RSA a more realistic timeframe in which to validate the policy and potentially cover. 
While understandably Mr and Mrs L wanted assurance that they had cover, its not 
reasonable to expect this to be confirmed within a matter of days of notifying RSA of their 
claim.  It took approximately four weeks for RSA to send its terms of business to Mr and Mrs 
Ls solicitor  which isnt an unreasonable amount of time given RSA needed to validate the 
policy and ensure there were prospects of success (both of which take time) before agreeing 
to cover. For the avoidance of doubt, this is the standard process and all insurers would 
need to do this before agreeing cover. So, I cant say RSA acted unfairly in doing so. 
I have to keep in mind that Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor added to the time it took to progress the 
claim because they didnt return the declaration agreeing to RSAs terms of business at the 
earliest opportunity. So, its not reasonable to say but for RSAs initial mistake cover would 
have been agreed prior to the hearing taking place on 13 July, and Mr and Mrs L would have 
avoided having to pay costs upfront.
From what Ive seen, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs L that RSA caused avoidable delays 
throughout the handling of the claim  and I am therefore, not persuaded that RSA needs to 
pay them compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
It follows that for the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman