DRN-3438219
The complaint
Ms M complains about systemic racism at National Westminster Bank plc. Shes unhappy 
that the bank included her brokers ethnicity on her mortgage application, and says this is 
evidence of discrimination and unfair treatment. 
What happened
Ms M took out a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest in 2008. She didnt maintain the mortgage 
payments, so in 2010 NatWest began legal action to repossess the property. Ms M later 
moved into the property, but NatWest ultimately took it into possession and sold it.
Ms M complained to NatWest and also to the Financial Ombudsman about the sale of the 
mortgage and NatWests treatment of her in recovering the mortgage debt. An Ombudsman 
here issued a final decision about that in 2016.
Ms M subsequently made a subject access request to NatWest, and received a copy of her 
completed mortgage application and NatWests accompanying notes. Those notes said Ms 
Ms application had been made by her Asian broker.
Ms M complained. She said this is evidence of systemic racism at NatWest, and shows that 
her mortgage was mis-sold. She said she was a young black woman on maternity leave in 
2008, and NatWest took advantage of her and discriminated against her.  
NatWest said Ms M had already had its responses to her complaints and it wouldnt enter 
into further discussion. It set out what it was doing to tackle inequality.
Our Investigator found the Financial Ombudsman had already made a decision about the 
sale of Ms Ms mortgage in 2016, and said we wouldnt reconsider a complaint about the 
sale now. She said we could look into Ms Ms complaint about what NatWest had put on her 
application, as that was a new issue which had only recently come to light. She concluded 
that the brokers race was irrelevant, but she didnt think that including it on Ms Ms 
application meant Ms M had been sold the wrong mortgage. 
Ms M didnt accept that and asked for a review. She didnt accept that racism had nothing to 
do with the mortgage she was sold and NatWests later treatment of her, and she felt her 
complaint had simply been dismissed without proper consideration. 
My provisional decision
The complaint came to me to decide, and I issued a provisional decision. I said:
I recognise that Ms M wants answers, and to know why NatWests staff member included 
her brokers ethnicity in its records. NatWest hasnt been able to answer that question. It 
has, however, told us that the staff member concerned no longer works for it, and it hasnt 
received any other allegations of discrimination against that particular individual. 
The Financial Ombudsman isnt a court, so we cant require the staff member to give 
evidence or cross-examine him, for example. This means I cant give Ms M the answers she 
wants. However, I can still make findings about this complaint and decide a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
I think the inclusion of the brokers ethnicity on NatWests notes was unnecessary, irrelevant 
and discriminatory. It doesnt necessarily follow, though, that Ms M was sold the mortgage 
she was or the wrong mortgage as a result of that particular piece of information having 
been included in her application. 
NatWest has said its records show that Ms Ms mortgage application was assessed in line 
with its usual process. Ive looked at its notes as a whole, and I can see that the underwriter 
gave detailed consideration to Ms Ms application and the risks it presented. He gave 
reasons for his decision to grant the application, and those reasons appear to be based on 
the sorts of factors Id expect to be taken into account in this type of lending decision.
Taken as a whole, while including a note of the brokers ethnicity was inappropriate and 
unnecessary, I find no evidence that it was a factor in the lending decision that was made. 
So, while this is new evidence that wasnt available to Ms M when we decided her previous 
complaint about the sale of her mortgage, I dont think it changes the overall conclusion the 
Ombudsman reached in 2016 that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. 
However, I think that what NatWest put in its notes about the broker has caused Ms M to 
question its treatment of her in the light of her own ethnicity, and I can see that she has 
found this upsetting. I think she has been caused avoidable distress, and that she should 
fairly receive an apology and some compensation from NatWest. 
In all the circumstances, I consider £200 a fair award. Ms M would like a resolution to her 
complaint to go further than that, but there are limits to the Financial Ombudsmans powers: I 
cant, for example, require NatWest to change its policies or discipline or re-train its staff. 
Were a dispute resolution service, not a regulator or a court. I would nevertheless expect 
NatWest to learn from the complaints it receives and the Ombudsman decisions it receives, 
and I hope Ms M will find some reassurance in that.
I propose to require National Westminster Bank plc to send Ms M a written apology for 
including her brokers ethnicity on her mortgage application, and to pay her £200 by way of 
compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted my provisional decision, but Ms M did not. She still felt the mortgage had 
been mis-sold, NatWest hadnt provided appropriate support when she was in financial 
difficulty, and £200 and a letter of apology were nothing like enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful consideration to what Ms M has said in response to my provisional 
decision, but her comments havent changed my mind about what I consider to be a fair 
outcome to this complaint.To be clear, I havent taken a view on whether NatWest is doing enough to tackle inequality. 
That is not a decision for me to make; my remit is to decide individual complaints on their 
particular merits  as Ive done here.
Ms M says she still thinks Asian broker on her application meant NatWest lent to her when 
it wouldnt otherwise have done, and without doing proper checks. But I find no other 
evidence to support that, and Im not persuaded that the inclusion of this information was a 
factor either in NatWests decision to lend to Ms M on the basis it did or in its treatment of 
her when she was in financial difficulty. Ms M has also already seen a copy of NatWests 
notes in respect of her application.
I recognise that Ms M expects to receive more compensation than the £200 I am awarding 
here. The awards the Financial Ombudsman makes are to reflect the impact of a financial 
businesss failings. Given my finding that what NatWest put on its records didnt affect its 
decision to lend to Ms M, I cant fairly award compensation for the subsequent 
homelessness and illnesses for which Ms M considers it should be responsible.
I remain of the view that the brokers ethnicity shouldnt have been put on Ms Ms 
application, and that the fact it was has caused Ms M avoidable distress. However, while I 
know this isnt the outcome Ms M wants, I also remain of the view that £200 is a fair and 
reasonable award of compensation in all the circumstances. 
I confirm my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank plc should pay Ms M £200 
compensation, and send her a written apology for including her brokers ethnicity on her 
mortgage application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman