DRN-3878622
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy and didnt give him an opportunity to challenge this. He wants the cancellation 
removed. 
What happened
Mr Y took out a telematics motor insurance policy with Aioi Nissay Dowa through an online 
comparison site and then he completed the purchase over the telephone. When the 
technician came to fit a telematics box to Mr Ys car, he noticed that the car had been 
modified.  
Aioi Nissay Dowa said Mr Y had answered the question it asked about modifications 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to cancel his policy. But Mr Y thought hed told Aioi Nissay Dowa about the 
modifications. He also thought it hadnt given him a chance to challenge the decision to 
cancel his policy. 
Mr Y brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. He 
thought Aioi Nissay Dowa had asked a clear question about modifications to the car and he 
thought Mr Y had said there were none. But the car had a number of post-manufacture 
modifications. He saw that Aioi Nissay Dowa wouldnt have offered cover at all if it had 
known about these. And so he thought it was entitled to cancel the policy in keeping with its 
terms and conditions. He thought Mr Y wouldnt have been able to challenge the decision as 
there were no other options available. 
Mr Y doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr Y 
said he was inexperienced when he took out his policy. He thought he should have been 
given opportunity to cancel the policy himself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the policy cancellation has had a serious financial impact on Mr Y. And 
Ive seen that he was inexperienced when he took out the policy and completed the online 
forms. I can also understand that he feels unfairly treated. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aioi Nissay Dowa thinks Mr Y failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said his car didnt have any post-manufacture modifications
Ive looked at the question that Mr Y was asked on the comparison site he used. I think he 
was asked a clear question about whether his car had any modifications. And he answered 
No on the several quotes he looked for. Mr Y later recalled that he had answered Yes, 
and he said he had entered several modifications online. But I havent seen any evidence to 
support this. 
Mr Y then called Aioi Nissay Dowa to complete his purchase. The agent checked whether he 
had completed the online application correctly and he was asked to confirm that the car had 
no modifications. So, although Mr Y may have had difficulty with the online forms, I think he 
could have answered the question asked on the phone correctly. 
So I think Aioi Nissay Dowa asked Mr Y clear questions about modifications to his car. But I 
dont think Mr Y took reasonable care to answer these questions correctly. This is because 
the car had several obvious modifications. And Mr Y hasnt said that he wasnt aware of 
them. In fact, he later recalled telling Aioi Nissay Dowa about them. The Statement of Fact 
also said that the car had no modifications. But Mr Y didnt correct this. So I think Mr Y didnt 
take reasonable care to answer the question correctly.
Aioi Nissay Dowas terms and conditions state clearly that it doesnt provide cover for cars 
with modifications. Under Important Information, it states that cover will not be granted to 
any car which: 
has been altered, changed or modified in any way (including cosmetic changes) from the 
manufacturers standard specification (excluding manufacturers options fitted at the time of 
original purchase).
So Im satisfied that if Mr Y had told it about the modifications, he wouldnt have been able to 
continue with his application. This means Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one under CIDRA. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa said it thought Mr Ys misrepresentation was careless because he 
explained that he didnt understand the importance of declaring the modifications. And I 
agree because Mr Y wasnt experienced in motor insurance. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ys misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Aioi Nissay Dowa can take in accordance with CIDRA. As Aioi Nissay Dowa wouldnt 
have offered cover at all without the misrepresentation it was entitled under CIDRA to avoid 
Mr Ys policy (treat it as though it didnt exist).
But Aioi Nissay Dowa decided to cancel the policy instead, which is a more favourable 
outcome for Mr Y. Under CIDRA, Aioi Nissay Dowa doesnt have to avoid the contract. As 
long as theres been no claim, it can choose to cancel the policy rather than avoid it from the 
point of the misrepresentation. 
This is because where theres been no claim CIDRA sets out clearly that the remedies 
available to the insurer dont affect the insurers contractual rights to cancel the policy. If the 
insurer chooses to cancel the policy rather than avoid it  then its making a decision that the 
policy was live and active up to the point it cancelled. If the insurer chooses to cancel rather 
than avoid, it can only do so if the policy terms allow it. And its entitled to charge a 
cancellation fee in line with those terms too. 
I can see that the Statement of Fact and the policy summary explain that the policy may be 
cancelled if Mr Y didnt immediately inform Aioi Nissay Dowa of any inaccuracies in the information hed provided. Mr Y didnt tell Aioi Nissay Dowa that his car had been modified. 
So I think it was then entitled by the policys terms and conditions to cancel the policy. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa sent Mr Y notice of the cancellation by text, email and letter and then it 
cancelled the policy. I think this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions and 
gave Mr Y sufficient notice of the cancellation. It charged Mr Y an administration fee and for 
his time on cover and refunded the remaining premium. Im satisfied that this is in keeping 
with CIDRA and the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr Y thought he should have been given opportunity to cancel the policy himself. But Im 
satisfied that he had opportunity to do this if he wished, but he didnt contact Aioi Nissay 
Dowa apart from asking for a refund of his premium. I dont think Aioi Nissay Dowa was 
required to explain this option to Mr Y. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Aioi Nissay Dowa was entitled to cancel Mr Ys policy in accordance 
with CIDRA and the policys terms and conditions. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Aioi Nissay Dowa to rely on it to cancel 
Mr Ys policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. And as Aioi Nissay 
Dowa is required to keep accurate records, I dont require it to remove the cancellation from 
Mr Ys record.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman