DRN-4116679
The complaint
H, a company, complains about a claim it made on the legal expenses section of its 
business protection policy to U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line for Business 
(DLB). 
The complaint is brought by Mr B on behalf of H. Mr H says that H was treated unfairly. 
What happened
H made a claim on the legal expenses section of its business protection policy for cover to 
bring two claims- one in respect of allegations of fraud against Mr B in his capacity as 
Director for H, and another in respect of a debt owed to H for £1.5m. 
Hs complaint is essentially that DLB caused delays in dealing with both claims which meant 
that at the time its complaint was brought to us, neither had been assessed and no progress 
had been made. Mr B says the delays have caused a significant risk to H as a business as it 
could be wound up if its not able to properly defend the claim of fraud or pursue the debt 
owed to it because it owes money to its own suppliers which it is having difficulty paying.
DLB accept they caused a slight delay to Hs claim progressing. This was because they put 
the claim on hold whilst they asked Mr B for some information about Hs business activities. 
After Mr H replied to those questions, DLB failed to confirm to their claims handlers that they 
were satisfied with the information Mr B gave and that the claim could proceed. DLB have 
offered H £50 in compensation for this delay. Mr B doesnt think this is enough and says that 
it doesnt fully compensate H for the delay and inconvenience of having to chase things 
themselves in order to get the claim back on track.
H was also unhappy with how the claim had been handled by DLBs claims handlers, but 
those issues have been considered and assessed by an investigator separately and DLB, as 
underwriter of the policy, has agreed to put things right. As such I wont be commenting on 
this further in this decision.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint in respect of DLBs specific actions and thought 
the complaint should be upheld. DLB doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Hs complaint should be upheld for broadly the same reasons 
referred to by the investigator in his view.
DLB accept their actions caused a delay in Hs claim progressing, but they say theyve 
adequately compensated H for this by offering to pay it £50. The investigator said that this 
isnt enough and that £150 is more appropriate. This complaint has been referred to decision 
to determine that issue.
Broadly the investigator thought that DLB needed to do more to communicate both with H 
and its own claims handlers to explain that the claim could proceed when DLB was satisfied 
that it had everything it needed for this to happen. Because it didnt, Mr B was left to chase 
DLBs claims handlers to find out what was happening, who said they were still waiting to 
hear from DLB. Mr B then passed on an email from DLB to the claims handlers confirming 
that theyd completed their checks.
DLB says that it didnt have to get in touch with H at all to explain they were pausing its claim 
until theyd completed their checks satisfactorily and this was something their claims 
handlers should have done. Theyve pointed to their policy terms which sets out the claims 
handlers are instructed to handle the claim on their behalf. They feel strongly that their offer 
of compensation is sufficient and that £50 is enough to compensate H.
Ive considered everything but I dont agree with DLB. Its correct that most insurers instruct 
claims handlers to act on their behalf and have little or no contact with their policyholders 
once a claim is made. But that wasnt entirely the case here. In September 2022 DLB wrote 
to Mr B directly asking for details of Hs business activities in order to ensure that cover was 
in place. At the same time, they asked their claims handlers to put Hs claim on pause. Mr B 
responded the same day to that request. The information provided satisfied DLB that cover 
was in place. DLB confirmed this to Mr H by letter two weeks later. What they didnt do 
however was tell their claims handlers they could continue with the claim, so Mr B was left 
thinking that the information hed provided DLB with was enough and that everything was 
now in hand. 
It wasnt until sometime later when Mr B chased the claims handlers for action on Hs claim 
that he discovered DLB hadnt in fact told them they could continue with the claim. In 
response to that Mr H forwarded the claims handlers DLBs recent letter. It wasnt til after 
that that the claims handlers started to progress things. 
Whilst I recognise DLB arent claims handling for themselves, they do owe their 
policyholders a duty of care. In this case that would translate to treating them fairly to ensure 
a smooth claims journey and for that to happen, they needed to ensure that they had 
communicated effectively with both Mr B and their claims handlers to allow the claim to 
progress. So, although DLB see their omission to communicate with their claims handlers as 
a small failing - worthy of £50 in compensation- the impact on their customer is in my view 
worth of more.  It also doesnt take into account the fact that DLB misled Mr B in its letter to 
think its claims handlers were aware of the position now and would pick up and run with the 
claim, when this wasnt correct.
The claims H needed to defend and pursue were clearly pressing for the reasons its 
mentioned. As such it needed assistance promptly. And ultimate delay to the customer 
wasnt two weeks as contended by DLB but closer to four by the time Mr B discovered that 
DLBs claims handlers werent aware they could proceed with the claim and had satisfied 
themselves they had agreement from DLB to do so.  Because of this I agree that DLB should 
do more to compensate H for its actions and the impact of them- particularly the delay at a 
time when H needed prompt assistance. 
Putting things right
DLB should pay H £150 in recognition of the delay it caused by failing to tell its claims 
handlers they could proceed with the claim after they told them to pause dealing with it. Ive 
set out the impact of those actions on H more specifically above.My final decision
For the reasons set out within this decision I uphold Hs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited, trading as Direct Line for Business and direct it to put things right by paying H £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman