DRN-4021794
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under a 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out a pet insurance policy with Covea on 18 February 2021 for a dog whom Ill 
call C. The policy was renewed on 18 February 2022.
In March 2022 she took the dog to the vet for diarrhoea, vomiting and abdominal pain. After 
tests C was diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease. She made a claim to Covea for the 
total cost of treatment being £3,927.63.
After looking at Cs veterinary history, Covea declined the claim. It said according to the 
previous vets records C had presented similar symptoms (vomiting and diarrhoea) on 5 and 
13 February 2021 before the policy had been taken out. Covea referred the case to an 
independent vet whod concluded that there was a high chance both illnesses were related. 
So it declined the claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They produced evidence from their former vet who said there was 
no diagnosis for what had caused the vomiting and diarrhoea in February 2021 and it was 
most likely due to gastroenteritis of unknown cause. Covea didnt change its decision
As Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this response, they brought a complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator recommended that Covea should settle the claim and also pay simple 
interest at the rate of 8% on the settlement. 
Covea has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs current vet has confirmed that C was seen for the first time at their clinic in 
November 2021 because of repeated episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea since September 
2021. C was eventually diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease.
The crux of this complaint is whether the treatment for inflammatory bowel disease is the 
result of a pre-existing condition, a clinical sign of which was the vomiting and diarrhoea C 
had suffered from just before the policy started.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It 
says:
What we will not pay

The cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition.
The term pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
cover started, or
An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, illness 
or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started.
No matter where the injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your 
pets body.
I think this exclusion was clear. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for 
Covea to apply it to decline the claim. As a general principle, where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show it was reasonable to apply it. That means Covea 
should establish that Mr and Mrs Bs dog had clinical signs of inflammatory bowel disease 
before the policy started in order to rely on this exclusion. With this in mind Ive looked at the 
history of the dogs previous visits to the vet.
In early February 2021 before the policy started, Mrs Bs vet at that time noted being told by 
Mrs B that the dog had vomited a large amount of digested food. On 12 February 2021 the 
vet recorded C as having occasional diarrhoea. On 13 February the vet noted further 
vomiting and some red drops of blood from the dogs anus. 
When asked for more information about what might have caused the vomiting and diarrhoea 
between 5 and 13 February 2021, that vet said:
There is no diagnosis for what may have caused the vomiting and diarrhoea at these dates. 
It was most likely gastroenteritis of unknown cause.
The veterinary practice which treated C between November 2021 and March 2022 said:
After a few months of treatments and investigations, on the 18th March 2022 she was 
diagnosed with a chronic lymphoplasmacytic gastritis and duodenitis and a chronic erosive 
neutrophilic, eosinophilic and lymphoplasmacytic colitis with a gut-associated lymphoid 
tissue hyperplasis.
 
These findings are highly compatible with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) what we can 
now confirm due to the efficacy of the treatment. Even if there is any possibility of histiocytic 
ulcerative colitis, this cannot be related to the dietary indiscretion episode from when she 
was a puppy as this type of colitis is caused by an inflammatory cell infiltration, which means 
a type of IBD and should not be excluded.
The independent vet consulted by Covea was given the clinical history from the first vet and 
details of the claim. He thought it was highly likely that the earlier vomiting and diarrhoea 
was related to the current claim.
This service has a long-standing approach when considering complaints regarding pre-
existing conditions. We consider it fair and reasonable for a business to decline a claim on 
the basis of a pre-existing condition only where the consumer had reasonable knowledge of 
something that could at some point give rise to a claim.
Mrs B thinks the sickness and diarrhoea C had suffered in February 2021 was caused by 
something nefarious in the garden which she consumed. Covea referred to the vets notes on this point which said no hx of fb ingestion. I take this to mean that C had no history of 
eating foreign bodies. But the vet didnt say that the dog hadnt eaten a foreign body  just 
that she hadnt been known to have done this previously. The dog was a young puppy at the 
time, so the lack of such a history doesnt seem surprising.
In this case C had not been diagnosed with any particular illness in February 2021. Vomiting 
and diarrhoea are generic and commonly occurring symptoms which might reasonably be 
taken to be a one-off incident rather than a symptom of a more serious underlying condition. 
The vet who treated C at that time thought it was due to gastroenteritis (an intestinal 
infection) with an unknown cause. I dont think its fair and reasonable in this case to treat C 
as having a pre-existing condition of inflammatory bowel disease. This is because I dont 
think Mrs B would have had any specific cause for concern about this when the policy was 
taken out or that she would have reasonably known C had a condition which might require 
future treatment.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not satisfied that Covea fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
settle the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; and
pay simple interest of 8% on the settlement sum from the date the claim was made 
until settlement.
If Covea Insurance plc considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it has taken off. It should 
also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if Mrs B asks for one so that she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman