DRN-4103925
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line declined her claim for 
treatment of her dogs skin condition, as they said the condition was pre-existing. Shed like 
them to pay the claim and confirm ongoing cover for skin conditions.
What happened
Mrs B has insurance for her dog with UKI. Her policy started on 1 August 2020. Mrs B owns 
the dog jointly with her son, Mr B. Prior to her taking out her policy the dog was insured on a 
policy in Mr Bs name. Between 1 August 2020 and 11 June 2021 the dog had dual 
insurance, with policies both in Mrs B and Mr Bs names. Both policies were with UKI.
On 11 June 2021 Mr B contacted UKI to cancel the dogs policy in his name. He told UKI 
that there were two policies for the dog, and he needed to cancel his as it was more 
expensive than his mothers. UKI checked the cover the dog had and confirmed that Mrs Bs 
policy started on 1 August 2020. Mr B was told that if his policy was cancelled, there would 
be no cover for any pre-existing conditions under his mothers policy. He confirmed that he 
understood this and said the dog had no pre-existing conditions. So his policy was 
cancelled.
On 22 June 2022 the dog was seen by Mrs Bs vet and was noted to have generalised 
dermatitis affected his ears, axillae (armpits) and inguinum (groin) with erythema (redness) 
and pruritis (itchiness). The vet thought this was related to allergies and needed 
investigation. Ear drops and medication were prescribed. 
Mrs B submitted a claim to UKI for the dogs treatment which was declined as they said the 
condition was pre-existing. Mr B raised a complaint on behalf of his mother about the claim 
being declined and said hed been put under pressure by UKI to take out a new policy. So 
they felt UKI should cover the claim and confirm the dog would be covered for skin 
conditions going forward.
On 4 July 2022 Mrs Bs vet provided a letter saying the dog had been seen for an ear 
infection on 9 August 2019, and more recently for skin issues. The vet was unable to confirm 
whether the conditions were definitely related, as in some patients she said theyre two 
different pathologies.
UKI provided their final response to the complaint on 3 September 2022. Their letter was 
addressed to Mr B as Mrs B had confirmed she was happy for him to act as her 
representative.
UKI said the vet thought the dogs dermatitis was due to allergies, which are a 
hypersensitive reaction to environmental allergens which cause redness and itching, usually 
around the ears, face, feet, axilla, and groin. And as dogs scratch the itchy areas this 
traumatises the skin and can lead to infections. 
UKI also said that the dogs clinical records showed these issues had occurred before. On 3 
September 2018 he was seen for pustules and papules suggestive of a skin infection. On 9 
August 2019 he was seen as hed been shaking his head, and the vet noted left ear redness, 
waxy build-up and a Malassezia (yeast) infection, which were treated with an injection and 
ear drops. He had a further ear infection on 27 June 2021. He was noted to be scratchy with 
redness and in some areas, and he was losing fur. And on 5 November 2021 he had a 
recurrence of generalised dry skin around his ears and tail with pruritis and dermatitis 
around the left ear again, and dermatitis around the right ear.
So UKI said the dogs skin and ear problems have been recurring since at least August 
2019, before Mrs Bs policy started on 1 August 2020. The policy states that it doesnt cover 
pre-existing conditions, and these are defined as Any condition or symptoms, or signs of 
injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form before the pet was covered by this 
insurance.
UKI said skin allergies are common in dogs and often otitis is the first symptom which 
gradually worsens over time. And the wax build-up and Malassezia, which occurred in 2019 
and 2022 are common secondary issues from allergy related otitis (infection). In June 2021 
the dogs neck and back legs were affected and UKI said these are typical areas affected by 
allergies. 
UKI also said theyre aware that other conditions can cause skin problems, but theres no 
evidence of this in this case. So they believe its likely the dogs condition is caused by 
allergies, rather than by two separate unrelated conditions. And the claim had been reviewed 
by their Vet Nurse team whod agreed that the dogs history didnt indicate a separate cause 
for the previous recurring episodes of skin and ear problems.
Mr B had also said that hed been pressured to take out a new policy and the exclusions on 
new policies werent explained to him. UKI said they couldnt see any reason why hed have 
been pushed to take out a new policy online. They couldnt dispute that a quote for a new 
policy might have been cheaper, but if Mr B had obtained a quote online, hed have seen the 
terms and conditions and details of the exclusions. So UKI didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
She then complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. She said the dog had 
been treated for skin conditions before the policy started in September 2018 and August 
2019. So she agreed the condition was pre-existing and Mrs Bs vet hadnt been able to 
confirm the condition the dog was treated for in June 2022 had a separate cause.
She also said that as the dogs owners Mrs B and her son should have been aware of his 
medical history, and that hed suffered from skin problems. And she was satisfied that when 
Mr B called UKI to cancel his policy, he was made aware that any conditions the dog had 
previously had would be treated as pre-existing and wouldnt be covered. So she didnt think 
it was fair to ask UKI to accept a claim that wasnt covered by Mrs Bs policy.
UKI accepted our investigators opinion, but Mrs B didnt. She said she had no medical 
training and couldnt be expected to know that an ear infection her dog had suffered from in 
the past, could be linked to a skin condition on his stomach some years later. So she didnt 
know there was a pre-existing condition. And Mr B said he wasnt satisfied our investigator 
had listened to the correct call about setting up the policy, as UKI had told him they couldnt 
locate the call.
Since Mrs B raised this our investigator has sent her a copy of Mr Bs call to UKI on 11 June 
2021, when he rang to cancel his policy.
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 22 March 2023. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Bs call to UKI on 11 June 2021, when he rang to cancel his policy. And 
Im satisfied that the call handler he spoke to made it clear that, if he cancelled his policy, 
any pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered under his mothers policy. Mr B confirmed 
that he was happy with this and said, Theres nothing pre-existing.
Im not persuaded that Mr B was put under any pressure to cancel his policy. He told UKI 
that he and his mother had received renewal documents and realised they had two policies 
for their dog. And he wanted to cancel his because it was the most expensive.
I dont think any call Mr B may have had about setting up his policy is relevant to this 
complaint. The issue here is that conditions which may have been covered under his 
cancelled policy, have been treated as pre-existing under Mrs Bs policy.
UKI have provided details of what Mrs B would have seen when taking out her policy online. 
This includes a number of assumptions shed have needed to agree to, including You 
accept that there is no cover for any existing or previous condition or symptoms your pet has 
suffered or anything in any way related to them.
Mrs Bs policy contains a definition of what UKI consider to be pre-existing conditions. This is 
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form 
before the pet was covered by this insurance.
Prior to the start of Mrs Bs policy the dog was noted to have small pustules and papules 
present on skin, suggestive of a skin infection, in September 2018 and an ear infection in 
August 2019. On 15 December 2019 the dog had a lump on his caudal (tail) which was said 
to have been present for a couple of months. He was also noted to have small lump on his 
cranial chest and a patch of dry skin in the lumbar area. This wasnt infected, but Mrs B was 
told to monitor it for spread.
These are the only episodes of skin and ear problems recorded in the dogs clinical records 
before Mrs Bs policy started on 1 August 2020.
But there are further entries in his records about his skin before UKI declined the claim made 
in June 2022.
On 27 June 2021 he was seen by the vet as Mrs B was concerned about patches of missing 
fur. She told the vet that shed noticed his ears were a bit red and inflamed, then he started 
losing fur from his ears. And this had spread to his neck and back legs. The dog hadnt been 
scratching much but his skin was noted to be really red, irritated, and crusty around the 
outside of the pinnae (ears). And he had patches of alopecia spreading down his neck and 
the back of his limbs. The vet couldnt see any obvious parasites but thought the condition 
could be due to parasites or allergies. The condition was noted to have started about a week 
ago.
This condition seems much more serious and widespread than the earlier problems in 2018 
and 2019.
The dog was next seen on 12 July 2021 when it was noted that his skin was improving but 
his ears were noted to still be red, waxy and painful. He was prescribed steroids to reduce 
the redness and itching. And On 5 November 2021 he was seen for a recurrence of generalised dry skin around the 
ears and tail.
We then have the notes relating to the treatment on 22 June 2022. On this occasion the vet 
said they thought the problem was related to allergies and required investigation.
So I need to decide if I think the skin infection the dog had in September 2018 and the ear 
infection in August 2019 were signs of a pre-existing condition. And whether Mrs B knew 
when she took out her policy that her dog had a condition shed need to claim for. 
The dog was seen on 3 September 2018 when he had pustules and papules on his skin. 
This was when he was at the vets to be castrated. He had follow-up appointments on 6 and 
13 September 2018 and theres no mention of any ongoing skin problems.
He was seen on 9 August 2019 for an ear infection, but by 13 August 2019 the ear was 
noted to be better apart from waxy build-up. Mrs B was shown how to clean his ears. Then 
apart from an area of dry skin noted in December 2019 there no reference to skin problems 
until June 2021. Although this is shortly after Mr B cancelled his policy, Mrs Bs policy had 
then been in place for almost a year.
Im not persuaded that a short-lived skin infection in September 2018 and a short-lived ear 
infection in August 2019 would have put Mrs B on notice that her dog had an ongoing skin 
condition shed need to claim for. And while its clear the dog had problems with his skin in 
2021 this was some time after Mrs Bs policy started. 
I accept that Mrs Bs vet hasnt been able to definitely confirm that the dogs ear infection 
wasnt related to his later skin problems. But I also need to consider what Mrs B knew about 
her dogs health when she took out her policy. Its for UKI to shown that she should have 
known he had a condition shed need to claim for. And based on the current evidence Im not 
persuaded that she did.
So I dont think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline her claim for her dogs treatment 
in June 2022.
Mrs B has told us that shes suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of her claim has 
been handled by UKI and I accept this
And to put things right I require UKI to reassess her claim on the basis that there was no pre-
existing condition. And to pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced 
as a result of how her claim has been handled. 
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Bs complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision Mr B, on behalf of Mrs B, has confirmed that she 
accepts my provisional decision.
UKI have said that they dont cover pre-existing conditions and they define a Condition as 
Any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs if injury or illness, including related conditions 
or problems, no matter where these are noticed or happen in or on your pet.
UKI have provided comments from a veterinary nurse about the dogs clinical history. She 
sets out details of the symptoms the dog was treated for before June 2022, including those 
in June and November 2021, as part of the history to be considered when deciding if he had 
a pre-existing condition.She says that Mrs Bs vet couldnt confirm if the condition the dog was treated for in June 
2022 was related to earlier issues.
Shes made the following points about the condition: -
Research is ongoing and the understanding of atopic dermatitis is evolving. Its 
considered to be a hypersensitivity to environmental allergens like pollen, moulds 
and mites. And these trigger complex interactions resulting in erythema and pruritis.
Its a common, genetically predisposed, chronically relapsing, progressive, pruritic 
and inflammatory skin disease with characteristic clinical features. The onset can 
very between six months and six years. And commonly affected areas are those 
where the fur is thinner, like the ear, around the eyes, axillae, inguinal and interdigital 
areas. Flare ups are individual and dependent on the allergen and exposure and can 
be seasonal or all year round. 
Self-trauma and secondary infections can perpetuate the symptoms and can require 
treatment prior and alongside the management of the underlying cause. 
Its a lifelong disease that requires chronic management that involves combinations 
of topical and systemic therapies that need to be tailored to each individual dog and 
owner.
Its important to recognise other conditions can cause similar symptoms and these 
should be ruled out before an allergy diagnosis is reached.
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded that the skin infection Mrs Bs dog had in 
September 2018 and the infection in August 2019 would have put her notice that he had an 
ongoing skin condition shed need to claim for. And while he had problems with his skin in 
2021 these were some time after her policy started.
In response to this UKIs veterinary nurse has said the following: -
Its unusual for a patient to be presented with and diagnosed with an allergy on the 
first symptom. Its a condition that progresses with each exposure so its dependent 
on this exposure to the specific allergen. This may be sporadic so patients can be 
presented multiple times before theres evidence to support a diagnosis.
Its common for the initial symptoms to be mild, these may not be recognised by the 
owner and/or treated symptomatically by the vet with anti parasitics and control of 
secondary infections and steroids before there is enough evidence to support a 
diagnosis of an allergy.
In this case we see mild infections at similar times of year (summer) treated with anti-
parasitic drugs and steroids until they progress and the vet trials Apoquel.
Skin and ear infections are recognised symptoms of a skin allergy and although it is 
not possible to confirm an allergy straight away, this would be considered a 
differential alongside other possible causes like parasites or foreign bodies. 
Diagnosis is made by considering history, clinical signs and responses to treatment 
so it is by looking back the vet is able to consider the short lived skin and ear 
infections in 2018 and 2019 and suspect an allergy as the most likely cause of the 
worsening symptoms in 2021 and 2022.So there were signs and symptoms of the condition prior to the commencement of 
the policy that have been considered to make the diagnosis prior to the policy.
Theyve provided enough evidence to show Mrs Bs dog was likely to have been 
suffering from an underlying skin condition with symptoms present before the policy 
inception.
They maintain that Mrs Bs claim was assessed correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that what I needed to consider was whether, at the time she 
took out her policy Mrs B would have known that her dog was suffering from a condition 
shed have to claim for. And based on her dogs clinical history at the time I wasnt 
persuaded that she would have been.
Ive considered what UKIs veterinary nurse has said and it hasnt changed my opinion. 
Quite the reverse, its confirmed my opinion, as shes said Its unusual for a patient to be 
presented with and diagnosed with an allergy on the first symptom. Its a condition that 
progresses with each exposure so its dependent on this exposure to the specific allergen. 
And Its common for the initial symptoms to be mild, these may not be recognised by the 
owner and/or treated symptomatically by the vet.
She also said Diagnosis is made by considering history, clinical signs and responses to 
treatment so it is by looking back the vet is able to consider the short lived skin and ear 
infections in 2018 and 2019 and suspect an allergy as the most likely cause of the worsening 
symptoms in 2021 and 2022.
If thats correct then I simply dont see how UKI can say that Mrs B knew in 2020, when she 
took out her policy, that her dog had an ongoing skin condition shed need to claim for. Its 
for them to show that she would have known this, and they havent done so. So I dont think 
they acted fairly or reasonably when they declined her claim.
Putting things right
And to put things right I require UKI to reassess her claim on the basis that there was no pre-
existing condition. And to pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced 
as a result of how her claim has been handled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line.
And to put things right I require them to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman