DRN-3199700
The complaint
Mr M complains that ICICI Bank UK PLC (ICICI) registered a marker against his name with 
the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). To put things right, Mr M wants the 
marker removed.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M received a call from his bank, ICICI. Mr M says he was asked about 
payments into his account totalling £42,785 and said they were commission payments he 
had earned. ICICI told Mr M it had blocked his account and would complete a review in the 
next seven days. When ICICI completed its review, it decided to close Mr Ms account. It 
wrote to Mr M to confirm its decision on 8 April 2020.
Later in the year, Mr M discovered ICICI had registered a fraud marker against his name 
with CIFAS. Mr M complained to ICICI, asking for it to remove the marker. ICICI issued its 
final response to Mr Ms complaint on 22 September 2020. It confirmed it had registered Mr 
Ms name with CIFAS, but declined to remove the marker.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
She said Mr M had first told our service that ICICI hadnt asked for proof of his entitlement to 
the money that had gone into his account, but that shed listened to the calls between Mr M 
and ICICI and found that ICICI had asked for proof. And that Mr M hadnt provided evidence 
to support the payments hed received.
She explained that Mr M could provide an invoice, contract or any supporting paperwork to 
confirm his entitlement to the funds. Mr M said he was just doing a deal for a friend, so he 
had no paperwork. Our investigator wasnt able to reach an agreement, so Mr M asked for 
an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ICICI hasnt disclosed why it applied a CIFAS marker against Mr M, and isnt obliged to do 
so. However, Ive looked at the reasons ICICI applied the marker and Ive thought about the 
evidence it relied on when it did so. Having done so, I need to consider whether the report to 
CIFAS was made fairly. 
ICICI needs to have more than mere suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would support this being reported to the police. What this means in practice is 
that the bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have entered Mr Ms account, 
whether they are retained or pass through the account. And secondly, the bank will need to 
have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately dishonest in receiving the 
fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to decide whether ICICI had 
sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker against Mr M. Having 
looked at all the evidence Im satisfied ICICI acted fairly when it applied the marker. 
Mr M has made representations about the funds he was asked about in March 2020, before 
ICICI closed his account. Mr M says they were personal commission payments for helping a 
friend out with a business deal. 
He said the first payment of £30,000 was for introducing a third party to his friend for the 
purposes of buying clothes. And that the second payment of £12,785 was from a grocery 
company and was part of a trade deal for raw clothing materials. Although Mr M later said 
the payment to the grocery company related to second hand office furniture he had sold it.
When Mr M had spoken to ICICI in March 2020, he told it he was expecting both payments 
and that they were commission relating to a clothes deal. He said he was a middle man and 
had introduced a buyer to his contacts abroad. Mr M said there was no invoice as the 
payments were just his commission. When our investigator asked Mr M if he had any 
evidence to show he was entitled to the payments, he said there was no invoice, it was my 
friend paying.
I recognise Mr M is frustrated that ICICI hasnt told him why it applied the CIFAS marker. 
But, because it isnt obliged to do so, I cant say its done anything wrong by not disclosing 
its reasons. While I cant say why ICICI loaded a CIFAS marker, Mr M has been given the 
opportunity to explain the payments he received that led ICICI to block and close his account 
but hasnt been able to substantiate his claim that hes entitled to the money. 
There are also inconsistencies in what Mr M has told both out service and ICICI. Mr M didnt 
mention that he had sold used office furniture when he spoke to ICICI, and hasnt been 
consistent when hes been asked what the payments were for.
And Ive seen no good reason why there wouldnt be an invoice for two large, five-figure 
commission payments. Based on what Mr M has said, they were made as part of a business 
deal, and I see no reason why they wouldnt attract tax obligations to one or both parties 
involved. And I would expect to see invoices in such a scenario.
Having independently assessed ICICIs rationale and considered the evidence both parties 
have submitted, and on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied ICICI was entitled to 
register a CIFAS marker against Mr M.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman