DRN-3035596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that their mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) 
was transferred onto the standard variable rate (SVR) without their knowledge in 2013. They 
say First Direct should have done more since then to tell them what rate of interest applied 
to their mortgage. And that if First Direct had made it clear over the years that their 
mortgage was on its SVR, theyd have switched products years ago.
Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy about the service they received when they applied for a 
new interest rate product in 2020. Theyd like compensation for the extra interest theyve 
paid as a result of their mortgage being on First Directs SVR for years. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have an interest only offset mortgage with First Direct with a balance of 
around £80,000. On 1 April 2011 Mr and Mrs H took out a two year fixed rate of 3.19%. This 
rate expired on 31 March 2013. 
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs H contacted First Direct to find out more about covid-19 
mortgage payment deferrals. Mr and Mrs H say they were told during the call that their 
mortgage had moved onto First Directs SVR on 1 April 2013. Mr and Mrs H said they were 
surprised to learn this. They were concerned theyd paid more interest on their mortgage 
over the years as a result and felt First Direct should have done more to tell them the rate 
of interest that had applied to their mortgage loan.
Mr and Mrs H say they tried to take out a new product immediately to save interest as 
soon as they could. But Mr and Mrs H complain that they experienced delays when 
applying for a new product in 2020 and this led to them paying a higher rate of interest for 
longer. Mr and Mrs H would like some interest theyve paid on the SVR to be refunded to 
them now, as if they had taken out a new product sooner.
On 26 March 2020 First Direct issued a mortgage rate switching offer, setting out a 
variable rate tracker which would track Bank of England base rate plus 2.54% for the term 
of the mortgage loan.
First Direct issued a final response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on 27 March 2020, not 
upholding the complaint. It said it had found record of discussions that showed Mr and 
Mrs H had been aware that their previous fixed rate product expired in 2013 and that Mrs 
H had said shed get back to First Direct once shed discussed the matter with Mr H but 
hadnt. First Direct also said that Mr and Mrs H had been sent a letter every time the SVR 
level had changed since then, so theyd have known they were on the SVR. First Direct 
said it seemed Mr and Mrs H hadnt asked for a rate since then.
First Direct agreed that in early 2020 a call could have been handled better, but the member 
of staff had followed the correct procedure when they booked a rate change appointment.
First Direct went on to issue a second final response on 3 April 2020 addressing concerns 
about how it had handled Mr and Mrs Hs new mortgage rate application. Documents had 
been sent to Mr and Mrs H in the post rather than by email, as had been agreed. In 
recognition of this and Mr and Mrs Hs frustration about delays in securing a new rate, First 
Direct agreed to backdate the new rate to 26 March 2020. This was the date First Direct 
first tried to send the mortgage offer documents electronically to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with First Directs responses and brought their complaint to us.
First Direct said that it considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint had been brought out of time 
according to the complaint handling rules. It argued this wasnt a matter that we could look 
into. First Direct said Mr and Mrs H were aware the mortgage had moved onto its SVR in 
2013, and because this happened more than six years ago this wasnt something that we 
could investigate now. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 22 April 2021 setting out the parts of this complaint we 
could consider. I said we could investigate Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about First Direct not 
making them aware about the rate of interest that applied to this mortgage from 2014 to 
2020 (that being the six year period before they made their complaint in 2020) and the 
second part of their complaint about the issues they experienced when they asked for a 
new product in 2020. But we wouldnt be able to look at what happened before this, 
including what happened in 2013 when Mr and Mrs Hs fixed rate expired. This part of the 
complaint had been brought to us out of time.
Our investigator looked into the merits of the parts of the complaint we could investigate 
now. His opinion was that the complaint shouldnt succeed. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and 
asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H complain that it was unfair that First Direct applied its SVR to their mortgage 
from 2014 to 2020, especially without making them aware of this. Theyve said that if it had 
told them they were on the SVR, they would have taken out a new product sooner. 
First, Ive looked at the mortgage documentation to see how this mortgage was intended to 
operate when Mr and Mrs H agreed to the terms. The mortgage offer says the loan would be 
on a fixed rate of 3.19% until 31 March 2013, and that it would revert to a variable rate. The 
variable rate was 3.69% when the mortgage was taken out.  
Under section 7 of the offer it says:
After the 24 month fixed rate period then for one percentage point increase in first directs 
Standard Variable Rate, your Monthly Payment will increase by around £66.71.
Im satisfied that First Direct acted in line with the mortgage loan agreement by applying its 
variable rate from 2014 until 2020 when Mr and Mrs Hs applied to transfer their mortgage 
loan to a new interest rate product. This was in line with how the mortgage was reported to 
operate in the loan documentation. Mr and Mrs H have said that First Direct failed to tell them that their mortgage had been on 
its SVR since 2014. Mrs H has said that every month they receive a statement from First 
Direct, but it doesnt say anywhere on that document what interest rate applies to the 
mortgage. 
Ive looked at samples of the annual and monthly mortgage statements sent to Mr and Mrs 
H. I agree from the monthly updates that have been shared with us that they dont say what 
interest rate applies to the mortgage debt. However, the annual statements do clearly state 
what the interest rate has applied to the loan during the period covered by the statement - 
and any changes to this rate that have happened over the year. For example, in the 
statement covering the 12 month period from 21 April 2018 to 20 April 2019, on page 4 it 
says:
9. Interest rates applicable to your mortgage
The following interest rates have been charged on all debit balances during this statement 
period:
Interest rate (%p.a.) Effective from Effective to
3.94% 21 April 2018 2 September 2018
4.19% 3 September 2018 20 April 2019
Im satisfied that this clearly records the debit interest rate that applies to the mortgage, 
albeit the variable rate isnt actually referred to as First Directs SVR. And possibly this is 
where some of Mrs Hs surprise about being on the SVR has come from. It may be that Mr 
and Mrs H believed they were on a variable rate, but didnt realise this was First Directs 
standard variable rate. And that a standard variable rate had a different connotation for 
them than a rate simply referred to as a variable rate.
Having looked at the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs H have historically taken out 
fixed rate products and arranged new products when previous rates expired. In 2020 they 
took out a tracker rate for the remaining term of the mortgage loan when they were told their 
mortgage was on the SVR. Yet from 2014 to 2020 Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have asked 
their lender about new products or enquire about whether there was a better deal for them. It 
may be that Mr and Mrs H thought the mortgage was on a tracker rate or some other 
variable rate. But, either way, Mr and Mrs Hs actions suggest they werent dissatisfied with 
the amount of interest that First Direct was applying to the mortgage loan or they could have 
asked if other preferential rates were available or explored moving their mortgage 
elsewhere. There werent any contractual barriers, such as an early repayment charge for 
example, that might have deterred them from shopping around.  
Im also aware that the administration surrounding offset mortgages can be more 
complicated than other types of mortgages. Offset mortgage statements can be difficult for 
even the most financially sophisticated borrowers to interpret. Its not apparent from the 
evidence provided what credit balances Mr and Mrs H have held in their five other accounts 
with First Direct from 2014 to 2020. There may have been times when they paid little or no 
interest at all on their mortgage as they had credit balances to offset their debit interest. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that First Direct took reasonable steps to let Mr and Mrs H know 
the interest rate that applied to their mortgage. While First Direct may not have referred to 
the variable rate that was applied as its SVR, it did share the level of the interest rate with Mr 
and Mrs H. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H could have asked First Direct about further interest rate deals 
if they had felt the variable interest rate didnt represent value for money at the time. Their 
historic handling of their mortgage shows an awareness of interest rate products having 
taken out fixed rates and enquired about interest rates before. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to hold First Direct responsible for Mr and Mrs H not choosing to explore taking 
out a new interest rate product before they did in 2020. 
taking out a new rate in 2020
Mr and Mrs H have complained about what happened when they applied for a new interest 
rate in 2020. There were some problems with the online application process and First Direct 
didnt have an up-to-date contact number for Mr H. However, rather than call Mrs H, 
documents were sent in the post. In recognition of the shortcomings in customer service, 
and the additional days that Mr and Mrs H remained on the variable rate, First Direct agreed 
to backdate the new tracker rate to 26 March 2020. This is the date that First Direct first tried 
to send the offer electronically. And its the earliest that Mr and Mrs H could have taken out a 
new product within First Directs process. 
Im pleased to see that First Direct has already backdated the interest rate in recognition of it 
not handling Mr and Mrs Hs new product application as promptly as it could have done. This 
has meant that Mr and Mrs H didnt pay additional interest as a result of avoidable delays. I 
think this is fair and reasonable to settle this part of the complaint. I make no further award.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman