DRN-2046751
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) made a duplicate entry of a 
credit card on his credit history in error, which had led to him being refused a mortgage, and 
incurring higher interest rates on other credit.    
What happened
Mr E opened a credit card with Halifax in August 2006. At the same time, Halifax opened an 
additional card account with a different account number in error. Mr E was unaware of this 
additional account until April 2020.
In August 2018 Mr E defaulted on his Halifax credit card and subsequently entered into a 
debt management plan to reach a partial settlement on this credit card. This settlement was 
finalised and the card cleared in April 2019. 
In April 2020 Mr E applied for a mortgage. His application was declined, and on requesting a 
credit report, he discovered that there was a duplicate entry for the Halifax credit card which 
was still showing as an open account, although it was not in default. 
Mr E contacted Halifax in April 2020 to find out why there was a card on his record that he 
had no knowledge of. After investigation, Halifax agreed that this account had been created 
in error. They agreed to remove the account from Mr Es credit file, and offered him £100 
payment for any inconvenience caused. This payment was made on 9 May 2020 and the 
account was deleted.  
Mr E was unhappy with this offer and brought the case to us. Mr E thinks that the incorrect 
entry has caused problems for him for a longer period of time. Mr E considers that it is likely 
that the incorrect entry has caused him to only be offered higher rate credit in the last 14 
years, which resulted in him struggling with his finances. In addition, it has caused him to be 
refused a mortgage this year. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Es complaint and has decided that the Halifaxs 
offer of £100 was fair in the circumstances. This is because Mr E has been unable to provide 
us with any evidence to support his view that the duplicate account was the sole reason for 
the higher interest rates or the declined mortgage. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge that it is clear that Halifax have made a mistake.  A 
duplicate account entry was made for the credit card in error and did appear on Mr Es credit 
file. Halifax have accepted this error and have taken the corrective action to remove it. I can 
appreciate how upsetting it must have been for Mr E to discover the mistake on his file, at a 
time when he had little outstanding credit and was trying to move house. 
What I have to decide is in this case is whether it is likely that this mistaken entry has caused 
the problems that Mr E tells us he has experienced in only being able to obtain high interest 
credit and having a mortgage refused.
Mr E has not been able to provide us with any details of the other credit applications he has 
made and have been approved in the 14 year period we are looking at. 
I do have access to the credit report that Mr E has provided, which shows that during 2006  
2014 he had a number of loans and credit cards, and also a mortgage. However, this record 
does not provide any detail on interest rates.  I am unable to say that Mr E was only able to 
access high interest credit during that period as a result of the entry.
Looking at the declined mortgage application, Mr E has provided evidence from his broker 
that the mortgage application was declined, but there are no reasons provided on the e mail.  
I also note from both the April and July credit reports that there were seven defaulted 
accounts on the report, between 2016 and 2018 which will be retained on Mr Es credit 
record for six years after the defaults are registered. After the erroneous entry was removed, 
Mr Es credit rating was still categorised as Very poor. The credit history position is 
therefore complicated, and I cannot say without evidence, that there is one main cause for 
the decision to decline the mortgage. 
All lenders have their own criteria for deciding whether they will approve lending, and it will 
also vary according to the type of lending. However, the content of the credit report suggests 
that it is unlikely that the one erroneous entry was the sole reason. 
For the reasons above, the only issue that I would be able to make any directions about is 
Halifaxs mistake in making the entry.  
Halifax has already recognised this, has had the entry removed, and made a payment of 
£100. This seems to me to be fair and reasonable for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused to Mr E in identifying the entry and having it removed.
My final decision
Royal Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) has already paid the £100 and corrected the 
credit records. 
I will not therefore be asking Royal Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman