DRN-3800290
The complaint
Mrs R complains about how Capital One (Europe) Plc treated her and communicated with 
her when she had a debt on her credit card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs R and Capital One. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs R had a credit card account with Capital One. In July 2020 the account was recorded as 
defaulted. Mrs R wanted Capital One to write this balance off because of her medical 
circumstances and her credit file to have the related negative information removed. Capital 
One requested further supporting evidence from Mrs R  but continued to send 
correspondence related to the debt. 
Mrs R complained to Capital One about the service shed received. She also said shed 
been discriminated against  on account of her medical circumstances. Unhappy with 
Capital Ones response, Mrs R referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Whilst the complaint was with our Service, Capital One made an offer to apologise, 
write off the debt, remove related adverse data reported to the relevant credit reference 
agencies and pay Mrs R £100.
Mrs R accepted the offer  except for the £100 that was offered, as she felt it didnt go far 
enough. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that Capital Ones 
offer was fair - but they needed to increase the compensation offered to £250. Mrs R didnt 
accept our Investigators recommendation  so the complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
As Capital One have accepted that things didnt happen as they should have and Mrs R has 
partially accepted the offer made, my decision will be limited to considering whether the offer 
of £250 goes far enough to recognise the impact of Capital Ones actions on Mrs R.
The allegation of discrimination 
Mrs R has made an allegation that she was discriminated against because Capital One 
didnt make reasonable adjustments to take into consideration her medical circumstances. 
Our Service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes discrimination 
under the Equality Act 2010. This is because were an informal alternative to the courts, and 
only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the Act. 
However, in my decision Ive considered whether Capital One have acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner overall, and in order to do that Ive taken a number of things into 
consideration - including the Equality Act 2010.
In Mrs Rs complaint, Capital One accepted that they didnt make appropriate reasonable 
adjustments and have apologised. Therefore, as this point isnt in dispute, Ive considered 
the impact of this failing on Mrs R alongside the steps that Capital One have taken to try and 
put things right.
Ive weighed up everything thats happened here  including keeping in mind that some of 
the correspondence received wouldve been automated, alongside the impact that Mrs R 
has described and the steps already taken by Capital One to put things rights. 
On balance, Im satisfied that £250 our Investigator recommended (an increase on the £100 
initially offered by Capital One) is fair, reasonable and proportionate - and I wont be 
directing Capital One to increase the award. Its important to say that its not the role of our 
Service to fine or punish businesses.
This isnt to at all play down the impact of this situation on Mrs R. Its clear from her 
testimony that Mrs R was experiencing a very difficult period in her life and the actions of 
Capital One made things more difficult for her. 
Having carefully considered everything Capital One has since done, or proposed to do to try 
and put things right, I wont be directing a further increase on the £250 our Investigator 
recommended.  
Putting things right
Given the time thats passed since this complaint came to our Service, its possible that 
Capital One have already actioned parts of their offer from 26 July 2022. For example, I note 
that Capital One have already issued a formal apology to Mrs R. But, for completeness, I 
direct Capital One to:
Refund all interest, charges and fees charged to this account (account ending 9325); 
and
Write off any outstanding balance*; and
Pay Mrs R £250 for any trouble or upset their actions have caused. 
*Capital One should also ensure that they accurately update any adverse information related 
to this account that theyve reported to the relevant credit reference agencies. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Capital One (Europe) Plc to 
follow my direction above - as set under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman