The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr W. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was sold to 
Mr W when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should not be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. When I looked at the 
complaint, alongside new information Mr W had given me in response to my query, I 
reached a different view of the case. So I decided to write a provisional decision setting out 
my view, so that everyone could comment. In that provisional decision I said the following (to 
preserve Mr Ws privacy I have redacted references to personal information which was in my 
original provisional decision):
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
My current view is that this complaint should be upheld. This is because I think its 
unlikely RBS gave Mr W enough clear and fair information about the PPI. I say this 
because I can see the credit card application form didnt have enough information, and 
I dont have evidence that other clear information was given.
This would have mattered to Mr W because he says he suffered from [a chronic 
illness] since 1996, leading to him having [related infections] and having to take time 
off from work. He says it wasnt until 2009 that he received effective medication for 
this. 
The way Mr W has presented the information satisfies me that he probably did have 
this pre-existing condition.
Ive looked at the terms of the PPI policy. I can see that he wouldnt have been able to 
claim successfully for anything related to the condition  at least for the first 24 months 
of the policy starting and possible for longer (the wording isnt as clear as it should be). 
At the time, if RBS had properly told Mr W about this restriction, I think its likely hed 
have decided the PPI wasnt worth the cost. 
DRN-1908473So my current view it that Mr W lost out as a result of RBS's failings in this case  I 
dont think hed have taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
In response, Mr W made no further substantive comment. RBS said it was disappointed with 
my view of the case. Its main points were:
Mr W, when complaining to the bank, had said he had no health problems at the time
of the sale.
In my decision, I only said Mr W probably had this health condition, which indicates
a clear element of doubt.
The bank was not given the new information to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I acknowledge the points made by the bank, which are reasonable ones. 
However, there was no new documentary information  only the points I set out in my 
decision. Given how long ago this all happened, I thought it unlikely that Mr W would be able 
to prove when he was diagnosed, or the effect it had on him. There can rarely be certainty in 
cases such as this, but the manner in which he presented the testimony satisfied me it was 
likely to be true. I have to decide what is most likely to have happened.
I did not regard as very significant the fact that Mr W had, in making his complaint, ticked the 
box to say he hadnt had a pre-existing condition. The form had been completed in a generic 
way, largely it would seem by his representatives, no doubt just to get the complaint process 
started. In my experience, the relevant details of a case often only emerge after further 
investigation. And Mr W mentioned his pre-existing condition later on, he says only when his 
wife reminded him of it. Again this had the ring of truth about it, and I have to make 
judgements on what is most likely to be a fair outcome. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI:
A. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should find out how much Mr W would have owed
when he closed his credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should then refund the difference between what Mr W 
owed when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.B. If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, The Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
C. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should add simple interest on the difference between
what Mr W would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until
he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
If  when The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc works out what Mr W would have owed
each month without PPI  Mr W paid more than enough to clear his balance, The
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr W paid.
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr W wouldve owed The
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc something on his credit card. The interest rate should be
8% a year.
D. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should tell Mr W what its done to work out A, B and
C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr W compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman