DRN-4209380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to F&L, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs M received a solicitors letter advising them that their 
neighbours were pursuing a legal dispute against them for nuisance. So they made a 
claim under their legal expenses insurance policy with F&L. 
F&L instructed panel solicitors and Mr and Mrs M informed the neighbours solicitors 
that they were seeking legal advice on how to proceed. But as nothing further was 
received from the other side, it was agreed in August 2021 that F&L would close the 
claim.
In September 2021, legal proceedings were issued against Mr and Mrs M, so they 
made a further claim to F&L. 
F&L declined the claim. It said this was an ongoing dispute that started before the 
policy incepted on October 2020, so there was no cover under the policy.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so they raised a complaint. They say that whilst there was 
a dispute with the neighbours back in 2015, the issues were resolved, and the 
solicitors letter in March 2021 and subsequent legal action came out of the blue.
F&L rejected the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M brought it to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt think F&L had done anything wrong or unfair. 
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me and I issued the 
following provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses insurance policy say:
The following are not insured by this policy:
Prior claims
Any claim or incident which may lead to a claim and which the Insured Person knew 
about or ought reasonably to have known about before the start of this Policy.
Prior circumstance
Costs and Expenses if You are aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, prior 
to the Period of Insurance, of any circumstances which could lead to a claim.
These policy terms are not unusual, and I dont consider them to be unfair. Insurance is 
designed to cover unforeseen or uncertain risks and not situations that have already 
happened or had started to happen before the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs M says that whilst there was a dispute over parking with the neighbours in the 
past, this was resolved, and they had no reason to foresee the neighbours pursuing legal 
action prior to the start of their policy. So Ive reviewed the information available to determine 
whether it was fair for F&L to conclude that a prior claim or prior circumstance existed before 
October 2020.
Ive considered the neighbours particulars of claim, which alleges that Mr and Mrs M have 
obstructed a right of way since 2015. Whilst they say this occurred from 2015 to 2020, they 
only detail specific incidents which occurred in 2015 and 2020, and not the years in-
between. So I think this does support Mr and Mrs Ms testimony that the past issues were 
resolved (or at least set aside) until more recently. 
However the first incident in 2020, specified in the particulars of claim, occurred in April. This 
incident is also referred to in Mr and Mrs Ms counterclaim and it appears the incident was 
reported to the police. The counterclaim also refers to an incident which took place in June 
2020, where Action Fraud were notified. 
As the authorities were notified, Im persuaded these incidents were significant enough to 
fairly say Mr and Mrs M ought reasonably to have been aware of the circumstances leading 
to this claim. Whilst they may not have known it would escalate to legal action, they were 
aware of the existence of a dispute  meaning this claim wasnt unforeseen at the time their 
policy started. 
So it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for F&L to conclude that the claim 
circumstances pre-dated the policy.
That said, I cant see anywhere on file that F&L asked Mr and Mrs M whether they had 
previous legal expenses insurance cover prior to this policy. F&L should be aware of our 
approach that if a customer has continuous legal expenses cover from the date the claims 
circumstances arose  which would cover a claim of this nature  they shouldnt be 
penalised for changing insurers. So F&L shouldve explored this with Mr and Mrs M and 
referred them back to their previous insurers to make a claim.
Ive asked Mr and Mrs M whether they had legal expenses cover prior to 2020. So far, 
theyve been able to evidence cover from October 2017 until October 2019. But I havent 
seen a policy from October 2019 to October 2020 which is the period of time when I consider 
that this claim circumstance arose. And if there was a policy in place, I havent seen that it 
would cover the defence of a property dispute claim. So theres no evidence they had a 
policy in force at the time which they couldve successfully claimed on.
As such, I cant fairly say whether F&Ls inaction here made a difference. So Im not inclined 
to uphold the complaint based on the information currently available. But if Mr and Mrs M are 
able to provide further evidence of this policy along with a copy of the terms and conditions 
showing what claims it wouldve covered, Ill consider the matter further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M have provided documentation for a landlord insurance policy that ran between 
September 2019 and September 2020. Whilst the risk address isnt their home address, the postcode is the same and they explain that they occupy part of the risk address and part is 
tenanted. 
F&L didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs M had continuous legal expenses 
insurance prior to their policy with F&L, which would cover a claim of this nature, then they 
shouldnt be penalised for changing insurers. But looking at the policy documentation 
provided, Im not satisfied this is the case here. Ill explain why. 
The landlord insurance policy doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Ms home address, only the 
tenanted property. As such, it wont cover a legal dispute in relation to parking at their home 
address. 
Furthermore, the policy doesnt cover a claim of this nature. The terms and conditions of the 
policy says it will cover:
Property disputes
Costs arising from civil legal action relating to material property owned by you within 
the premises occupied by the tenant under the tenancy agreement, arising out of:
1. a negligent act;
2. nuisance;
3. trespass; and/or
4. criminal damage
by the tenant which causes or could cause physical damage to such material 
property or pecuniary loss to you.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim to F&L is to defend legal action brought against them by a neighbour, 
therefore the claim circumstances dont fall within the cover offered by their previous policy 
which is limited to disputes with the tenant arising from the premises occupied by the tenant. 
Even if it did cover a claim of this nature, Mr and Mrs M didnt have continuous legal 
expenses insurance cover because this policy ended in September 2020 and their policy 
with F&L started in October 2020  so there is a break in insurance. 
For these reasons, I remain of the opinion that F&Ls failure to explore previous legal 
expenses insurance cover didnt make a difference here as there was no prior cover for this 
claim. And as Ive explained, Im satisfied the claim circumstances pre-date F&Ls policy 
cover as its decision to decline the claim was fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman