DRN-2272004
The complaint
Mr R complains about the poor customer service he received when he went to the local 
branch of Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
On 18 November 2019 Mr R went to his local branch of Lloyds. He says there was only one 
counter desk open and a long queue. When he complained he was told there were no other 
staff available. The next day he had to travel to another branch to complete his banking.
Mr R says he had a similar experience with long queues and limited staff when he went to 
the local branch a few weeks later on 2 December. He called the banks customer service 
centre to complain but says he was kept waiting for more than 5 minutes on each call.
Mr R feels the banks customer service is unacceptable and hes also unhappy he hasnt had 
a reply to his complaints of 19 November, 25 November and 3 December 2019.
Lloyds says its reduced the number of counter staff in branch to reflect the increasing use of 
internet and telephone banking and self-service tills. This is a business decision and it didnt 
agree it had done anything wrong.
 
Initially it also said it felt Mr Rs complaint were out of time to be considered by this service 
as they were referred more than six months after the date of its final response but 
subsequently it accepted that the complaints in 2019 were new complaints and were 
therefore able to be considered. 
 
Our investigator issued a first view and said it was for the bank to decide how to manage its 
business and we couldnt interfere with that. She said Lloyds had replied to Mr Rs complaint 
on 18 December 2019 and although Mr R said he hadnt received this, shed seen Lloyds 
had sent it to the correct address so she didnt feel Lloyds was responsible for it not arriving.
Mr R disagreed and said he still hadnt received a response to his complaints of 18 
November and 3 December 2019 or his email to the Chief Executive on 25 November. He 
also said hed tried contacting the bank at different times but the problems had remained the 
same.
Our investigator issued a second view and said Lloyds had replied to Mr Rs complaint of 18 
November 2019 on 26 November.  It seemed this had crossed with Mr Rs email to the Chief 
Executive of 25 November and so it hadnt responded to that. And it hadnt replied to Mr Rs 
second complaint of 3 December because it felt it was identical to the one it had replied to 
the week before. She felt Lloyds should have dealt with this as a new complaint but rather 
than delay matters by undertaking its own investigation, Lloyds had agreed to this service 
looking into the complaint. Shed done so and, having done so, she hadnt changed her view 
that it was for Lloyds to decide how to manage its business and that she couldnt ask it to 
change its procedures. 
However, while she didnt feel Lloyds had made a mistake, she suggested Lloyds make a 
voluntary payment of £50 to Mr R to help resolve his concerns about the delay in dealing 
with his complaint.  Lloyds agreed but Mr R did not. He said he felt £150 was more 
appropriate for what had happened and its impact on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs explained very clearly the problem he had on his two visits to his local branch in 
November and December 2019. I can understand how frustrating it must have been but as 
has been explained, Lloyds is entitled to decide how best to manage its branches. In this 
case its explained that its changed the way it runs its branches to reflect the increasing use 
of internet and telephone banking by its customers and to promote greater use of the self-
service tills. 
The way Lloyds manages its business is a commercial decision for the bank. Thats outside 
of the scope of this service and, for that reason, I cant tell Lloyds to make changes to the 
way it runs its branches even though I accept that Mr R finds it unsatisfactory. As this is a 
planned business decision, I cant say Lloyds has made a mistake or ask it to compensate 
Mr R for this. 
With regard to Mr Rs complaint, its clear there was some initial confusion as to what 
complaints Mr R had sent, and when. Lloyds has also said it felt the complaints in November 
and December 2019 were simply a repeat of the ones it had dealt with previously and for 
that reason it hadnt replied again.
Thats unfortunate but I can see Lloyds sent a response on 26 November to the complaint of 
18 November 2019. It seems it didnt reply to the one lodged on 3 December or to the email 
of 25 November because it believed they were identical to the first one. I appreciate Mr R 
considers this to be another example of poor service but the complaints were raising the 
same issues and were sent very close together, within a period of 2 weeks, so I dont find it 
surprising that Lloyds may have felt there was some crossover and not replied again. 
However, Lloyds has now offered to make a goodwill payment of £50 for any delay and I 
consider thats reasonable. I realise Mr R feels its not enough to reflect the inconvenience 
hes had but taking into account the short period over which this happened and the minimal 
impact on Mr R, I consider that it is fair. 
If Mr R wishes to accept Lloyds offer Id ask him to contact the bank direct but, for the 
reasons given, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman