DRN-3401649
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited is responsible for mishandling a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible 
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a luxury car made by a premium-brand 
car- maker and first registered in 2011.
Mr S acquired the car in 2020. For the year from November 2020, Mr S had the car insured 
on a comprehensive policy with Admiral.
Unfortunately, in late January 2021, an unknown driver damaged the front of the car.
Admiral instructed a repairer. On about 23 February 2021, the repairer said the car was 
ready for Mr S to collect. But Mr S identified some issues. And on about 24 February 2021, 
Mr S pointed out that the dashboard display screen wasnt working. 
In April 2021,Mr S took the car to a garage franchised by the car maker. The franchised 
garage said that on 19 February 2021, the vehicle had registered a fault with a unit related to 
the screen. Mr S complained to Admiral that it was responsible for putting the fault right.
By a final response dated May 2021, Admiral said it had referred the complaint to an 
independent vehicle assessor. Admiral turned down the complaint. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us in mid-July 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Admiral had done anything wrong. The investigator didnt find that Admiral had made any 
errors when repairing the vehicle after the accident.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He purchased the car in July 2020. He was not aware of the vehicle having a reset (if 
any) prior to purchasing the car. If there was a fault with the unit prior to his 
purchase, this was repaired. 
He has sent us video footage of the unit working dated 29 August 2020 and 1 and 2 
September 2020.
In November 2020, he had various repairs done to the car. He has sent us an invoice 
for £526.43 for these repairs. If the unit had not been working, he would have also 
had this repaired.
As the franchised garage is unable to find out when the fault was initially registered, 
there is a lot of ambiguity about when the initial fault happened.
Either the accident caused the damage or the fault occurred whilst the car was in the 
possession of the repairer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Ss evidence that the screen was working before the accident in January 2021.
However, the diagnostic report from the franchised garage in April 2021 showed the fault 
with the unit with the following note:
Frequency counter: 2. 
So I find that the fault had first appeared on a date before 19 February 2021 and occurred 
for a second time on that date.
Admirals file shows that  on 4 June 2021  it sent Mr S copies of the following:
images of the diagnostics as run on 16 February 2021; 
invoice from the specialist from 19 February 2021;
email from the independent assessor.
So Mr S has had an opportunity to provide technical evidence of his own.
In my view, theres no evidence that the accident damaged the unit. 
There isnt enough evidence to show when or why the unit stopped working the first time. 
Mr S has fallen well short of showing that Admiral or its repairer or its specialist was 
responsible for an act or omission that caused the unit to stop working.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay for a replacement of the unit or 
to pay compensation to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman