DRN-4389247
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly declined his claim 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product he purchased with a loan they provided to him.   
What happened
On or around 11 March 2009, Mr B (together with his partner) attended a meeting and sales 
presentation with a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as C. During that meeting, Mr B was 
presented with details of a points-based timeshare product. 
Mr B agreed to purchase 1,501 points for use against bookings of accommodation and 
experiences from a portfolio operated by C. The total purchase price agreed was £21,294, 
against which a trade in allowance of £5,595 was provided in respect of a trial membership 
Mr B had previously purchased from C. The balance of £15,699 was funded by a fixed sum 
loan in Mr Bs sole name provided by another business.
The total amount of the new loan was £17,049 as it included the refinance of existing 
borrowing of £1,350 which, it appears, related to the purchase of Mr Bs original trial 
membership. The loan was repayable in monthly instalments over a term of 120 months.
At the same meeting, Mr B also agreed to purchase 1,000 points under a different scheme 
operated by C at a cost of £2,000. This purchase was completed under a separate 
agreement and was funded by a credit card in Mr Bs sole name
Sometime later, the ongoing management and administration of Mr Bs loan was transferred 
to Shawbrook as part of a larger portfolio sale. In doing so, Shawbrook took on any 
obligations and responsibilities from the original lender associated with the loan
In or around April 2021, Mr B submitted a claim to Shawbrook under sections 75 and 140A 
of the CCA. Mr B has provided copies of various handwritten documents and letters. Some 
of these documents dont include addressees or dates. So, I havent been able to confidently 
establish which of the documents constituted the original claim. However, it appears Mr B 
raised various allegations of misrepresentation by C together with various reasons why he 
believes there was an unfair relationship between him, C and, consequently, Shawbrook.
Shawbrook provided their written response to Mr Bs claims in March 2022. They said Mr B 
had already raised a misrepresentation previously that was escalated to [this service] in 
2010. The response and our decision had already addressed various allegations. So, their 
response served only to address the new allegations raised. Specifically:
disclosure of and increases in annual maintenance fees;
the location of holidays available;
the unfair relationship claim (under section 140A of the CCA); and
[C] going bust.
Having considered the various claims, Shawbrook didnt agree C had made the alleged 
misrepresentations, or that the liquidation of C had led to a breach of contract. They also 
didnt agree that an unfair relationship existed.
Mr B didnt agree with their findings, so complained to Shawbrook. Shawbrook responded in 
June 2022 but didnt think theyd done anything wrong in rejecting his claim.
Mr B decided to refer his complaint to this service. In doing so, he outlined the full extent of 
his claim, including allegations previously included in his original claim and referral in 2010. 
He also referred to various attempts hed made to cancel the timeshare product contract and 
obtain a refund by engaging the services of various claims management companies 
(CMCs) in the UK and overseas. He explained how these had resulted in various claims 
against those CMCs with mixed success.
One of our investigators considered everything Mr B had said together with the documentary 
evidence available. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, the specifics of Mr Bs original 
claim in 2010 werent available. However, our investigator was provided with evidence from 
2010 which outlined some of those specifics together with the response given. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. In particular, having considered the later allegations made, they couldnt 
find any evidence to support Mr Bs allegations and didnt think it likely a court would find the 
relationship was unfair.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. In doing so, he referenced various Spanish 
court decisions and rulings. He thought these meant all claims against C should be upheld. 
But an informal resolution to Mr Bs complaint still couldnt be reached. So, his case has 
been referred to me to consider and reach a final decision.
Having done so, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our investigator, I 
considered a number of issues which I dont feel were previously fully addressed and wanted 
to give both sides the chance to respond. So, I issued a provisional decision on 7 September 
2023 giving opportunity for the parties to provide any additional comments or evidence they 
felt relevant before I reached a final decision. In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides consumers with protection for goods or 
services bought using credit. Ms S paid for the timeshare product with a restricted 
use fixed sum loan agreements. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This 
means that Mr B is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those 
provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 140A of the CCA (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between 
Mr B and Shawbrook arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any 
related agreement). And because the product purchased was funded under that 
credit agreement, theyre deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the 
power to make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered 
it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Bs complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (the LA). This is because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a 
loan with Shawbrook - took place in 2009. Only a court is able to make a ruling under 
the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and Guidance 
(DISP)Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide 
a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of 
the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this 
doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Its important to recognise that the complaint considered specifically relates to 
whether I believe Shawbrooks response to Mr Bs claim was fair and reasonable 
given all the evidence and information available to me. Where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is made on the 
balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in 
my decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going 
to refer to what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything 
thats been said and provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
Mr B says C misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits to 
him when he agreed to purchase the product. And he believes this brings cause for a 
claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr B had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement. Mr B says this took place in March 2009. Thats 
because this is when he says he lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
It appears a claim was submitted to the original lender sometime following the 
purchase in 2009. Ive seen evidence that a complaint relating to this claim was being 
considered by this service in the summer of 2010. However, it appears this wasnt 
upheld. Particularly as Mr B later made subsequent attempts to cancel the contract 
by enlisting the support of various CMCs. Theres no evidence the new claim for 
further alleged misrepresentations was submitted to Shawbrook until 2021. And as 
this was more than six years after the purchase was completed and Mr B first says 
he lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his new claim falls outside of the time 
limit permitted in the LA. 
Was the claim for breach of contract under S75 made in time?
Having read the submissions provided by Mr B. Ive found no overt reference to Cs 
liquidation or otherwise. However, Mr B does say he hasnt been able to use his 
membership to book holidays for some time. So, if proven, there is the possibility this 
could constitute a breach of contract. As for misrepresentation, a claim for breach of 
contract is also covered under section 9 of the LA. So, the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Its not 
entirely clear when it was Mr B first discovered he couldnt use his membership. But 
from what has been said, Im persuaded it was within six years of when the claim 
was submitted to Shawbrook. And on that basis, I think its likely a court would find 
Mr Bs claim for breach of contract was brought within the time limit permitted in the 
LA. 
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, it was the 
date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr B and Shawbrook continued while the finance agreement 
remained live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreement ended and any 
borrowing under it was repaid.
Shawbrook have provided a loan statement which confirms Mr Bs loan with them 
was fully repaid and closed in April 2019. As this was less than six years before his 
claim was submitted to Shawbrook, I believe its likely a court would find that Mr Bs 
S140A claim was made in time.
The claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Shawbrook) and the debtor (Mr 
B) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
So, I think the newly alleged misrepresentations are, therefore, relevant here. Even 
though I dont think the additional claims Mr B raised can be considered under S75 
due to limitation.
As Ive said above, there appear to be certain elements of Mr Bs claim to Shawbrook 
that have previously been included within an earlier claim in 2010. And because it 
appears these have already been considered, this service isnt afforded powers to 
revisit these aspects. As a result, I can only consider Mr Bs complaint against 
Shawbrook to the extent that it relates to any new allegations and the related claim. It 
appears thats what Shawbrook have done here, and on balance, I think that was a 
fair and reasonable approach to take.
Annual Fees 
Mr B claims these were never explained or highlighted to him and that he wasnt 
provided with any of the documentation explaining them. As Ive already said, the 
issue of documentation was previously addressed in the 2010 claim/complaint. 
However, its relevant that the Members Declaration (signed and initialled by Mr B) 
from the time of the sale specifically refers to the payment or maintenance fees at 
point 6, together with reference to the basis of their calculation. They are also 
referred to within the Acquisition Agreement Terms and Conditions.
Mr B has pointed out that he didnt initial next to point 5 of the declaration as he 
wasnt agreeable to paying annual fees. However, point 5 actually relates to ensuring 
the annual fees have been paid up to date for the product traded in  in this case his 
previous trial membership. And because Cs trial memberships doesnt include 
annual fees, this point wasnt relevant. I think this explains why this point wasnt initialled. Furthermore, if Mr B had objected to the payment of annual fees at the 
time, I find this at odds with him then initialling point 6 and still signing the agreement 
to proceed with the purchase.
Holiday locations and availability
Having considered the documents available from the time of the sale, I can find no 
suggestion that C provided any guarantees or assurances about holiday locations or 
their availability. Holiday locations were from within their portfolio. Alternatively, Mr B 
could use their approved exchange scheme  subject to any additional fees and 
charges that applied. In response to Mr Bs claim, Shawbrook confirmed that 
bookings are offered on a first come-first served basis and subject to availability. This 
is certainly my understanding of the product memberships offered by C. And in the 
absence of any evidence from the time to corroborate Mr Bs allegations here, I cant 
reasonably conclude that C did misrepresent this aspect to him.
The sales meeting and process
Mr M suggests he was coerced into purchasing the product through the use of 
aggressive commercial practices. In particular, he refers to:
othe length of the meeting;
obeing offered alcohol to the point of intoxication; and
othe use of witnesses who werent independent.
I acknowledge Mr B has said about this. So, I can understand why it might be argued 
that the prolonged presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, 
as Mr B approached the closing stages, he was going to have to make a decision on 
the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at 
a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr B agreed to the purchase in 2009 when he simply didnt want 
to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to 
C to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want to. And Mr B hasnt provided a 
credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase 
within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here. I acknowledge his claim that the 
cooling off period wasnt highlighted. But the documentation suggests different  in 
particular, his cancellation rights are clearly shown in block capital letters immediately 
above his own signature  YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO CANCEL THIS 
AGREEMENT. YOU HAVE UNTIL 25/03/2009 IN WHICH TO DO SO
If he only agreed to the purchase because he felt he was pressured or intoxicated, I 
find this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen 
anything substantive to suggest Mr B was obviously harassed or coerced into the 
purchase.  
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Shawbrook] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr B).
Mrs S already held a trial membership hed purchased previously from C. 
Importantly; this new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade in his existing 
timeshare product holding. It wasnt simply a new product purchase. And Mr B wasnt 
a new customer of C. So, its likely he wouldve benefitted from his previous 
experience and what he might expect from the meeting and sales presentation in 
2009.Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr Bs overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme 
imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Im not aware of any requirement for witnesses to be completely independent of C. 
Its normally accepted that this individuals role is merely to witness the purchasers 
signature. Further, theres also no expectation that any compliance officer is 
independent of C in these transactions. Their remit is normally to ensure all 
documents have been provided, understood and signed. And the declaration Mr B 
signed at the time confirms he received and understood everything.  
The claim for breach of contract
Mr B has suggested hes been unable to use his timeshare membership with C. So, 
Ive considered whether that was the case and why that might be. Its likely that this 
allegation is, to a large extent, underpinned by Mr Bs continued allegation about the 
lack of availability of holidays and accommodation. However, Ive already addressed 
this aspect above.
Ive seen a copy of a letter Mr B sent to C requesting relinquishment of his 
membership. Unfortunately, the letter isnt dated. But it does refer to correspondence 
from C dated 22 May 2018. So, its reasonable to conclude the letter was sent after 
that date. In it Mr B tells C that his financial circumstances prevent him from paying 
his 2018 fees.
Relinquishment of Mr Bs membership requires that all fees are paid up to date and 
that he returns his timeshare certificate. But Mr B says hed never received the 
certificate. Again, this is an aspect included in his original claim in 2010. So, Im 
unable to consider this aspect again. 
Im also aware that annual management fees are payable in advance in January of 
each year. So, unless these were paid in January 2018 and the certificate had been 
returned, I can understand why C might not be able to complete Mr Bs membership 
relinquishment request. 
Ive seen a copy of an indemnity signed by Mr B (and his partner) in August 2018 
enabling them to obtain a duplicate certificate. But Ive seen no evidence the 2018 
fees were brought up to date. Shawbrook also confirmed this in their claim response. 
As a consequence of not paying the management fees, it appears Mr Bs 
membership was suspended. And that appears to be the reason why he cant use his 
membership rather than any contractual breach by C. Point 2 of the Members 
Declaration from the time of the sale confirms this  We understand that our Points 
may be used each year for accommodation [] provided that all annual fees are paid 
up to date, [].
On a separate point, I understand that members and owners of Cs product have 
been able to continue to use their membership to book holidays and experiences, 
regardless of the impact of any insolvency process.
Given my findings above, Im not persuaded theres been a breach of contract that 
Shawbrook would be liable for under any like claim under S75.
Mr Bs response to the investigators findings
Mr B has referenced a Spanish Court Ruling against C and believes this means this 
service should uphold all claims against C. He also refers to a judicial review (JR) in 
relation to products sold by C. The timeshare product agreement Mr B entered into states that it is governed by 
English Law, not Spanish Law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment Mr B refers to 
could be applied directly to the question of whether the contract is voidable under 
English Law. They are distinct and separate legal jurisdictions, so I cant see how it 
would apply in this case.
Im familiar with the JR Mr B refers to. It has now been completed and the findings 
have been published. But its relevant to say that this JR specifically relates to certain 
unique aspects of the product type reviewed. And that product is different to the one 
Mr B purchased. So, I dont think the outcome of that JR helps Mr Bs complaint here.
Financial Checks
Mr B says the original lender didnt complete any financial checks on him when 
agreeing the loan. When the loan was agreed and provided in 2009 the Office of Fair 
Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidelines applied and set out expectations about 
the checks and tests that the original lender shouldve done. Upon taking over 
responsibility for Mr Bs loan, Shawbrook took on those specific responsibilities.
Shawbrook havent provided any explanation or evidence to support how and if a 
credit assessment was completed. And given the passage of time, its likely that 
information is no longer available anyway. If I were to find that the original lender 
(now Shawbrook) hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, 
they wouldve revealed that loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr B 
in order to uphold his complaint here.
However, I havent seen any information about Mr Bs actual financial situation at the 
time. And theres no obvious suggestion or evidence he struggled to maintain 
repayments. So, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him. And 
given the loan was fully repaid in April 2019  as originally agreed - there doesnt 
appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
I do appreciate that Mr B is clearly very unhappy with the product he purchased, 
further frustrated by his inability to benefit from it. Much of the information hes 
provided crosses over into different claims for different services and products. In 
particular, he refers to chargeback requests and claims for CMC services and 
another points product he purchased from C.
Ultimately, his claim here is made under the CCA and specifically relates to the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. And that loan agreement specifically relates to the 
points-based product it was used to fund in 2009. So, in considering his complaint, 
Ive done so in so far as it relates to his claim for that product sale only.
Having considered everything hes said, together with all the evidence and 
information available, I havent found anything that leads me to believe Shawbrooks 
response to his complaint was unfair or unreasonable. So, I dont intend to ask them 
to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed they have no 
further comments to add.
Mr B also acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. In doing so, he undertook to 
provide further questions together with a list of things he thought Id missed. He also asked that I specifically comment on why this service cant uphold the Spanish court decision. 
That being said, Ive not received any further comments or questions from Mr B.
I believe I covered the question of the Spanish court ruling against C in my provisional 
decision. But for clarity, Ill address this in further detail. Mr Bs purchase agreement makes it 
clear that it is governed by English Law  not Spanish law. So, as Ive already said, I dont 
think any Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of whether Mr Bs 
timeshare agreement is void under English Law. In any event, Mr Bs assertion is that the 
Spanish ruling effectively meant that all of Cs timeshare agreements werent valid. I dont 
believe thats the case here for the reasons Ill explain below.
Mr B hasnt been specific about which particular Spanish Court ruling hes referring to. So, it 
isnt possible for me to establish whether the circumstances or specifics of his purchase 
agreement were the same as the ruling to which he refers. And in any event, as I also said in 
my provisional decision, this service isnt able to make legal decisions. So, Im not in a 
position to apply the Spanish Decision to English Law. 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (The 
TRs) served to implement EU Directive 2008/122/EC into English Law. The 2008 Directive 
took into account various EU (and constituent jurisdiction) rulings. So, while I dont believe a 
Spanish Court Ruling can be directly applied to English Law, I do believe the 2008 Directive 
serves this purpose. So, accepting that the TRs came into force after Mr Bs purchase in 
2009, I think theyre relevant in establishing whether the purchase agreement Mr B entered 
into was valid given they served to implement the 2008 Directive.
Having considered the TRs, Im satisfied that Mr Bs agreement falls within the definition of a 
timeshare contract contained within them. So, Im also satisfied that these types of timeshare 
have never been prohibited to be sold under English Law, whether at the time of Mr Bs sale 
or after. 
In summary, Ive not found anything that persuades me to vary from my provisional findings. 
And because of that, I wont be asking Shawbrook to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman