DRN-3191125
The complaint
Ms J says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave her loans that 
she couldnt afford because she was gambling at the time and on a low income. She said 
her credit file was poor and that Lending Stream provided the loans without doing proper 
checks.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Ms J loans as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount *Highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 11/02/2014 2/06/2014 6 £100.00 £54.00
2 30/05/2014 6/01/2015 6 £150.00 £107.80
3 31/05/2014 25/11/2014 6 £300.00 £269.80
4 7/06/2014 27/07/2014 6 £50.00 £270.00
5 3/09/2014 18/02/2015 6 £170.00 £227.70
6 25/09/2014 27/04/2015 6 £200.00 £278.60
7 17/10/2014 18/02/2015 6 £130.00 **
8 27/12/2014 Sold 6 £190.00 **
9 7/02/2015 Sold 6 £210.00 **
10 19/02/2015 Sold 6 £250.00 **
11 21/02/2015 Sold 6 £250.00 **
12 15/05/2015 Outstanding 6 £140.00 **
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
** this information isnt relevant to my decision so I have not included it 
When Ms J complained to Lending Stream it said it had worked out that all these loans were 
affordable as she had enough spare cash to make the repayments. But after thinking about 
the number of loans and the time that passed between each loan being opened Lending 
Stream said it could see that it might not have been a good idea to provide loans 6-12. So it 
made an offer to refund these loans.
Ms J didnt feel this went far enough to settle her complaint and so she brought her 
complaint to us.
After carefully reviewing all the available information, our adjudicator thought that he hadnt 
seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream to have provided loans 15. So he didnt 
uphold Ms Js complaint about those loans. But he said Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided loans 6-12 to Ms J. He explained why and set out the steps he said Lending 
Stream should take to put things right for Ms J  this included some additional redress that 
went beyond what Lending Stream had previously offered in terms of the information about 
loans 6-12 that would remain on Ms Js credit file.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of what our adjudicator had said and 
told us that it was willing to accept the outcome of our adjudicators findings and his 
settlement recommendations. Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had 
worked out and we forwarded this information to Ms J. 
Ms J isnt happy with this proposed settlement. She mainly says that from the start her credit 
score was poor and she was addicted to gambling and borrowing from other lenders 
throughout. So she feels that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided her with any of these 
loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Lending Stream 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Lending Stream was required to establish 
whether Ms J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, 
evidence and information provided in this context and what this all means for Ms Js 
complaint. 
Ive independently looked at Ms Js complaint afresh and considered all the loans that 
Lending Stream provided to her. Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator  and for the 
same reasons that the adjudicator has explained. But Ill say a bit more about why I say this 
 and even though its not the outcome Ms J is looking for, I hope this is helpful in explaining 
my decision.
When assessing affordability Lending Stream asked Ms J about her income and expenditure 
and did some background checks to verify what she had said, including looking at payslips, 
doing its own credit checks and, for the later loans, asking to see some bank statements.  
Loans 1-3
Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for Ms J, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. I've taken into 
account the loan repayment amounts and what was apparent about Ms Js circumstances at 
the time. Even after boosting the amount Ms J said she spent each month, Loan 1 still 
looked easily affordable for Ms J based on what shed told Lending Stream about her 
financial situation and the information it had gathered. As this was her first loan, I dont think 
Lending Stream had any reason to think it needed to ask for any more information from Ms J 
or do more to check what she was saying about her circumstances. 
Ms J took out loans 2 and 3 just a day or so apart and a few days before she repaid her first 
loan so she had three outstanding loans with Lending Stream and the total amount she 
owed had gone up considerably  loan 3 was three times the amount she had borrowed 
when she took out loan 1. Ive thought carefully about what conclusions it would be 
reasonable to expect Lending Stream to draw from this. On balance, I dont think these 
things on their own, at this early stage in the relationship between Lending Stream and Ms J, 
are enough to have alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that Ms J mightve been finding 
it hard to repay her borrowing. Loans 2 and 3 should still have been comfortably affordable 
for Ms J looking at the financial information Lending Stream had relied on. 
Overall, looking at the repayments that Ms J needed to make on the first three loans, the 
amounts wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income 
recorded for her. And I havent seen enough to make me think that even if Lending Stream 
had done more in-depth checks it wouldve seen the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. So 
thats why Im not upholding Ms Js complaint about loans 1 - 3.loan 4
Ms J applied to borrow loan 4 just a week or so after taking loan 3  and she was still paying 
loans 2 and 3. But she was borrowing just £50  this was by far the smallest loan shed 
asked Lending Stream for. So I dont think Lending Stream wouldve been concerned that 
this was a sign of money problems. The loan still looked affordable - the information Ms J 
gave Lending Stream suggested she had ample disposable income.
Ms J has sent me some bank statements from around this time which show me in more 
detail what she was spending her money on. And this has given me some insight into her 
financial situation at the time. Having thought carefully about this information, I havent seen 
enough to show that Lending Stream shouldve decided not to agree this loan had it asked 
all the questions I think it shouldve done. For this reason, Im not upholding Ms Js complaint 
about loan 4.
loan 5
Ms J increased the amount of her borrowing again and she hadnt cleared all her previous 
loans with Lending Stream. I think Lending Stream needed to take more steps than it has 
shown me it did to ensure it had a proper understanding of Ms Js financial situation before 
agreeing to lend further. But thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to 
uphold Ms js complaint about this loan. I say this because I havent seen anything in the 
information available to me, which includes bank statements from Ms J, which shows 
Lending Stream would have decided not to agree this loan had it done what I consider 
wouldve been a more proportionate check. For this reason, Im not planning to uphold Ms 
Js complaint about loan 5.
loan 6
Like our adjudicator, I think Lending Stream was correct to acknowledge that it shouldnt 
have provided loan 6 onwards. By loan 6, I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that 
Ms Js overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-
term loans. So I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 6 to Ms J or any of the 
loans that followed. As Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it 
is willing to take the steps he suggested to put things right for Ms J, I dont think I need to 
say more about why its fair to uphold the complaint from this point on. 
And I agree with the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint. Its in line with 
our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these circumstances, 
bearing in mind that Ms J has had the benefit of the money she borrowed. So I think Lending 
Stream should now do what it has agreed to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms J, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly as a relationship existed between 
Ms J and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible. Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms J in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So Lending Stream should do the following in respect of loans 6-12: 
Lending Stream should buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Or if Lending Stream isnt able to buy back debt it has sold, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest fees and charges 
on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything already refunded
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans 
and treat any repayments made by Ms J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms J having made overpayments then 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms J. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms J and shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off
E) The overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about 
loan 6 onwards is adverse, so ultimately these loans should be removed entirely from Ms Js 
credit file. Lending Stream does not have to remove outstanding loans from Ms Js credit file 
until these have been repaid, but meanwhile it should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Ms Js complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman