DRN-3803611
The complaint
Mr B complains about a claim he made on his home emergency insurance policy with 
London Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). Mr B wants LV to correct their policy 
documents and provide him with compensation. 
LV are the underwriters of this insurance policy. Any reference to LV also includes the 
actions of any agents  such as engineers acting on their behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr B and LV. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have. In summary, Mr B 
made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy when there was a gas leak at his 
property. LV sent out an engineer who capped the supply - but Mr B felt LV shouldve done 
more and he was without a gas supply for around two weeks afterwards.  
Mr B complained to LV, but they didnt uphold the complaint. He then referred it to our 
Service for an independent review. Out Investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. As Mr B didnt accept their findings, the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Ive noted Mr Bs references to a previous water related claim and also how the buildings 
insurance part of his cover responded. But this decision is only about this claim made on this 
home emergency cover. Any dissatisfaction with his buildings insurance would need to 
raised as a separate complaint. 
Have LV fairly and reasonably considered and responded to Mr Bs claim  in line with the 
policy terms?
Im satisfied that LV responded to this claim in a timely manner. They arranged for an 
engineers visit on the same day that theyd been notified of the leak.
By the time the engineer arrived, a third party engineer had already capped the gas supply 
outside of the property. LVs engineer recapped the gas supply as no pipework was visible to 
the boiler or cooker and advised that Mr B would need to raise a claim under their buildings 
insurance policy - as gas leak trace and access wasnt covered under this home emergency 
policy.
I dont consider the actions of LV unreasonable here. Home emergency policies by their 
nature are typically only intended to provide cover in response to an emergency and 
generally complement other policies  such as buildings insurance. This policy defined 
emergency as:
a sudden and unforeseen incident at your home which, if not dealt with quickly, will: 
 make your home unsafe or insecure; 
 cause damage to your home and/or its contents; or 
 leave your home without essential services.
The emergency here was a sudden and unexpected gas leak. As a third party engineer had 
isolated the supply (prior to LVs engineer arriving) - in effect, the emergency was over and 
the home emergency insurance policy with LV didnt need to respond further. Whilst Ive 
noted Mr Bs comments about the policy terms being unclear or contradictory (the gas being 
capped leaving his home without essential services), the alternative - to leave the supply on 
whilst there was an ongoing leak, would be reckless. 
I say this because although Mr B believes that LV shouldve restored the gas supply to his 
property - this would have required trace and access to identify the exact leak. As outlined 
already, this wasnt covered by this policy. Therefore, to cap the gas supply was reasonable 
of LV. In any case, its beyond my remit to direct a business to change their policy terms.
The LV engineer advised Mr B that he should raise a claim under his buildings cover and I 
believe this to be fair. Under general exceptions, this policy stated:
the cost of further work if our approved repairer has resolved the immediate
emergency by completing a temporary repair;
the cost of repairs more specifically insured under your home insurance or any
other policy;
Overall, I find that LV fairly and reasonably considered and responded to Mr Bs claim and 
resolved the immediate emergency  in line with the policy terms. I dont uphold this 
complaint. I find that LV dont need to do anything further or award compensation. 
Whilst my decision will disappoint Mr B, it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and LV. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman