DRN-2473765
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) relates to Tescos decision to 
decline his application for a credit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M made an online application for a credit card with Tesco. At the time he had an 
extremely good credit score, but Tesco declined the application as it said Mr M didnt meet 
its lending criteria. Mr M feels as though he would meet at least 90% of Tescos criteria and 
also points out that he already has a credit product with them, jointly with another person. He 
has also given this service details of his income and capital position, which would indicate he 
is financially comfortable. 
Mr M quite naturally wishes to know why his application failed and is concerned about the 
impact that may have on him in future. He has made the point that he might be asked if he 
has ever had an application for credit declined, and in the knowledge that he has, he would 
like to be able to offer an explanation. All of that is very understandable. 
Mr M accepts Tesco are entitled to decide what its lending criteria will be and who it will lend 
to. And I think he further accepts that its lending criteria is commercially sensitive and not 
something it would wish to be disclosed into the public domain. What Mr M is after, is the 
precise factor or factors which determined he was not eligible for this credit card.
Mr Ms application was initially declined automatically by Tescos systems. Thereafter, Tesco 
looked at the application again, this time manually through its underwriting team, but the 
result remained the same. Tesco has explained that Mr Ms application did not solely depend 
on his credit score, or his income, but on other factors too. And although Tesco has been 
asked by our investigator to give more detail in order to satisfy Mr Ms complaint, it has 
refused, stating that it is not obliged to do so. Tesco have said it doesnt need to further 
explain or justify its decision.
This service has no power to tell Tesco that it must disclose any further information about its 
reasons, or that it must tell Mr M what the specific reason was for declining his application. I 
would however expect Tesco to provide a reason for declining an application, and I find that 
it has done so. It has said Mr M did not meet its lending criteria at the time of the application. 
And Im satisfied that they looked at the application carefully, applying their criteria both 
automatically and manually, and in my view they have treated his application fairly. I 
appreciate the result is not one Mr M would wish for, but it is a result Tesco are entitled to 
reach.
So, Im satisfied Tesco were entitled to reach the decision it did. I also find Tesco treated Mr 
M fairly, as it conducted a manual review of his application by referring it to its underwriting 
team and applying its lending criteria applicable at the time of the application. So, whilst I 
recognise that this is and has been immensely frustrating for Mr M, I cant say Tesco has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman