DRN-3888343
The complaint
Miss J said shed taken separate financial advice, and had firmly decided she wanted to 
change both her mortgage accounts with Nationwide Building Society into one, although this 
meant paying an early repayment charge (ERC) on one. She complains that Nationwide is 
insisting she has a 90 minute appointment with its mortgage advisor to achieve that. 
What happened
Miss J holds two mortgages with Nationwide. She wanted to switch both of these mortgages 
to one, single, new mortgage deal. Miss J said shed had advice from a mortgage broker 
about this, but Nationwide wouldnt allow her to just go ahead with the change. It said that, 
because one of her two existing mortgages was still subject to an ERC until mid-2023, the 
broker couldnt action this change for her. And it wouldnt simply action her request itself. 
Instead, it required her to have a 90 minute interview with one of its mortgage advisors.
Miss J also said she didnt think the provisions in her original mortgage offer were clear
about the ERC that would apply, but shes clarified that her complaint to us is just about
Nationwides insistence that Miss J take mortgage advice from it, before it would allow her to
repay the ERC on one of her two mortgages, and change all her lending onto a new deal.
Miss J said the complaint was that she had sought and received professional independent
mortgage advice, but that Nationwide wouldnt accept that. And she said that she is out of
the house from 7am until 6.30pm daily, and weekend appointments were only available
several weeks in advance. Although Nationwide had offered to honour the rates available
when Miss J booked her appointment, rather than whenever the appointment could actually
be held, Miss J said this would still involve her wasting her time with a 90 minute phone
appointment. And she didnt trust Nationwide to do this.
Nationwide said Miss Js two separate mortgage accounts with it were both on fixed interest
rate deals. One was due to end on 30 June 2022, but the other wasnt due to end until 31
July 2023. Miss J was able to use a broker to switch her rate on the first mortgage, as it was
approaching the end of its fixed rate term, so the change would be applied once the term
ended.
Nationwide said Miss J maintained shed been told she could simply call Nationwide and
submit the rate switch she wanted, and her ERC could be added to the mortgage. But
neither of those things were right. ERCs have to be paid upfront and cannot be added to the
mortgage. The Nationwide staff member responsible for liaising with Miss Js broker could
show hed said this to the broker. And he hadnt said Miss J could simply call. Nationwide
still said she would have to have an appointment with a mortgage advisor. Miss J was then
booked in for this appointment, but she said she had other commitments and didn't have the
time to complete the application.
Nationwide wouldnt waive the appointment. But it said as a gesture of goodwill, when Miss J
had her mortgage appointment, it would allow her to choose from the products that were
available at the time the complaint was made, on 31 March 2022. Nationwide sent this letter
to Miss J on 12 May. But as of October 2022, Miss J hadnt switched her interest rate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he understood Miss J
couldnt easily take calls during the day, and he would understand her frustration at having to
spend 90 minutes speaking to Nationwide when her own advisor had already provided her
with advice. But he said that its a business decision for Nationwide as to whether it requires
Miss J to take advice before incurring an ERC. He didnt think that was unreasonable, and
he also noted that Nationwide isnt under any regulatory obligation to rely on advice provided
by independent advisors in this circumstance - it can choose to provide advice itself.
Our investigator thought that how Nationwide offered to resolve things for Miss J was
reasonable. So he didnt think Nationwide needed to take any further action.
Miss J didnt agree. She said she didnt feel her opinion as a consumer had been fully
considered. She said the position Nationwide had put her in was going to affect her, as rates
had now increased. Miss J said that a 90 minute interview wasnt just a waste of time for her,
but also for Nationwide as she had already made a decision based on a recommendation by
her mortgage adviser. She said any such appointment would have to be after 6pm or on a
weekend. And she wanted to know what the point was of obtaining and even paying for
independent advice only for a lender - who is at no risk whatsoever of a future complaint as it
didnt provide the advice - to ignore said advice and decline a customers fully informed
decision. She thought independent advice should be encouraged.
Our investigator said he would agree that independent advice should be encouraged. And if
there was to be a big wait for an interview, with rising costs in the meantime, then he would
also have agreed that wouldn't be fair. But he still didnt think Nationwides approach was
unreasonable, and it had offered to honour the rates available at the time if Miss J wasnt
able to attend the interview quickly. He still thought that was a fair offer to make and wouldn't
have disadvantaged Miss J. A 90 minute interview wasnt unreasonable in circumstances
where she was looking to break a fixed rate mortgage and pay early repayment charges.
Miss J said the only thing she would consider to be a fair outcome, would be if she didnt
have to sit through an unnecessary 90 minute interview that she had already done
independently, assuming Nationwide would still honour the rates it promised and would
backdate any additional interest costs she had incurred.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss J considers Nationwide should simply execute the changes she wishes to make, 
without providing her with mortgage advice. However, I note the change Miss J wishes 
to make requires her to pay an ERC, because shes choosing to end a fixed interest rate 
deal early.
Nationwide has said that it isnt possible for Miss Js broker to achieve this for her. I 
dont think its unreasonable for Nationwides systems not to allow her broker to make 
this change.
So Nationwide has to action this change for Miss J. And in those circumstances, where 
Nationwide is actioning the change, not her broker, it wants to be sure that Miss J has 
been properly advised about this. Again, I dont think thats unreasonable.Miss J queried this. She wanted to know why Nationwide wouldnt simply accept that 
she had been advised by a broker. But I dont think that, in these circumstances where 
Nationwide is making the change itself (which Ive explained I think is a reasonable 
arrangement for Nationwide to have adopted here) that Nationwide has to rely on Miss 
Js reassurance that she has been fully advised on this elsewhere.
Miss J just says Nationwide has no responsibility for her actions if shes received advice 
from a broker, so it shouldnt be insisting she takes advice from it. But what Miss J 
wants to do isnt necessarily going to be suitable for everyone. And there would be no 
cast iron guarantee from our service that a complaint against Nationwide wouldnt be 
upheld in future, if it usually thinks people in this situation would benefit from advice, but 
waives that requirement for Miss J.
I note that Miss J was concerned that rates would rise, while she was waiting for a 
mortgage appointment to become available at a time that she could attend. However, in 
response to her complaint, Nationwide offered on 12 May to hold open for her the rates 
that were available when she complained, on 31 March. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable offer for Nationwide to make at that time.
Miss J hasnt accepted that. And she has been very clear with our service that she 
would not consider any resolution to this complaint to be fair and reasonable if it 
continues to require her to participate in a 90-minute interview. In the interim, as Miss J 
is aware, interest rates have changed.
I dont think its reasonable to require Nationwide to set aside its requirement for Miss J 
to have an advised interview with one of its own advisors, for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
I should also note that our investigator didnt comment expressly on whether 
Nationwides offer to hold open for Miss J the interest rates which were available on 31 
March 2022, had to be honoured now. I think the fact that Nationwide made this offer in 
mid-May, meant it had then dealt fairly with Miss J. But theres nothing in that offer 
which states it is open-ended. And I dont think this was intended by Nationwide to be an 
entirely open-ended offer. Nor do I think that Nationwide would be required to make 
such an offer now, in order to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
So I leave it to Nationwide to decide if it will honour this offer now. Theres nothing in my 
decision which requires Nationwide to do so.
I know that Miss J will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add. 
A family member of Miss J replied on her behalf, to say he found it incredibly disappointing 
that an apparent independent body would deem it acceptable for a customer to effectively be required to pay for advice twice when she has already received a recommendation from an 
independent adviser. (He said he meant pay both in in terms of fee and of time.)
Miss Js representative said that seeking advice independent from ones existing lender 
would be - in some situations - a waste of time, when the lender didnt feel able to trust (or 
even disclaim) this independent advice. He said he could understand that a business would 
want to apply its own processes, but he thought this instance required pragmatism and 
understanding on Nationwides part. And he said that, more importantly, this actually 
discourages the very thing that the FCA encourages; seeking independent advice.
He repeated that he was disappointed, and said although he considered Nationwide to be 
one of the better providers of financial services, he still thought my decision had favoured it.
I understand why Miss Js representative is disappointed by my decision, and Im sorry thats 
the case. As I hope is clear from my provisional decision, I had thought about whether the 
process Nationwide had in place produced an unfair or unreasonable outcome in this 
particular case, given Miss J had told us that she had extremely limited availability. But I do 
think its reasonable for Nationwide to say that what Miss J wanted to do is something it 
prefers its customers to have taken advice on, because paying an ERC to end a mortgage 
deal early wont be suitable for everyone. And I also had to bear in mind that, when Miss J 
first approached Nationwide, she appeared to have understood she could add the ERC to 
her mortgage. She seemed to have reached her decision on that basis. But Nationwide said 
it could show that it had told the broker this wasnt possible. 
I dont know how this misunderstanding happened. I havent reached any view on how that 
went wrong, because Miss J hasnt complained about this. But I do think its relevant 
background to my decision here that there does seem to have been some misapprehension 
of how Nationwide would proceed, in what Miss J had understood after her discussions with 
her independent advisor. Against that background, I still think that it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to say it wouldnt waive its usual requirement for an advised interview, before 
Miss J made the change she wanted to her mortgage.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman