DRN-3240192
The complaint
Mr W complains, in summary, that TSB Bank plc did not do enough to help him recover 
payments made to a scam forex trading company through the Visa chargeback scheme. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below. 
Between May 2018 to August 2018, Mr W made seven payments (using his TSB Visa debit 
card linked to his current account) to TradeTime  a forex trading company  after seeing 
their advert online. By December 2018 Mr W became concerned when he discovered 
TradeTime was not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). That led him to 
approach TSB to ask the bank to retrieve his money. 
TSB requested some information from Mr W and based on the information he provided, 
chargebacks were processed, though TSB advised the chargeback reason code it used 
was easily defendable. TradeTimes bank defended the chargeback claims and TSB decided 
not to take the claims any further. 
Our investigator concluded, first of all, that TradeTime was a scam forex trading company. 
He felt that TSB should have submitted the chargeback claims to VISA differently using a 
more appropriate reason code. As a result, he recommended that the bank should refund to 
Mr W his outstanding money, plus interest.
 
Although Mr W accepted the investigators suggestion, TSB did not. It said, amongst other 
things, it had only one opportunity to raise a chargeback under a particular reason code. And 
it advised Mr W of his best option and he was adamant he wanted to pursue the claim his 
way  so it agreed to do so on his behalf. 
On 10 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Firstly, I dont dispute that Mr W was the victim of a forex trading scam and TradeTime was 
not regulated (as required) by the FCA at the time they contracted with Mr W. There are also 
regulator warnings published about TradeTime (albeit a while after Mr W made all of his 
payments to them). 
Whilst Im satisfied this was a scam rather than a bad investment. The chargeback scheme 
rules dont automatically entitle Mr W to a refund based on the circumstances here. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after 
two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to 
second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the 
regulated card issuer (i.e. TSB) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing 
not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Mr W is upset because TSB refused to pursue his chargeback claims under reason code 
13.1 (goods/services not received). 
In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of TSB to drop Mr Ws chargeback claims when 
TradeTimes bank defended the claims and Ill explain why. First, when Mr W originally 
asked TSB to assist him with chargeback claims, TSB requested some specific information 
from him. Amongst other things, this included: 
a copy of the withdrawal request
proof that the funds were available to withdraw
 
Mr W replied to TSBs request and explained his funds could never have been loaded onto 
a trading account because TradeTime were not appropriately licensed.
 
TSB requested some further evidence from Mr W to support his claims and concluded it 
would be better to attempt chargebacks under reason code 13.5 (misrepresentation). But 
it required some specific evidence from Mr W. Mr W disagreed and insisted that TSB 
attempt chargebacks using reason code 13.1. TSB explained that it could only dispute a 
transaction once and if the dispute is defended, it cannot use a different reason a second 
time. It further explained that all TradeTime would need to provide is evidence that any 
service was received and if they did so, TSB would lose the chargeback claim. Mr W 
insisted once again that TSB process chargeback claims using reason code 13.1. TSB did 
so and the claims were defended.
 
Visa expanded its chargeback rules to cover problems with withdrawals relating to binary-
options (or forex) trading after 14 October 2017, see Visa Business News, 26 October 
2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out 
via the chargeback process
However, reason code 53, later re-coded to 13.5, required TSB to present dated evidence 
that Mr W had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the 
merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balances 
on the same day.
 
Though not material to the circumstances of this case, it is worth adding for completeness 
that, from 1 December 2018, Visas rules changed again to require binary-options merchants 
(and other high-brand risk merchants) to be coded under Merchant Category Code 
(MCC) 7995Betting, including Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, 
and Wagers at Race Tracks. Visa Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these merchants 
are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require licensing by 
the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason code 12.7 
(invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a much shorter 
timescale of 75 days from the transaction date for a claim to be processed. This reason 
code would not have been applicable to Mr W because merchants like TradeTime were not 
yet required by Visa to re-code at the time of his transactions.
 
As the disputed transactions occurred in 2018 (after the changes to Visas chargeback 
reason codes were published), TSB could only have successfully processed Mr Ws 
chargeback claims further than it did if he had the evidence required of reason code 13.5. 
And by the time Mr W realised hed fallen victim to a scam (sometime after his final 
payment), he didnt have this evidence.
 
I think TSB tried to assist Mr W by at least attempting chargebacks using the reason code he 
insisted upon but when they were defended, TSB had no further grounds to pursue Mr Ws 
claims. And this is because TradeTimes defence satisfied the defence requirements of 
reason code 13.1. The defence also evidenced that Mr W was able to successfully withdraw 
funds from his trading account. So, declining to pursue the chargeback claims further in 
circumstances where there were no reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair 
nor unreasonable exercise of TSBs discretion.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt respond to my decision but I assume it has no objections to it. 
Mr W responded to my decision and was disappointed with the outcome. He said in either 
chargeback instance, once TradeTime defended the claim, TSB would have closed his case. 
He noted TSB were pushing for him to go with reason code 13.5  when he did not even 
have the evidence required by Visa for such a chargeback. 
Mr W also queried what TSB did to prevent him transferring money to a scam company as 
he doesnt recall it blocking any of the transactions or warning him that he may have fallen 
victim to a scam. Mr W also provided a snapshot of TSBs fraud guarantee. Mr W doesnt 
think TSB or I have treated him fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld  for the 
reasons that follow.
I was mindful that TSB encouraged Mr W to use reason code 13.5 to process his 
chargeback claims when he did not have the required evidence. But I dont think it did this as 
a way of preventing Mr W from recovering his funds. I think it suggested this option because 
it was the most appropriate reason code to use for Mr Ws investment trading dispute. 
Mr W is correct in saying that if TradeTime would have defended chargeback claims relating 
to either 13.1 or 13.5 then TSB would have dropped the claims. As I explained before, chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa. It does not give cardholders the automatic 
right to recover their funds and dispute rights must exist if a card issuer (TSB) is to attempt a 
chargeback claim. As part of those dispute rights, there is a requirement for the card issuer 
to present specific evidence. The rules are set by Visa rather than TSB, so I think TSB tried 
to assist Mr W in recovering his money given that he claimed he was the victim of a scam. 
And if TradeTime didnt defend the claims, they would have succeeded. I think TSB tried to 
help Mr W as best it could but once the claims were defended by TradeTime, it had no 
reasonable prospect of success by pursuing the claims any further. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr W but I do not think TSB treated him unfairly in 
regards to his chargeback claims and it follows that I dont think it could have done more 
than it did. 
Mr W queries what TSB did to prevent him falling victim to a scam and noted its TSB Fraud 
Refund Guarantee. Ive only considered the complaint made to TSB and to this service 
which was very specifically about TSBs handling of Mr Ws chargeback claims. Ive not 
considered what TSB did to prevent the scam because Mr W did not complain about this to 
TSB or this service when he referred his complaint. This is a new issue and should Mr W 
want to complain about this now, he should contact TSB directly to raise a formal complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and despite my natural sympathies for Mr W, I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman