DRN-2921409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about the customer service they received from Cynergy Bank 
Limited when an international payment they were expecting into their account with it was 
rejected.
The account is in joint names of Mr and Mrs B, but for ease Ive referred to Mr B throughout 
my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, in July 2020 Mr B arranged to sell his car to a buyer based in another country. 
The buyer made a same-day electronic payment to Mr and Mrs Bs bank account with 
Cynergy Bank, but the funds werent credited. When Mr B questioned this, Cynergy Bank 
said the account only accepted payments from a UK bank or building society account. It also 
said the funds had been returned to the buyer. But the buyer didnt receive them until around 
two weeks later. 
Mr B complained and sent several emails to Cynergy Bank during this period as he was 
concerned a large sum of money had gone missing. He was also worried the buyer 
suspected him of committing fraud. Cynergy Bank apologised for the significant delays in 
responding to his emails, as well as for misinforming him of the expected time frame for the 
receipt of funds in the buyers account. It offered Mr B £100 in recognition of this. But Mr B 
didnt consider this fair compensation. He said as a result of what had happened, he had to: 
sell his car for a £1,000 less than originally advertised; add accessories worth £450 for free 
to conclude the sale; and deal with the shipping company directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about his complaint. This experience was clearly 
frustrating for him. Cynergy Bank accepts it made mistakes. So, what I need to decide here 
is whether the compensation its offered is fair. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr B has already acknowledged he didnt realise his account doesnt accept 
payments from outside the UK. Just for completeness, Ive reviewed the terms and 
conditions of the account and this information is made sufficiently clear. So, Im 
satisfied Cynergy Bank didnt act unfairly in rejecting the payment in question.
As the investigator has explained, not every bank has a direct business relationship 
with other banks in the world. So, there may be one or more intermediaries  known 
as correspondent banks  involved. Cynergy Bank has shown us it returned the 
funds back to its correspondent bank on the same day, and its correspondent bank 
returned them to its counterpart on the buyers side within two days. I dont consider 
this timescale as unreasonable. Any delays after this point were outside Cynergy 
Bank or its correspondent banks control.
Cynergy Bank accepts it gave misleading information in relation to how long it would 
take for the funds to be returned. It also accepts it didnt respond to Mr Bs emails in 
a timely manner. Its told us the reason for this delay was due to high volumes of 
queries it had received in that period as a result of some recent changes to its 
systems. And this was at a time it was already operating with reduced staffing levels 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. I consider it would have been helpful to Mr B 
if hed been made aware of the situation in the first instance, either through 
information Cynergy Bank included in its auto-acknowledgement emails, or on its 
website or helpline. So, Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr B.
Not getting an answer to the questions he asked in his emails would have clearly 
caused Mr B some distress. And I appreciate he thought Cynergy Banks lack of 
response was intentional; I understand he thought it might have been concerned 
about the payment. But I can see it told him at the outset  when he first called  
what had happened and why the payment couldnt be credited. It also told him the 
funds had been returned. So, I consider Cynergy Bank made Mr B reasonably aware 
of the situation during this call. 
When Mr B phoned Cynergy Bank six days later  the day after hed complained by 
email  it offered to send a tracer for the payment to its correspondent bank. The 
correspondent bank responded within a day and confirmed funds had been returned 
to its counterpart within two days. Before Cynergy Bank could respond to Mr B, hed 
already emailed it to say the buyer still hadnt received the funds. So, it sent a further 
tracer. I completely understand Mr Bs frustrations here, given a big amount was 
involved. I think it would have been good customer service on Cynergy Banks part if 
it had updated Mr B on the initial tracer, even if it had sent another one. I think this 
update would have been appreciated by Mr B. But Im mindful it wouldnt have 
changed how quickly the buyer received the funds. Cynergy Banks error here is the 
delay in responding to his emails, not a delay in returning the funds. The fact it 
offered to send a tracer when Mr B called back shows Cynergy Bank hadnt held on 
to the funds as he had suspected. 
I acknowledge what Mr B has said about how the situation made him look in the eyes 
of the buyer. But Im not persuaded timely updates from Cynergy Bank would have 
changed anything in that respect. I say this because Cynergy Bank would have only 
gone on to advise Mr B a further tracer had been sent. Cynergy Bank would have still 
been reliant on receiving a response from a third party before it could provide Mr B 
with another update. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider it fair to tell Cynergy Bank to compensate Mr B 
for any losses or inconvenience he suffered as a result of the delay in selling his car. 
From what hes said, it seems to me the delay in the buyer receiving his funds back 
is to be blamed here. Ive explained why Cynergy Bank isnt responsible for that. But 
I do acknowledge the lack of timely responses from Cynergy Bank caused him 
distress and inconvenience. I consider £100 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations, I wont be making a further 
award.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Cynergy Bank Limited has already fairly resolved 
this complaint. I direct it to pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman