DRN-1686694
The complaint
Miss S says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op), trading as Britannia Building Society, mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S applied for a mortgage with Co-op in 2003. At the same time, PPI was added, 
protecting her monthly repayments in the event of disability or unemployment. I gather there 
was no charge for the PPI for the first six months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Co-op had mis-sold the PPI. Miss S disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss S case.
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss S says she didnt want the PPI and she was forced to take it on the basis that she 
couldnt have the mortgage without it. But theres nothing in the available evidence to 
support what shes said or that would otherwise indicate she was unduly pressured. 
Ive also seen a copy of the separate PPI application form Miss S signed and which included 
the type of cover and monthly benefit amount required. 
Overall, I think Miss S was aware the PPI was optional and was separate to the mortgage, 
and that she chose to go ahead with it on that basis.
I dont think Co-op recommended the PPI to Miss S. So, it didnt have to check that it was 
suitable for her. But it should still have given her clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI. I dont know if it did that but, having looked at Miss S circumstances, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it. For example:
Miss S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by the main exclusions to, or 
limits on, the cover.
Miss S says she was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy. She also says 
she had family help and money saved and invested that she could have fallen back 
on if she wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that and for up to 
12 months per claim. It offered a guaranteed means of meeting her mortgage 
payments if she couldnt work. And the PPI provided a means of her keeping her 
savings for another use or to cover her other living costs if she wasnt working. With 
all that in mind, and given that the borrowing was secured against her home, I 
believe shed have seen the PPI as providing her with useful additional protection.  
Theres no reason for me to believe Miss S would have considered the premium, at 
around £7 a month, to be unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that she could 
have been cancelled at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
Which means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But Co-op 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Co-op didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Co-ops basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in this 
case.
What the business needs to do
Co-op has to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Co-op should also pay back to Miss S 
any extra interest she paid because of that.
Co-op should pay back to Miss S the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Co-op should also pay Miss S 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman