DRN-2788298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd voided their life and critical illness 
assurance policy and refused Mr Ws claim. 
A third party has helped Mr and Mrs W in bringing their complaint to our service but, for ease 
of reference, Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs W. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs W applied for life and critical illness cover with Zurich. The 
policy was set up over a 12-year term. Mr W was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 
September 2019 and so he made a claim under the policy. 
Zurich thought Mr W had misrepresented his health when he applied for cover. They said 
Mr W ought to have disclosed hed suffered from urinary problems in 2016 and 2017- which 
involved a referral to a urological surgeon, a cystoscopy being carried out and recommended 
ultrasound scans, which Mr W didnt attend. Zurich explained, had this information been 
disclosed, they wouldve waited for the outcome of the investigations (scan) before offering 
terms. And, although these results were normal when they became available, the prostate 
was then being investigated as the cause of the symptoms. So, again, Zurich said they 
wouldve held off from offering cover until the outcome of these investigations were known  
which led to the diagnosis of cancer. Because Zurich said they wouldnt have been able to 
offer Mr W cover they voided the policy, refused the claim and refunded the premiums paid. 
Mr and Mrs W complained about this but Zurichs position didnt change. 
The matter was referred to our service. Mr and Mrs W argued that had Mr W undergone the 
ultrasound scan in 2017 then the results wouldve been normal (as they were in 2018). So, 
this wouldve ended the investigations and cover wouldve been offered. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but he didnt think Zurich had acted 
unfairly. He thought Mr W made a careless qualifying misrepresentation  as did Zurich 
when they considered the claim  by not disclosing the urinary problems. And he explained 
that we couldnt be sure what the outcome of the ultrasound scan wouldve been due to 
Mr Ws non-attendance, which meant Zurich werent able to reach an underwriting decision 
with all the information available at that time. As our investigator was satisfied Zurich 
wouldnt have offered cover had Mr Ws urinary problems been disclosed, he didnt think 
they had to do anything further given theyd already refunded the premiums. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so their complaint was passed to me to decide. I wrote to both 
parties on 2 September 2021 explaining my initial thoughts. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Zurich declined Mr Ws critical illness claim for prostate cancer as they considered he
misrepresented his health when he applied for cover in November 2017. And, 
specifically, the following questions:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this 
application, have you had:
any disease or disorder of the bladder or urinary tract such as recurrent 
infections or protein or blood in the urine?
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in 
the application:
are you aware of any symptoms that you intend to seek medical advice or 
treatment for, or are you waiting for any test results, appointments or 
investigations with your doctor or other medical professional?
In the last 3 months have you had any symptoms of ill health, such as 
unexplained bleeding, weight loss, change of bowel habit, unexplained lump 
or growth, breathing problems or shortness of breath, or a cough thats last 4 
weeks or more?
Mr W answered the above questions no. Zurich however consider that he ought to 
have answered differently as, during 2016 and 2017, he suffered from urinary 
problems. This involved Mr W undergoing a flexible cystoscopy procedure and being 
referred for an ultrasound scan. Mr W didnt however attend the scan.
Zurich said, had they known this information, then they wouldve awaited the 
outcome of the urinary investigations (scan) before offering cover. And although 
these results when they later became available were normal, it led to the 
consideration of prostate cancer being the cause of the symptoms  which again 
wouldve delayed their decision to offer cover. These investigations however 
ultimately led to the cancer diagnosis and Zurich say they wouldnt have offered 
cover at this point.
Because of this misrepresentation, Zurich voided the policy and refunded the policy 
premiums to Mr and Mrs W.
Ive carefully considered this and, having looked at Mr Ws medical history, I think he 
failed to take reasonable care when answering the first question. I therefore agree 
Mr W misrepresented his health when applying for cover and I likewise consider it to 
be careless.
Ive therefore looked at what wouldve happened had Mr W disclosed this medical 
condition. Having done so, and based on Zurichs underwriting criteria in respect of his urinary problems, I think they wouldve most likely offered cover to Mr W. Ill 
explain why.
The underwriting criteria shows that, at the point of application, Zurich wouldve 
wanted to await the results of the tests/investigation. Mr W underwent a flexible 
cystoscopy in May 2017 which showed a normal urethra, non-occlusive prostate and 
his bladder looked normal. He was also advised to undergo an ultrasound scan but 
Mr W didnt attend the appointments. It was however noted that if this was normal he 
would be discharged.
We cant be sure what wouldve come of the ultrasound scan had Mr W attended the
appointment  either at the time or shortly after applying for the policy if told by Zurich 
he was required to do so in order for cover to be accepted. Ive therefore considered 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr Ws oncologist was asked, in his medical opinion, whether Mr W wouldve likely 
been discharged back to his GP with no further investigations to be performed if he 
had followed up on the ultrasound appointment in November/December 2017. The 
oncologist said:
It is difficult to say because it would have depended on the results of the 
ultrasound but also on his symptoms and urine test on his f/up appointment. If 
he was completely asymptomatic with no UTI recurrence all these months 
and a normal U/S and a normal urine test probably he would have been 
discharged after that appointment.
The oncologists opinion is inconclusive as he says the outcome of the ultrasound, 
and other tests etc., wouldve determined whether hed have been discharged or not 
at that time. That said, Mr W sought no further urinary treatment between May 2017 
and August 2018 and he says he was completely asymptomatic during this period. 
His urine test(s) in September 2018 was negative and the ultrasound scan he 
subsequently underwent in September 2019 was normal with nothing of noteto 
account for patients symptoms.
From this, I think its reasonable to assume that the ultrasound scan and test(s) if 
carried out in November/December 2017 wouldve most likely been normal too and 
so Mr W wouldve probably been discharged at that time. And in these 
circumstances, having seen Zurichs underwriting criteria, cover wouldve been 
offered to Mr W.
It therefore seems that, in relation to this misrepresentation, the claim made under 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy shouldnt be declined.
I am however aware that Zurich has also raised additional concerns about other non-
disclosures made by Mr W when applying. I dont intend to cover all of these but 
rather, Ill address those that I think are relevant.
Mr W was asked the following when applying:
Have you ever been advised or treated for alcohol consumption or abuse, or 
attended an alcohol support group, or been told you have any liver damage?
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this 
application, have you had:anxiety, stress, depression, chronic fatigue, obsessive compulsive disorder, 
or other mental illness?
Mr W answered both of these questions no. His medical records however show the 
following:
23-Jul-2015
Medication Propranolol 40mg tablets 1 THREE TIMES A DAY FOR 
ANXIETY 84 table
Problem Anxiety states (First)
History pt has suffered with anxity for many years, has been worse 
since he split with his partner, feels anxious most of the time, has been 
drinking up to 50-60 units of ETOH because of his anxiety as he feels it helps 
it, has had suicidal thoughts, however would never act on them as his 
children are his protective factors, Has been tearful on may occasions after 
feeling high.
Comment given b-blocker for anxiety, will refer to IATP and r/v with me in 
2 weeks
Document Referral to community mental health team
and;
06-Aug-2015
Problem Anxiety states (Review)
History see prev consults propranolol is helping, using on a PRN 
basis, is still continuing to drink ETOH, does not want any help stopping
Comment to continue with b-blocker as helping, awaiting IAPT 
assessment
In light of the above, I think Mr W ought to have known - when he applied for cover  
that hed suffered from anxiety and been offered support in relation to his alcohol 
consumption. And, as I consider the questions asked by Zurich were clear, I think 
Mr W failed to take reasonable care when answering them.
Zurich has provided their underwriting criteria which shows if Mr W had told them 
about his anxiety and the alcohol consumption advice he received then they wouldnt 
have offered cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
Where a misrepresentation has occurred, CIDRA allows the insurer to take certain 
actions depending on how it is classified  either as careless or, deliberate or 
reckless. But in circumstances when an insurer wouldnt have offered cover, as is the 
case here, theyre allowed to void the policy and refuse the claim irrespective of how 
it is classified. The difference between the two classifications is that premiums should 
be refunded when its considered careless, whereas the insurer can retain them if its 
considered deliberate or reckless.
Given Zurich has refunded the premiums to Mr and Mrs W, Im satisfied theyve 
received the most favourable outcome under CIDRA here. I therefore think this is fair 
and so I dont think Zurich has to do anything further.
Zurich didnt add anything further.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and, in short, raised the following points:Theyre disappointed my reasoning came from supplementary information that hadnt 
previously been disclosed to them.
They queried when these additional non-disclosures were identified by Zurich as they 
werent raised directly with them. And that they didnt think this was fair given they 
hadnt had the opportunity to dispute the alleged misrepresentations. 
They questioned why I believe Zurich wouldnt have offered cover when the 
additional non-disclosures were clearly insignificant to be totally disregarded by 
Zurich in their complaint investigation.
I responded (to Mr and Mrs Ws representative) and said:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will naturally be disappointed by my views on their 
complaint. And I've noted your comments in respect of their particular dissatisfaction 
with my reasoning relating to other non-disclosures that Zurich hadn't previously 
referred to when considering the claim (or the complaint). I hope that my response 
sufficiently addresses their concerns on this issue.
Zurich declined the claim as they considered Mr W hadn't disclosed urinary problems 
he'd experienced when applying for cover. Mr W was subsequently diagnosed with 
prostate cancer following subsequent investigations in this respect. And it's not 
uncommon for insurers to focus on what they consider to be the relevant non-
disclosure(s) linked to the illness that is being claimed for. So, while Zurich 
highlighted further concerns about other misrepresentations when the complaint was 
referred to us, when responding to the claim and complaint directly with Mr and [Mrs] 
W they focussed on the urinary problems. They considered this non-disclosure to be 
sufficient reason for voiding the policy and refusing the claim.
I disagreed with Zurich that cover wouldn't have been offered as a result of that non-
disclosure. That said, the insurer did raise other misrepresentation concerns and 
that's why I've considered them here. The fact Zurich didn't refer to these when 
dealing with the claim/complaint directly with Mr and Mrs W doesn't necessarily mean 
they considered them to be insignificant. Instead, as I've explained, Zurich 
considered the urinary problems misrepresentation to be sufficient. It's therefore 
likely - as we often see this with insurers - that Zurich opted to not refer to the other 
alleged misrepresentations for this reason.
I understand Mr and Mrs W are dissatisfied with Zurich's handling of their claim. But, 
while I disagree with Zurich on the urinary problem non-disclosure, I think the other 
non-disclosures mean their to decision to void the policy and refuse the claim was 
fair. And that is why I emailed you to explain my thoughts and give Mr and Mrs W the 
opportunity to respond if they disagreed.
Mr and Mrs W asked for a final decision on their complaint. 
Now both parties have had a chance to respond to my thoughts on this complaint, I can 
proceed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive given careful consideration to their complaint and 
the points theyve raised. I also realise that this must be a difficult time for them in light of 
Mr Ws diagnosis, and I dont underestimate the importance of this matter given the financial implications. But, while I know this isnt the outcome theyll be hoping for, I see no reason to 
depart from my initial thoughts. 
I dont intend to repeat myself in great detail here. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
think Mr W failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions in respect of his 
alcohol consumption and mental health (anxiety). Im also satisfied that Zurich has 
demonstrated they wouldnt have offered cover to Mr W had this information been disclosed 
to them at the point of application. In line with CIDRA, it follows that this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation and I agree with Zurichs classification of it being careless. 
The appropriate remedy in these circumstances, under CIDRA, allows Zurich to void the 
policy, refuse the claim and refund the premiums. I understand Mr and Mrs Ws 
dissatisfaction that my reasons differ to the non-disclosure Zurich relied upon when 
investigating their claim/complaint. Although Ive noted their feelings in this regard, I dont 
consider this led to a materially different outcome to the claim. Ultimately, I consider Zurichs 
decision to be fair. 
I therefore dont think Zurich has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman