DRN-4085848
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society treated him unfairly when providing 
information about the redemption of his mortgage.
What happened
Mr H made a payment to redeem his mortgage on 5 December 2022 but he didnt receive 
any acknowledgement of the payment being received. He made attempts to confirm the 
payment with Nationwide but didnt get an answer. He has also questioned the redemption 
balance and believes he may have overpaid by around £90.
Nationwide said it tried to call Mr H on the 8th, 9th and 12 December in response to an email 
he sent on 7 December. Mr H didnt answer and it sent its final response on 10 January 
2023. Nationwide explained it had tried to contact him by phone in response to his 
questions. It said a redemption statement was issued on 16 December and it had forwarded 
statements for the account to detail how the interest had been calculated. It was sorry Mr H 
was upset, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong with how it had handled the 
redemption.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything 
else. She said the extra £90 that Mr H was concerned about reflected the monthly interest 
on the account and when this was applied to it. Although she didnt dispute that Mr H didnt 
receive the redemption statement in the post, she was satisfied that Nationwide had sent it. 
So it had done what it needed to and it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for post not 
received, providing it sent it to the correct address  as it had done here.
Mr H didnt accept the outcome. He didnt think it was fair that Nationwide didnt need to do 
anything else when he didnt receive the redemption statement and he was left not knowing 
whether the balance had been paid when it should have been communicated to him sooner. 
He also said he still hadnt received the statements that Nationwide said it would send out to 
confirm the interest  so although our investigator had explained this, he wanted further 
explanation. Mr H also spoke about a call he had with Nationwide previously where he says 
he received poor service and this indicates the level of service provided by Nationwide. 
Because of this call and its service before, he said he didnt want to speak with it on the 
phone again.
Our investigator said her opinion didnt change. If Mr H was still unsure about the interest on 
his account and how this was charged, she said he may want to book to speak with an 
adviser from Nationwide to explain this. She said the other phone call he referenced was not 
part of this complaint and took place some months before, so she hadnt listened to this call 
as she didnt think it was relevant. And overall, while she acknowledged Mr H didnt receive 
the redemption statement, she still didnt think this indicated that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr H remained unhappy with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr H will be unhappy with this outcome, but Ill explain why I dont think Nationwide 
needs to do anything else.
When Mr H made his payment to Nationwide and didnt receive any confirmation this had 
been received, it is understandable why he was concerned. When he asked it for help 
through its social media channels, Nationwide directed Mr H to call its customer service line, 
but Mr H chose not to do this after he previously found this an unhelpful option.
Mr H then emailed Nationwide on 7 December, explaining he was unhappy with the referral 
to the customer service helpline and Nationwide made three attempts to speak with Mr H on 
the phone after this. Mr H said hes unhappy that Nationwide called him while at work and it 
is unfortunate that this is the case, but as hed asked it for help and an update on the 
payment of his mortgage and to clarify the amount paid, I dont think it acted unreasonably in 
trying to speak with him on the phone.
The redemption statement was sent out on 16 December and although I dont dispute that 
Mr H says this wasnt received, Im satisfied Nationwide sent this out. And it did so within a 
reasonable time after the payment had been made. The statement was correctly addressed 
and Im persuaded Nationwide did what it needed to here. 
As our investigator said, the difference in the balance on Mr Hs mortgage before he paid the 
redemption is the monthly interest, applied to the mortgage balance. I note he has said he 
hasnt received the statement for the account too and it might be he needs to request this 
again if he would like to see it.
Im sorry Mr H has felt the need to complain and it is clear from the tone of his complaint to 
Nationwide that hes not found its service helpful in the past. But as our investigator has 
said, the previous phone call referenced is not part of this complaint or the service Mr H has 
complained about now and Ive not considered this call and whether it was or was not 
terminated by Nationwide.
Overall, Ive seen that Nationwide tried to contact Mr H when he let them know he was 
worried about the payment hed made being applied to his mortgage. And it sent him a 
redemption statement to confirm the balance was paid soon after this. So Ive not seen 
anything which demonstrates a failing on its part and will not be asking it to do anything else 
on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman