DRN-1119917
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) did not take into consideration his 
mental health when approving his credit card application.
What happened
On 18 September 2017, Marbles approved the online credit card application Mr H had 
applied for, and he was given a credit card limit of £600. 
In November 2017, Mr H was in contact with Marbles as his account was over the agreed 
limit. In early Spring 2018, Mr H and Marbles were in telephone contact with each other 
again, regarding his direct debit payments. Towards the end of Spring, Mr H informed 
Marbles that hed entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA) and once this was 
confirmed, Marbles sold Mr Hs credit card debt to a third party. A month later, Mr H informed 
Marbles that he had mental health issues. 
In June 2019, Mr H raised a complaint with Marbles and stated that they shouldnt have 
approved his credit card application due to his mental health issues, which he felt meant he 
was unable to manage his account.  Marbles did not uphold his complaint and explained that 
they werent informed about any mental health issues Mr H may have had until after his 
credit card account had been sold. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought the complaint to us. He told us that he was 
unhappy that Marbles didnt ask about his medical background and felt his credit card limit 
was too high, based on his credit rating. He also informed us that he didnt volunteer 
information about his medical background to Marbles as he was unwell at the time and didnt 
want it to lead to his application being rejected. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They explained that they couldnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint as Marbles were not aware of his mental health issues until after they had 
sold his account to the third party.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr H has said that he didnt know what he was doing and didnt 
remember taking the credit card out. He doesnt think his account should have been passed 
to a third party and he is of the view that Marbles did not carry out a sufficient credit check, 
as he had more than four defaults on his credit file at the time. This has therefore been 
passed to me for a final decision.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has asked us if Marbles carried out the right credit checks as his credit rating was very 
poor. He has also commented that the application form he completed didnt ask about his 
medical background. His credit file shows that he had three defaults at the time of his application, the most recent being almost two years before his application. Marbles has also 
confirmed that he met their criteria for a credit card, with a limit of £600 at the time of his 
application. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs application data, I can see that Mr H is right in saying the application 
form did not ask him about his medical background. That said, it does not follow that I would 
expect this to be asked as part of the application process. After considering Mr Hs 
application and credit file, Marbles decided the risk of lending to Mr H was within their 
tolerance and so approved his credit card. 
Mr Hs application data also shows that the credit card limit requested was £600. If Mr H felt 
this amount was too high, he could have requested a smaller amount when he made the 
application. It is also possible for individuals to request a reduced credit card limit once an 
application has been approved. This request was not made in this instance.  
All things considered, I would say it was reasonable for Marbles to approve Mr Hs 
application and provide a credit card with a limit of £600.  
Having reviewed Marbles copy of Mr Hs account notes, I can see he was in contact with 
them on several occasions prior to him entering into an IVA. Mr H has told us that he didnt 
remember taking out the credit card. However, he was in contact with Marbles on a number 
of occasions and at no point did he mention this to them. 
Further, when Mr H brought the complaint to us, he explained that he intentionally withheld 
information pertaining to his mental health from Marbles. He has said this was because he 
was concerned that it would have resulted in a rejected application. Since our investigator 
issued their view and explained they wouldnt be upholding the complaint, Mr H has now 
informed us that he didnt know what he was doing when he took out the credit card. 
This differs from his original explanation and Ive thought about whats most likely, based on 
all of the evidence. Bearing in mind Mr Hs account of what happened only changed after our 
investigator issued their view, I think his initial account is most likely to be what happened.  
I am therefore of the view that Marbles were not informed of how Mr Hs mental health was 
impacting him until he notified them in the Summer of 2018.  As a result, it would be unfair to 
say Marbles should have acted on information they were not in possession of until after the 
account had already been passed to a third party. 
Mr H has told us that he intentionally withheld information that he felt would have resulted in 
his application being rejected. Withholding information in order to secure credit isnt ever 
advisable and is something that could result in an agreement being terminated, which could 
have an adverse effect on an individuals credit file. In this particular case, the information 
Mr H withheld meant Marbles werent in a position to offer him any support.  It also suggests 
that he had a better understanding regarding his application than his later account indicates. 
Mr H informed Marbles that he had entered into an IVA. In line with their policy they then 
passed the account to a third party, which Mr H thinks is unfair. Im not persuaded it was 
unfair for Marbles to take such action. Entering into a formal debt arrangement will usually 
be an event of default on a credit agreement and can have the effect of terminating the 
agreement. 
In circumstances where Mr H is saying that he cant afford the contractual payments, 
Marbles ending his ability to get further into debt seems sensible. Mr Hs agreement with 
Marbles entitles it to pass on its rights and obligations if it wants to do so. And Marbles action didnt put Mr H at a disadvantage; it simply means his IVA supervisor liaises with the 
third-party company, rather than with Marbles.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome, but I must be fair to both parties in 
my consideration. And in these particular set of circumstances, that means I need to 
consider the information Marbles were in possession of at the relevant time.  I am therefore 
satisfied that Marbles had carried out suitable checks to grant Mr H his credit card, with a 
limit of £600. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman