DRN-3231291
The complaint
Mr C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent him money on a 
high interest loan which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr C with a loan of £1,000 on 8 May 2019, repayable over 24 
months at the rate of about £72 a month. Mr C paid the instalments on the loan until 
March 2020. He then stopped paying any further instalments. The loan was sold on to 
another company in November 2020.
Mr C complained to 118 118 Money that the loan was unaffordable to him. He said that his 
finances and personal situation were not sufficiently checked to make sure hed be in a 
position to pay back the loan and that 118 118 Money didnt check his mental health, 
income, proof of identity and his financial history.
118 118 Money said it checked his application form, listing his income and outgoings. It also 
carried out a credit report. It also independently verified his income and assessed that the 
loan was affordable.
Mr C has provided bank statements from around the time of the loan, and an updated credit 
report.
Our adjudicator reviewed the matter and said that 118 118 Money had acted fairly, and there 
was nothing in the information it obtained to indicate the money shouldnt have been lent to 
Mr C.
Mr C disagreed. He said his credit score was very poor and low - 213/700. He had a long 
term debt of almost a thousand pounds, the monthly gross income of £1,505 before tax and 
the outgoings would have left him with little money. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mr C declared his monthly credit commitments, on his application form to be around £45 a 
month. Considering the credit report, I think the right figure would have been about £100.  
He had a mail order debt and two loans. He did have a default registered in respect of two 
utility accounts. But apart from a credit card with a balance of £4 on it, he didnt appear to 
have any other credit commitments.
Mr C now says the figure for his income was a gross figure, of £1,505 per month before tax. 
It was up to him to provide accurate details on his population, as not everything will show up 
in a credit report. I can see he had other credit cards on his up to date credit report, but I 
dont know when he took those out. Further, Mr Cs bank statements dont show a monthly 
income, though they do show transfers from another account in his name. Nevertheless, if I 
were to assess Mr Cs ability to afford the loan allowing for tax to be paid on his declared 
income, he still appeared to have a disposable income of over £690 a month. That takes into 
account his monthly credit commitments and all his other declared expenses.
I appreciate what he says about his credit score, that doesnt appear on the report carried 
out by 118 118 Money. However the rules dont prescribe what credit score might or might 
not be appropriate to lend on. The business specialises in providing loans to people with 
poor credit records. I think 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks, and those checks didnt in my view 
disclose anything which should have alerted it to carry out further checks.
Lastly on Mr Cs point about his mental health, all businesses are required to take account of 
issues such as mental health which might mean a consumer is vulnerable. But as far as I 
can see he didnt raise any particular issues about his mental health at the time of applying 
for the loan, which 118 118 Money should have taken account of. I do understand that being 
unable to pay a loan causes stress and anxiety, but in my view at the time of issuing the loan 
118 118 Money made a fair lending decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman