DRN-3203032
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc caused him stress and inconvenience, due to its 
system outage.
What happened
Mr B had travelled about 230 miles to purchase a caravan. He was intending to transfer the 
money from his Santander bank account via his banking app, to the vendors Santander 
bank account. However, Santander had a system outage, which meant Mr B couldnt 
transfer the funds via the app or withdraw the cash from a nearby branch.
Mr B says he spent about four hours trying to transfer the funds and withdraw the cash. After 
this time a solution was found. Mr B was able to access funds from two other accounts he 
held with other banking providers; and he transferred those funds into an account held by 
the vendors friend (who didnt bank with Santander). 
Mr B has explained that the ordeal was very stressful and much of it was spent sat in his car 
trying to get the app to work, rather than returning home without the caravan. He says that 
the issue delayed his return home by five hours, and he had to travel back at night.
Santander compensated Mr B £100. Mr B didnt consider this amount to be sufficient, so he 
brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators thought £100 compensation 
was fair. Because Mr B disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that, having travelled so far, the experience was very stressful for Mr B. I also 
acknowledge the matter caused a fair amount of inconvenience and cost him his personal 
time. But equally, Mr B was able to find a solution. He didnt miss out on purchasing the 
caravan and it wasnt a wasted trip. 
Having carefully considered Mr Bs submissions, overall, I consider £100 compensation to 
be a fair acknowledgement of the impact on him. Im not persuaded that I would have 
awarded significantly more, had Santander not made this offer. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman