DRN-3782341
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as First Direct (First Direct) have 
altered her bank statements and deprived her of £8,151.76. 
What happened
Mrs M reviewed her bank account statements for the years 2017 to 2018, alongside a period 
in 2019. Mrs M says that after analysing the statements and totalling up all of her incoming 
and outgoing funds, she has identified that £8,151.76 is missing from her account for the 
period of 2017 to 2018. Mrs M has provided her own calculations to this service in support of 
this conclusion. 
Mrs M says First Direct have somehow altered her account statements, in order to deprive 
her of these funds. Mrs M wants First Direct to carry out forensic analysis of the activity on 
her account in order to identify the problem and give her the money back.  
Mrs M presented her calculations to First Direct, but it declined to pay her £8,151.76. It said 
there was no money missing from her account and that her account statements were an 
accurate reflection of the activity that had taken place on her account during the specified 
period. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt for this service to complete 
an audit of the activity on Mrs Ms account  this would be for an accountant to do. And she 
hadnt seen any persuasive evidence that Mrs Ms statements had been altered by First 
Direct either, so she didnt recommend it take any further action. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and I wont be asking 
First Direct to take any further action. Ill explain why in more detail below. 
Ive looked carefully at the submissions provided by both Mrs M and First Direct. However, I 
am not persuaded that First Direct has altered Mrs Ms account statements in order to 
deprive her of £8,151.76. 
I realise Mrs M has taken a lot of time and effort to go through her account statements to try 
to show us that the amount is missing but it is not for this service to audit the activity on Mrs 
Ms account in order to identify if there has been an error on First Directs part. It simply isnt 
possible for me to go through the sheer number of balances and transactions on Mrs Ms 
account from 2017 onwards. 
If Mrs M believes that professional and forensic analysis of the transactions on her account 
statements is warranted, she will need to employ a professional auditing service or 
accountant  this is not the role of this service. 
Overall, I havent been persuaded that there has been any manipulation on behalf of First 
Direct and Im satisfied that had over £8,000 suddenly gone missing from Mrs Ms account in 
2018, she wouldve noticed it much sooner than she did. So, I wont be asking First Direct to 
take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman