DRN-3654815
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans that she couldnt afford to 
repay because it failed to carry out proportionate checks. 
In addition, Mrs W also says that Morses encouraged her to take out further credit, didnt 
provide any assistance when she told it about her financial difficulties, and she was 
penalised for making late payments. 
What happened
Mrs W was advanced three home collected loans between May 2021 and 
November 2021. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £250.00 17/05/2021 outstanding 35 £12.50
2 £300.00 16/08/2021 outstanding 35 £15.00
3 £300.00 02/11/2021 outstanding 35 £15.00
Mrs W had some problems repaying these loans, and she provided the Financial 
Ombudsman with a copy of a letter that shows in August 2022 Morses assigned the rights to 
the loans (and outstanding balances) to a third-party collection agency. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 - 3 were 
running at the same time Mrs Ws weekly commitment to Morses was £42.50. 
Following Mrs Ws complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her 
complaint. Mrs W didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and she partly upheld it and she didnt think any of 
the loans shouldve been granted. She explained, that Morses carried out a credit search 
before loan 1, and the results ought to have alerted it to the fact Mrs W was having 
difficulties  after all, it was aware that Mrs W had 10 defaults recorded on her credit file. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator asked Morses to refunded interest fees and 
charges and just collect the capital balance which was lent. 
She didnt uphold any other parts of Mrs Ws complaint. The adjudicator explained, that while 
the agent had offered further loans to Mrs W, she could see from the messages that the 
agent did give Mrs W the option as to whether she wanted to proceed with them (or not).  
The system notes show that after Morses was told about Mrs Ws financial situation it put her 
on a reduced and temporary plan. In the adjudicators view, she thought this was Morses 
treating Mrs W fairly. 
In respect of Mrs Ws final complaint point, the adjudicator couldnt see any evidence that 
Mrs W had been penalised for late payments, for example there are no later fees added to 
this type of credit and the agent seemed to offer Mrs W the option to make up payments the 
following week if and when a payment were missed. 
Mrs W appeared to accept the findings the adjudicator reached, although she did have 
questions about whether it was right for Morses to have passed the outstanding balances to 
a third-party collection agency while her complaint was being investigated. The adjudicator 
confirmed at this point, that it wasnt unusual for accounts to be sold. 
Morses agreed with the recommendation that the adjudicator made. It explained that 
currently Mrs Ws outstanding balance was £850 but only £352.17 of it was capital. It 
explained that the interest Mrs W had paid was around £150 (after 8% simple interest was 
added (and tax deducted)). Morses explained, that this would then be used to offset 
Mrs Ws capital balance of £352.17 leaving a total amount left to pay of £201.34.
This offer was then put to Mrs W, who didnt accept it. Across, a number of emails, she 
made a number of points including:
Mrs W was expecting a refund to be paid to her. 
She cant afford to pay any outstanding balance. 
A web link was provided to an online article about the profit warnings issued by 
Morses. 
This has caused her considerable stress. 
The adjudicator went back to Mrs W to explain that a refund would only be due if Mrs W had 
repaid more than the capital sum, she had borrowed so she thought the offer by Morses was 
reasonable. She didnt think her view of the complaint needed to be changed.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ws 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be moredifficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
It seems to me that both Mrs W and Morses accept these loans shouldnt have been 
provided. Indeed, Morses has made an offer to settle the complaint. So, I dont think there is 
any ongoing disagreement about whether these loans shouldve been lent. 
But, in summary and for completeness, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said, 
considering the results of the credit checks Morses carried out showed significant adverse 
information including 10 accounts being marked as being in default. Knowing that, I think 
there was a real risk that Mrs W wouldnt be in a position to sustainably make her loan 
repayments.  
Ive also considered the other aspects of Mrs Ws complaint, and I again, I agree with the 
conclusions that the adjudicator reached. The notes do show, that after Mrs W approached 
Morses for help, it offered a repayment plan and the agent also confirmed this would affect 
Mrs Ws credit file. The screenshots of the text messages show that Mrs W accepted this 
and agreed with the plan. So, I dont think there is anything else Morses needs to do in order 
to put things right about any other aspect of the complaint that were considered and dealt 
with by the adjudicator. 
Again, I can understand why she is unhappy that Morses passed the loan to a third-party 
collection agency while her complaint was being investigated. However, it isnt unusual, and 
Morses can take action it deems is needed. In short, the Financial Ombudsmans 
involvement isnt an automatic block to it carrying out further collection activity, although I 
would say is some lenders may not carry out any activity while loans are being investigated. 
Is the compensation fair?
Instead, this decision will focus on the redress and whether what Morses has agreed to pay 
is fair and reasonable. I understand, given Mrs Ws comments following the adjudicators 
assessment that she cant repay the balance. In effect, I take it she wants the outstanding 
balance written off. To start with, when a complaint is upheld  as is the case here, the 
Financial Ombudsman, as far as possible aims to put a consumer back into the position they 
wouldve been in had the loans not been granted. But in cases of unaffordable lending that 
isnt always possible because a consumer has had money, and in some way benefited from 
it. So, it isnt always as simple as asking for the funds to be returned to Morses because they 
have been used.  
Therefore, I have to consider what is fair and reasonable. Overall, I think its fair that 
Mrs W shouldnt need to repay any more than the capital sum she has borrowed. So Morses 
shouldnt have charged her any interest, fees and charges on these loans. In effect, the 
loans granted to Mrs W should become interest free lending. Therefore, in this case, Mrs W 
needs to repay Morses no more than £850. 
So if the loans have been taken out and fully repaid, it is more straightforward to 
compensation someone, because the Financial Ombudsman is able to direct a lender to 
refund the interest, fees and charges which have been paid and then to add 8% simple 
interest to those sums. Whatever that sum is, it is paid directly to the consumer. 
However, if loans havent been repaid (or there is an outstanding balance), the starting point 
is to remove from the balance any interest which has been added but not yet repaid  
because it doesnt need to be repaid. 
Once this is done, then wed expect any payments made Mrs W to go towards the capital 
sums that were lent. Meaning Morses cant use the payments Mrs W has made to put it 
towards interest or fees that it may have charged. 
If and when on any loan, Mrs W had paid enough to repay the capital amount borrowed than 
in my view it is entirely reasonable for Morses to use any refund (along with 8% simple 
interest) to offset any other balance which remains due. 
In this case, looking at the statement of account, Mrs W hasnt paid enough to Morses to 
repay the capital sums she borrowed. As this is the case, there wouldnt be anything due to 
her. But, as I can see from Morses calculations her outstanding balance could be 
significantly reduced  which is what I would expect to happen. 
I appreciate Mrs W says she cant afford to repay the new outstanding balance, but no 
further information has been provided about her circumstances, which may be relevant to 
any consideration about what happens with the loan balance. 
In addition, the redress Morses has offered to carry out is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and it doesnt have to pay any more beyond what it has already 
offered to do. The exact amount of refund may change slightly, because there is an element 
of 8% simple interest in the calculation and this changes on a daily basis.  
However, as an outstanding balance remains, either Morses or the third party will have to 
treat Mrs W fairly and with forbearance  this is especially so as it is now aware Mrs W says 
she cant afford to repay the loans. There are a number of options available to either party in 
order to assist Mrs W to repay what is owed, for example a payment plan. 
It is of course possible that if Mrs W feels she has reasons for the balance to be written off 
than this could be something for either Morses or the third party to consider  but to be clear, 
I am not recommending this as a way of resolving the complaint because in my view the 
redress Morses has offered to pay is fair and reasonable.  I appreciate Mrs W has provided a link to a news article about profit warnings from Morses. 
But Morses profit warning, in this case, doesnt have any bearing on whether the redress it 
has offered is fair and reasonable, considering the amounts that were lent and how much 
Mrs W has already repaid it. 
It is worth saying that Morses hasnt indicated what will happen with the balance, if the 
decision is accepted. I dont know whether Morses may buy the debts back and then carry 
out the redress and then work with Mrs W to repay what is owed. 
Or, whether Morses will liaise with the third party to make sure it only collects the correct 
outstanding balance. I dont have an answer to this, and I dont need one in order to reach a 
fair outcome because it is fair for Morses to do either option.  
Ive also thought about what Mrs W says about this being a stressful time for her, but Ive not 
seen enough to make me think that in this case, Morses to needs to pay any further 
compensation. 
I understand that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, but I would remind 
her that an outstanding balance still remains due and she may want to discuss her financial 
situation with either Morses or the third party in order to find an agreeable way forward. 
Finally, I would, again remind Morses of its obligation to treat Mrs W fairly and with 
forbearance when discussing a way forward. There are options open to it such as setting up 
a repayment plan and / or it could (if it wishes) write off the balance. But that would be a 
separate matter for Morses to consider and is not something, that in this case, I am 
recommending happen. 
Putting things right
Ive outlined below what Morses should to put things right, and what it has already agreed to 
do in order to put things right for Mrs W. 
Morses shouldnt have provided any of the loans. If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it 
should buy it back if Morses is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Morses is 
not able to buy the debts back then Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs W 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs W. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs W. E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in 
relation to all of these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
Mrs W has said that she will struggle the repay the balance but Id remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Mrs W fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs W as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman