DRN-3549601
Complaint
Mr B says Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him. 
He says that the loans were unaffordable for him and so he should have been provided with 
them in the first place.
Background
This complaint is about ten loans that L2G provided to Mr B from May 2016 onwards. Mr Bs 
last loan was provided in October 2019. The amount he was lent ranged from £250 to 
£1,000.00. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought he shouldnt have been 
provided with loans 5 to 9.  Mr B didnt disagree but L2G didnt respond to our adjudicators 
assessment and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and industry codes of practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that L2G should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of L2Gs lending history with Mr B, I think that L2G should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because by this stage Mr B had an established borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them, such as loans 5, 6 and 8 
were even provided on the same day as previous ones were settled. This was indicative of Mr B 
borrowing further to cover the hole that repaying previous loans was leaving in his finances.  
L2G continued lending to Mr B even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr B was only likely to be able to repay what he 
was being lent by borrowing further. And this is in itself considered unsustainable according to 
the rules set out by the regulator. 
I dont think that the monthly repayments being less than a certain percentage of Mr Bs income 
or the fact that he repaid the loans changes this or means that it as fair and reasonable for L2G 
to have provided them in the first place. As this is the case, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint 
about loans 5 to 9.
Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that L2G shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and L2G should put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 9;
paying interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded about loans 5 to 9 
on Mr Bs credit file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mr Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
pay Mr B compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman