DRN-1473619
 
complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1993. It seems likely that he was sold PPI at the 
same time. 
The PPI wouldve helped cover the repayments on his credit card for up to 12 months at a 
time if he couldnt work. It also provided some life cover. 
Mr K has mentioned several complaint points, although his main concern appears to be that 
he doesnt believe he gave his consent for the PPI to be added and didnt know he had a 
choice about it. He says he didnt need it. I have considered all Mr Ks complaints about the 
sale.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not certain when the PPI was sold. Lloyds only has records dating back to 2000. But I 
think its most likely that the PPI was sold at the same time the credit card was taken out. I 
dont have any evidence to suggest otherwise and this is the most usual time for PPI to be 
sold. 
Mr K says that he cant remember taking the PPI. This isnt surprising given over 26 years 
have passed since the sale. Lloyds say that however the credit card was sold, Mr K wouldve 
had a clear choice about whether to take the PPI. Lloyds has provided sample copies of the 
application forms that were in use at the time, and I can see from these that a clear choice 
was offered.
The PPI would also have appeared each month on Mr Ks credit card statement. If he hadnt 
agreed to buy it, I think he wouldve queried it when he saw it. 
On the limited information I have available to me I cant safely say that the PPI was added 
without Mr Ks knowledge or consent.  Although Lloyds doesnt know for sure how the PPI was sold, it has accepted that it would 
have personally recommended the PPI to Mr K. This places a greater responsibility on 
Lloyds to take steps to make sure it was right for Mr K, so I think this is a fair way to 
approach the issue. Looking at Mr Ks circumstances at the time of sale I think any 
recommendation was suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr K was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any terms which might have 
made it more difficult for Mr K to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr K had a contractual entitlement to enhanced sick pay. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would have 
lasted;
Mr K would have been entitled to redundancy pay, but the policy would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for up to 12 months at a time, leaving any 
redundancy pay to cover other uninsured expenses;
Mr K says he had some savings, although given the time since the sale its not 
possible to tell how much. Again, the policy would have paid out regardless of Mr Ks 
savings, leaving those savings to cover other uninsured essential outgoings;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible, because it could be cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr K couldnt afford the PPI.
 
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr K all the information it shouldve done. But I dont think 
more, or better, information wouldve made Mr K act differently and not buy the policy, 
because I think it was suitable for him as Ive described above. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr K lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman