DRN-3954239
The complaint
Mr K complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and wouldnt reinstate it.
All references to Watford include its agents.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr K renewed his motor insurance policy with Watford. During the call Mr K 
was asked if there had been any changes to his circumstances from when he initially took 
out the policy in June 2020. Mr K confirmed there had been no changes to the details 
provided in the renewal documents.
In February 2022 Mr K was involved in an accident and he called Watford to make a claim. 
During the process of making the claim Mr K gave Watford the details of his employment  
however these didnt match what hed said when renewing the insurance policy. Mr K told 
Watford his employment had changed in February 2021, some four months prior to the 
renewal. Watford tried to amend the details but werent able to do so.
Watford confirmed it wasnt able to provide cover for his new occupation and employer as 
this wasnt acceptable within its underwriting criteria. So Watford initially refused to indemnify 
Mr K for the claim and proceeded to cancel the policy due to non-disclosure of his current 
occupation.
Mr K didnt think it was fair, so he made a complaint. He said he was still working in a similar 
job role although for a different employer and industry sector. He also said the renewal 
documentation didnt highlight his occupation and he wasnt initially told about needing to 
notify it of any job change. So he didnt agree that hed intentionally failed to disclose the 
information.
Watford didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it wouldnt have insured Mr K if it had known 
his employer and the industry sector he was employed in. Watford said it was for Mr K to 
ensure the details were correct at renewal and had it been provided the correct information 
at the renewal it would have declined to provide cover. Mr K didnt agree and asked this 
service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint to be upheld. He said that although Mr K 
felt he was still carrying out similar duties in his new role  there were different risk factors 
that Watford needed to consider. He thought that Watford had acted in-line with its terms 
and conditions, and he was satisfied that it wouldnt have provided the cover if theyd been 
aware of the change in employment.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, the case was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 January 2023 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out or renewing a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed his policy. It said this because Mr K failed to provide his new occupation and 
employment industry sector.
Ive looked at the information provided to Mr K in the policy documents, at renewal and 
listened to the call he had with Watford to renew his policy. 
The renewal documentation Mr K was sent set out in the section titled, Your Responsibility 
section in bold:
 It is important you check your Statement of Facts/Proposal Form to ensure all 
your details are correct.
Failure to disclose correct and accurate information to the best of your knowledge 
and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, 
your policy being cancelled or made null and void and treated as if it never existed.
In the Proposal Form at section 5A, it set out:
Full time occupation: Telesales Person
Full time Business: Telesales
Also section 18 of the policy documents say:
Changes which may affect Your cover
The Terms of Your Policy and premium are based on the information You have given 
us. If any of this information changes You must notify Us by calling Your broker. 
Below are some examples of what You should tell us. Please note these lists are not 
exhaustive and You should contact Your Broker if You are unsure about whether You 
need to inform Us of a change. Any changes to Your Policy will be subject to Our 
agreement and may not be acceptable, therefore please contact Your Broker for 
guidance on changes You wish to make. If a change to Your Policy is acceptable it 
may result in revised Terms and/or a change in the premium. Any changes to Your 
Policy may also be subject to administration fee charged by Your Broker. We reserve the right to request further documentation following a change made to Your Policy, 
such as proof of ownership and/or confirmation of the registered keeper.
You must tell Us immediately if:
 
 You or anyone covered by this Policy ceasing or changing jobs, or starting a
new job, including any part-time work; or
Im satisfied the documentation made it clear Mr K needed to ensure he was providing the 
correct and up to date information at renewal. And he should have reasonably been aware 
he needed to tell Watford about the change in his occupation and industry sector when 
renewing his policy.
Having listened to the call with Watford, Mr K was asked if hed received the renewal 
documentation and he confirmed he had. He was then asked to confirm if all the information 
from his current policy was still correct  he confirmed it was. But this was incorrect because 
he should have let Watford know hed changed jobs.
Watford has provided evidence which shows if Mr K had answered the question correctly 
and provided the updated information, it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im 
satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford have told us it would consider this to be a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation, 
Ive thought about this, but I dont agree. I dont think Mr Ks misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, but I do think it was careless. I say this because Mr Ks new role still 
involved similar duties to what he was doing in his previous role but clearly the industry 
sector was different, and I would have expected a reasonable consumer to notify the insurer 
of this when asked. So Ive looked at the actions Watford can take in accordance with 
CIDRA.
As Watford has shown it wouldnt have offered cover at all, it is able to avoid his policy and 
not cover any claims, but it does need to return the premium to him. Watford told us it 
decided to settle the claim, allow the no claims bonus, and has cancelled the policy from the 
date the claim was closed on 9 March 2022. It says it refunded the premiums for the 
remaining period that it cancelled. So overall, I think its not acted unreasonably in cancelling 
the policy and refunding the remaining premiums.
I appreciate this may not be the answer Mr K was hoping for, but Im unable to say Watford 
has treated Mr K unfairly in the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr K didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Watford responded but didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information I havent already considered, I see no 
reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. I understand this isnt the answer Mr K was hoping for, but Im satisfied Watford hasnt treated Mr K unfairly in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman