DRN-3948605
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service provided by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) under his home appliance protection policy.
For the avoidance of doubt D&G includes its suppliers, representatives and agents in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to D&G about his freezer in July 2022 under the above policy. D&G sent 
an engineer who couldnt get the relevant part to repair it, so D&G offered Mr S a 
replacement freezer. Mr S experienced difficulties in the process of obtaining the new 
freezer. It was delivered at the end of August 2022 however it was damaged. Mr S contacted 
D&G as well as the supplier but the freezer wasnt collected. Mr S was unhappy about the 
service provided by D&G as he had to continually chase the matter. Mr S then decided that 
he wished to receive a cash settlement rather than a replacement as well as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
D&G considered that it had responded appropriately to Mr Ss complaint. It said that a cash 
settlement wouldnt be in line with its policys terms which referred to replacements. Mr S 
remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and referred the matter to our service. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and concluded that D&G had acted in line 
with the policy terms. In summary, the investigator thought that D&G had acted fairly and 
reasonably by offering £20 compensation for certain service issues and for the time Mr S 
spent on the phone with D&G. He also thought that any issues with delivery were a matter 
for the supplier and any issues with the replacement were a matter for the warranty.
Mr S remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to reach a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether D&G applied the policy terms, and responded 
to various service issues, in a fair and reasonable manner. I consider that it has done so in 
most respects. Ill explain why.
Mr S explained his complaint in detail and said that both he and his wife suffered from 
serious health issues, so couldnt deal with additional stress. Mr S asked D&G to deliver his 
replacement freezer to his daughter's address due to these health issues. The freezer was 
delivered, but the side of the freezers vents had been damaged. Mr S said that it had been 
delivered on a Sunday. The following day was a bank holiday and so he was away with his 
family. He didnt open the freezer's packaging until the following day after work. He reported 
the damage the next day. Mr S considered that hed reported the matter within 48 hours, as 
a bank holiday wouldnt have counted.
After Mr S reported the damage to D&G, it strongly insisted that he needed to contact the 
supplier with the uplift number which he said that D&G hadnt supplied. In any event he 
didn't think that he should have been asked to contact the supplier as his policy was with 
D&G and that this was an internal issue for D&G. Mr S said that in the last call he made to 
D&G in early September, he spoke to a representative to find out when the supplier would 
be collecting the damaged freezer. He said he had to hold the line for almost an hour. The 
representative eventually connected the call to the supplier who informed him that as they 
didn't get the uplift number on time, the deadline for collecting the damaged freezer had 
ended and it couldnt assist any further. Mr S said he remained without the freezer which he 
needed. He said he couldnt buy another one as the damaged freezer occupied the space, 
although he also stated that the freezer was lying in his daughters garage. In his complaint 
to D&G he said; - I am not going to contact the supplier, as you was the one, who have 
arranged the delivery and it is the D&G's duty to arrange the collection of the damaged 
unwanted freezer from our delivery address. 
Mr S also said hed received an extremely poor customer experience and considered the 
service to be unprofessional and shambolic. He said hed made multiple calls and produced 
evidence of the various call-handlers with whom hed spoken. He said that D&G said it had 
produced the relevant uplift number for the supplier to progress the matter, however the 
supplier said they hadnt received it. He said he sent multiple emails to D&G and the supplier 
but didnt get any response. Mr S said that hed lost faith in D&G and had cancelled all his 
insurance policies with it. He said that the suppliers representative had also been rude, 
authoritarian and aggressive towards him and humiliated me and intimidated me. 
Mr S wanted a cash settlement and no longer wanted any appliance from D&Gs supplier. 
He firstly considered that D&G should pay him £5,000, and later £30,000 in compensation 
for the damages, unprofessional services and inconveniences. He also referred to storage 
charges of £30 a day for the damaged freezer. He said that his treatment had led to a 
deterioration of his health and additional stress but thought that D&G didnt care about his 
health. He rejected the £20 compensation offered by D&G. 
I turn now to what D&G has said about the matter. It confirmed that a replacement freezer 
had been supplied to Mr S as his original appliance had been written off. Mr S had taken 
delivery of the replacement freezer however he then notified the supplier that the freezer 
was damaged, and initially asked for an uplift and for a replacement to be delivered. D&G 
said that Mr S had raised the question of damage outside the suppliers 48-hour deadline 
and so the uplift couldnt be completed.
As to the request by Mr S for a cash settlement, it said that the terms and conditions of the 
policy stated that the customer would receive a replacement appliance of the same or similar 
specification. Any issues relating to installation and delivery of the new appliance would 
need to be directed to the supplier. Any mechanical issues would be dealt with under the 
warranty. D&G stated that although the suppliers refused to collect the appliance, they did 
advise that they would visit and assess the freezer so they could put the matter right. It said 
that On that basis it is clear the manufacturer, which is also [the supplier], had took 
responsibility for the issue under the initial warranty, external to Domestic & General.
As to the service complaint about change of delivery address, D&G said that its system 
showed that the address had been altered. It confirmed that its standard business policy was 
that the customer had to have the appliance delivered to the policy address. It said; Usually 
this is not changed under any circumstances as it is the customers responsibility to either be 
present at the property or have somebody.to take delivery of the appliance. On this 
occasion it said that D&Gs representative incorrectly advised the customer it could change 
the address, which then did not change on the suppliers side. It said that it had apologised for any distress and inconvenience the process may have caused and offered £20 in 
compensation to Mr S due the misleading information given, and the time Mr S had to 
spend on the phone. It felt that this was fair given the scale of the situation.
D&G said that Mr S didnt report any damage to the supplier until three days after delivery. It 
noted that the suppliers stated they could not exchange the item as damage had been 
reported outside the 48-hour window, so it said it was unable to authorise a cash settlement. 
It was also suggested that as the freezer hadnt been delivered to the policy address, it 
wasnt possible to determine when and how damage has occurred. It accepted that the 
return window could differ between suppliers. D&G said it couldnt influence this as suppliers 
were separate businesses with their own procedures. 
D&G said that it did enquire about an uplift for the customer as a gesture of goodwill and it 
said that its notes showed that it attempted to liaise with the supplier to see what they could 
do for the customer. However, the supplier said this could not be done. It felt it had helped 
the customer as much as it could in this case. D&G stated in its final response letter I am 
sorry to advise [the suppliers] have declined your uplift request because the damage was not 
reported within 48 hours of your delivery. Therefore, Domestic and General are unable to 
authorise a cash settlement for an independent purchase. [The suppliers] have advised they 
are happy to arrange an engineer visit with the view to repair the Freezer you have 
received.
In summary, D&G took the view that if the customer had experienced any issues from a 
manufacturing standpoint where parts are needed, this would need to be taken up with [the 
supplier] as the supplier/manufacturer of the appliance under the initial warranty. It said that 
the supplier had taken responsibility by expressing willingness to assess whether the freezer 
was repairable. D&G considered that this matter was now outside of its control and 
responsibility. Finally, D&G also noted that the issue had been reported as cosmetic and 
considered that there was no issue with the working of the freezer and that there was 
therefore no loss of use.
The starting point for my consideration of this case is the policy itself and associated policy 
documents. When the policy commenced in 2022, the covering letter set out the key points 
of cover. It stated Remember, your policy also covers you for accidental damage, and if 
were unable to fix your freezer then well replace it for you. Heres a quick reminder of your 
policy with us: - 
-Unlimited repairs with no surprise costs to fix, 
-A replacement if it cant be fixed, just pay the cost of installation,
-Repairs by expert engineers...Our call centres are open 365 days a year, so if you need us, 
were here and happy to help.
Under the heading What this policy covers it stated the following: -
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee).
Both during and after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, if 
your product suffers accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in good working 
order), we will (at our option) authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a 
replacement product.
Under the heading Exclusions, it stated the following: - 
We shall not be liable for...cosmetic damage such as damage to paintwork, dents or 
scratches;I will commence by stating that D&G as the insurer holds overall responsibility for the claims 
journey under its home appliance protection policy. Mr S paid a monthly sum for cover which 
included cover for accidental damage. The covering letter for the policy made it clear that if 
D&G were unable to fix the freezer then it would replace it. Its important however to carefully 
consider that wording of the policy itself which sets out the detail of the agreement. The 
wording of the policy makes it clear that D&Gs obligations in relation to accidental damage 
apply regardless of the existence of a warranty. In the circumstances, I dont consider that 
the suppliers requirement for damage to be reported within 48-hours, to be a relevant to the 
policy claim.
Nevertheless, I consider that it was fair and reasonable for D&G to have declined the claim 
under the policy. The central issue to determine was whether the accidental damage 
reported by Mr S meant that the freezer was no longer in good working order as described 
in the terms and conditions above and D&G thought that the damage was cosmetic 
damage. Mr S described the damage as damage on the side of the vents. Ive looked 
carefully at the photographs supplied by Mr S and the vent damage appears to consist of 
denting and a possible small crack. Theres no available expert report to confirm whether the 
damage meant that the freezer was no longer in good working order. 
I appreciate that minor damage can cause upset and disappointment for the consumer. 
However, the question for me to determine is whether the policy required a further 
replacement to be provided in such circumstances. Unfortunately for Mr S, it does not. 
Whether it would be fair for D&G to rely on the wording of the policy would depend on the 
extent of the damage. Without sight of an expert report supplied either by Mr S or D&G, Ive 
concluded on the balance of probabilities, and on the basis of the limited photographic 
evidence, that the replacement freezer was likely to have remained in good working order 
and that the damage was relatively superficial. As such, I cant say that D&G applied the 
policy in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining to settle the claim.
In view of the conclusions reached above, the question of whether D&G should offer a cash 
settlement doesnt arise. I note that D&G had nevertheless considered the possibility of 
making a cash settlement. The policy made it clear that even if the replacement freezer was 
shown not to be in good working order, the decision on whether to pay a cash settlement or 
to provide a replacement was at D&Gs discretion or option, and not that of the consumer. 
This isnt an unusual clause in such policies. However, I cant say that D&Gs decision to 
decline to pay a cash settlement would have been unreasonable in any event due to my 
conclusions above.
I turn now to Mr Ss complaint about various aspects of the service provided by D&G and 
firstly to Mr Ss complaint about the delivery address. I note that D&Gs normal approach is 
to deliver appliances to the policyholders address. I understand the reason for this is to 
ensure safe delivery. Nevertheless, following time-consuming exchanges with D&G and the 
supplier, D&G agreed in this case that the freezer could be delivered to Mr Ss daughters 
address. Delivery ultimately took place on the planned date. Whilst I understand Mr Ss 
frustration with the significant communication issues around delivery, I note that D&G waived 
its standard approach in order to fulfil Mr Ss wishes. Whilst I appreciate that Mr S 
experienced some stress during this event, I cant say that D&G acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in fulfilling his wishes.
Mr S was extremely unhappy about events following his reporting of damage to the 
replacement freezer and lengthy communication around the uplift arrangements. Mr S felt 
that D&G and its suppliers were playing football and that he was being passed backwards 
and forwards between organisations. I agree that D&Gs response was confused in certain 
respects and appeared to conflate Mr Ss complaint under his policy with warranty issues. The relevant policy terms are as above, whilst the suppliers 48-hour deadline for reporting 
damage is a separate warranty issue. 
Even though it declined Mr Ss claim under its policy, I can see that D&G tried to assist Mr S 
to obtain a further replacement freezer from the supplier under its warranty. It informed Mr S 
in its final response letter that although it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, the supplier had 
advised that they were happy to arrange and engineers visit with view to carrying out a 
repair if possible, despite the reporting of the incident outside the suppliers timescales. 
However, Mr S came to the view that he didnt want to deal with the supplier and wanted a 
cash settlement only. Again, I appreciate that Mr S will have experienced some stress due to 
the confusion caused during these post-delivery communications.
Mr S also referred to efforts hed made to contact the supplier as advised by D&G but 
complained about the behaviour towards him by the suppliers representative in a telephone 
call. The relevant telephone record hasnt been provided, however Ive no reason to doubt 
that Mr S felt humiliated by the call and in turn, he reacted in an intemperate manner in 
correspondence which followed. I can understand therefore why Mr S was reluctant to 
contact the supplier following this. However, this contact related to operation of the  warranty 
rather than the home protection policy with D&G and so I dont make a finding against D&G 
in this respect.
In conclusion, Ive no doubt that Mr S suffered distress and inconvenience in the process of 
obtaining a replacement freezer. However, I consider its likely that most of the stress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr S related to D&Gs decision not to uphold his complaint and to 
decline to make a cash settlement for damage to his replacement freezer. As Ive 
determined that D&G didnt act in an unfair or unreasonable manner in relation to Mr Ss 
claim for damage to his replacement freezer, I cant say that compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be appropriate for this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
I note that D&G apologised for certain aspects of its service and paid £20 in compensation 
which I consider to be a reasonable response in all the circumstances. On occasions, this 
service considers that an apology in response to a complaint would be acceptable, or 
modest compensation should be paid for administrative or communications errors over a 
short period of time. I consider this to be the case here in relation to D&Gs somewhat 
confused communication.
I appreciate that Mr S has spent time and energy in bringing this complaint. In the light of his 
health issues, I can understand that this will have caused added stress and inconvenience. I 
hope that this decision will assist him to start to place the matter behind him. Whilst its a 
matter outside the terms of the policy and his contract with D&G, Mr S is encouraged to 
follow up the suppliers offer to assess his replacement freezer to see what can be done to 
assist under the suppliers warranty.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont require 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc to do any more in response to his complaint other than to 
pay the £20 compensation which its already offered to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman