DRN-3758116
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) didnt deal with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted Admiral to arrange for an engineer to deal with an issue with his boiler. 
Admiral said it wouldnt visit because Mr G still had hot water and heating. Mr G phoned 
Admiral again and said the problem was now worse. Admiral didnt send an engineer. Mr G 
arranged his own engineer to fix the issue. He then sent Admiral the invoice, but didnt hear 
anything further. When Mr G complained, Admiral maintained its decision to decline the 
claim.
Mr G complained to this service. Admiral provided this service with a copy of the response it 
sent Mr G about his complaint and the policy booklet. However, it didnt respond to any of 
the requests for further information from our investigator. So, our investigator considered the 
available evidence and upheld the complaint. She said Mr G had provided an invoice 
showing he had no heating or hot water. Admiral hadnt explained why it hadnt paid the 
invoice. Having read the policy terms and conditions, she said it was reasonable that Admiral 
paid it. She also said Admiral should pay £100 compensation for the delays and frustration 
caused to Mr G.
Admiral didnt reply, so the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr G first contacted Admiral, he still had heating and hot water. Looking at the policy 
terms and conditions, these said there was only cover where there had been a complete 
breakdown of the system that meant there was no heating or hot water. So, I think it was 
reasonable that Admiral didnt send an engineer at that time. 
Mr G phoned Admiral again the next day and said he had no heating or hot water. Admiral 
explained that it would send an engineer but if they found a radiator working, Mr G would be 
charged for the visit and any work carried out. Following this discussion, Mr G decided to 
arrange his own engineer. He then sent his engineers invoice to Admiral, which said there 
was no central heating. Admiral didnt refund the invoice or explain why it wouldnt do so.
Admiral didnt respond to requests for further information from this service. Our investigator 
explained to Admiral and Mr G why she thought the complaint should be upheld. Admiral 
was given further opportunities to provide evidence or comments following our investigators 
findings. However, it didnt do so. 
Ive now considered all the available information on this case. As part of that, Ive read the 
policy booklet. This said Admiral would normally send an engineer to deal with a claim, but 
would also sometimes reimburse a policyholder. The policy also covered a total failure of 
heating and hot water, which is what Mr Gs engineer said he had dealt with. In the absence 
of information from Admiral about why it didnt respond to Mr Gs request for reimbursement, 
I think its fair that it reimburses the invoice, which was for £134.
I also think the lack of response from Admiral will have caused Mr G inconvenience and 
frustration. So, I also require Admiral to pay £100 compensation.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr G £134 for the cost of his engineers visit and £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mr G £134 to reimburse the cost of his engineers visit.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman