DRN-2674371
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Rs complaint. Mr Lender disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I wasnt upholding Mrs Rs 
complaint about loans 1 - 4. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs R took five short-term loans from Mr Lender between February 2017 and December
2018. A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender,
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedHighest 
Repayment
1 15/02/2017 31/05/2017 3 £200.00 £132.26
2 15/06/2017 31/10/2017 3 £200.00 £138.66
3 17/02/2018 31/05/2018 3 £200.00 £129.06
4 16/07/2018 30/11/2018 3 £499.00 £345.88
5 01/12/2018 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £327.50
In its final response, Mr Lender offered to remove all the unpaid interest from loan 5, and
then rework the account so that all payments made by Mrs R went towards the amount
borrowed, this would leave her with a balance of around £1,144. Mr Lender said it would
arrange a suitable repayment plan with Mrs R to allow her to repay the remaining capital. But
as Mr Lender had not confirmed what amendments it was making to Mrs Rs credit file, this
service couldnt be sure the offer for loan 5 was in-line with our usual redress
recommendations.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint. She didnt think Mr Lender were wrong
to approve Mrs Rs first three loans. But when Mrs R applied for loan 4, our adjudicator
thought that her pattern of lending showed that loan 4 and any subsequent borrowing was
unsustainable. So, she upheld Mrs Rs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
It appears that Mrs R agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr Lender disagreed and in response it made the following points:
Loans 1 to 3 are for the same amount. Loan 4 was the first loan increase.
There are a number of gaps between the loans.
There were two salary increases in the borrowing relationship. Meaning the 
percentage of Mrs Rs salary to be repaid on the higher loans were more sustainable.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.We asked Mr Lender for further clarity about its offer for loan 5 as it had upheld this loan as
part of its own investigations. Mr Lender confirmed it would remove the loan entry entirely
from Mrs Rs credit file once the outstanding capital balance was repaid. But it should
arrange to remove the adverse credit file data that has been recorded to date.
As Mr Lender has already agreed that loan 5 shouldnt have been approved and its offer is
in-line with our recommendations had this service upheld this loan, I find no need to make a
decision on the last loan in this decision.
Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mr Lender to have provided Mrs Rs first three
loans. Mrs R appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans.
Mr Lender also appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings  albeit it did provide
some further comments about these loans to further emphasis the reasons why it didnt think
it was wrong to approve loan 4.
But taking into account what Mr Lender knew about Mrs R at the time of her loan
applications and the fact they were taken out early on in the lending relationship, I dont think
Mr Lender was wrong to have approved these loans.
Loan 4
When Mrs R applied for her fourth loan, Mr Lender asked her to declare her monthly income
and expenditure. Mrs R declared that she had a monthly income of £2,400 and her monthly
expenditure amounted to £1,699. This would have left her with a monthly disposable income
of £701 from which to meet the highest loan repayment of £345.88.
Ive considered our adjudicators rationale for upholding this loan, but I cant conclude that
Mrs R was showing signs that she had become persistently reliant on Mr Lenders loans. I
say this because there were gaps between some of the loans where Mrs R did not need to
borrow from the lender. For example, there was a three and a half month gap between
Mrs R repaying loan 2 and taking out loan 3. Mrs R proceeded to make her contractual
repayments as agreed for loan 3 before repaying the loan. Then around 6 weeks later, Mrs
R applied for loan 4. So, I cant say that Mrs R was persistently reliant to the point.
However, I do think that Mr Lenders checks should have gone further for loan 4. It appears it
completed the same level of checks as for Mrs Rs first three loans. But this was now
Mrs Rs fourth loan and she had been indebted to the business for over 10 months out of the
17 months since her first loan. Loan 4 was also for a higher amount, meaning
Mrs Rs repayments were around three times higher than her first loan. So, I think Mr Lender
should have done more to understand more about Mrs Rs circumstances, and if she could
afford as well as sustain these loans.
But, Mrs R hasnt provided us with a copy of her credit file or bank statements showing what
her circumstances were likely to have been at the time she took out this loan. So, I cant say
further checks wouldve made a difference to Mr Lenders decision to lend.
Based on the information we have from both parties so far, I dont think it was unreasonable
that Mr Lender made the decision to approve this loan. I understand that my findings are
likely to disappoint Mrs R but I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive
reached this conclusion.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs R and Mr Lender didnt provide any further information or comments for me to 
consider after receiving my provisional decision. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons. I still think that, based on the information I have to hand, Mr Lender wasnt 
wrong to have provided loans 1 - 4. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mrs 
Rs complaint about loans 1  4. 
But PDL Finance Limited should arrange to put things right for Mrs R as it has already 
agreed to do for loan 5. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman