The complaint
Miss R complains about charges placed on her bank account by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Miss R holds a personal bank account with Barclays, which includes an overdraft facility. 
Miss R complained to Barclays, as she was unhappy about the amount of charges that have 
been applied to the account since she opened it. She says the charges are extortionate and 
she is in financial difficulty. Miss R wants Barclays to refund all the charges she has 
incurred.
Barclays says it has applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Rs 
account. It says it arranged a number goodwill refunds to Miss R and asked her to contact 
their financial hardship team to discuss potential solutions. But it says Miss R hasnt 
provided evidence of her financial circumstances, so it hasnt been able to arrange an 
alternative payment plan for her. Barclays says it has treated Miss R positively and 
sympathetically, and it recommended she cancel any unnecessary direct debits to improve 
her financial position. 
Miss R didnt accept Barclays response and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She found 
that our service couldnt look into any charges applied  more than six years ago. She found 
that Barclays had applied the remaining charges in line with the terms and conditions of Miss 
Rs account. And she thought that Barclays had treated Miss R positively and 
sympathetically in regards to her financial difficulty.
Miss R said she had returned an income and expenditure form to Barclays in 2017, but our 
investigator couldnt find any record of this. She found that Barclays had contacted Miss R 
numerous times in relation to the charges but said she hadnt changed her account 
behaviour or committed to engaging with the financial hardship team at Barclays.
Miss R disagreed with our investigators findings and said she felt she had been treated 
differently to other cases where people got their charges back. Miss R asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
The Supreme Court made a ruling in 2009, which said that account charges cant be 
challenged on the basis they are too high or too excessive. So I can only consider whether 
DRN-1111053Barclays made any mistakes when it applied the charges to Miss Rs account. Ill also look at 
how Barclays responded once they were made aware of Miss Rs financial difficulty and 
whether I think it acted positively and sympathetically.
Ive looked at Miss Rs bank statements alongside the terms and conditions for her account. 
I havent seen anything that would suggest Barclays applied charges incorrectly to her 
account during the last six years, so I cant ask it to refund any charges to Miss R on this 
basis.
I can see from Miss Rs account history that she first complained about her account charges 
in 2013. Barclays agreed to waive the charges as a gesture of goodwill and asked Miss R to 
complete an affordability assessment so they could consider the best options to support her 
financial difficulty. I think this was a reasonable approach for Barclays to take.
Over the next few years, I can see Miss R raised several complaints to Barclays about 
account charges. In response, Barclays refunded some as goodwill gestures. Barclays 
contact notes for Miss R suggest it also told her what she needed to do in order to avoid 
future charges. In addition, Barclays sent Miss R a number of financial assistance letters 
when charges were applied to her account. Ive looked at the letters and they include details 
of debt advice charities and support tools for managing the account. So overall, I am 
satisfied Barclays has treated Miss R positively and sympathetically once it became aware of 
her financial difficulty.
Miss R says she completed an income and expenditure form for Barclays in 2017 and 
returned it. But I havent seen anything from the evidence provided to show Barclays 
received this. I can see Barclays asked for this information on a number of occasions, but it 
appears Miss R didnt take the next step of engaging with the financial assistance team at 
Barclays. In order for Barclays to be able to offer Miss R further support it would need this 
information in order to give her the appropriate advice. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong it the way it has 
administered Miss Rs bank account, so I wont be requiring it to do anything further. I 
appreciate Miss R will be disappointed with my decision  she has experienced some 
financial difficulty and feels Barclays should have done more to help her. But I can only 
reiterate what our investigator has already suggested to Miss R, and recommend she 
contact Barclays financial assistance team to discuss her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman