DRN-2934611
The complaint
Mr Cs complained that Advantage Insurance Company undervalued his car and mis-
handled his claim in relation to his car insurance policy.
All references to Advantage in this decision include its administrative agents.  
What happened
Mr Cs car was badly damaged in an accident. He made a claim on his car insurance policy 
with Advantage and, having appointed a garage to assess the damage, it decided that it was 
a total loss. Mr C challenged Advantages initial valuation and it eventually agreed to pay him 
£22,540 in settlement of the claim. 
Still unhappy with the amount Advantage had paid him, and with the service it had provided 
during the claim, Mr C complained to it. Advantage believed it had valued the car and settled 
the claim fairly. But it accepted that the garage telling Mr C his car was a total loss before 
Advantage had done so caused him distress and inconvenience. It apologised to him for 
that.    
Mr C remained unhappy as he felt Advantage had undervalued his car and had delayed the 
claim. He brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
recommended that it should be upheld. They ultimately believed that Advantage had 
undervalued Mr Cs car by £207.50 and that it should pay him the difference plus interest. 
The investigator also asked Advantage to pay Mr C £200 as compensation for the impact its 
handling of the claim had had on him.
Although Mr C accepted the investigators findings, Advantage wasnt willing to. While 
Advantage agreed with their findings regarding the valuation of the car it considered 
compensation of between £50 to £75, as opposed to £200, to be more appropriate.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2021. In it, I explained why I intended to uphold the 
complaint. I agreed with the investigators findings regarding the valuation of Mr Cs car but 
believed Advantage should pay him £100 as compensation instead of the £200 the 
investigator recommended.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Advantage 
didnt reply.
Mr C reiterated that he wasnt happy with the service hed received and the lack of empathy 
Advantage had shown towards him. He said he would still be out of pocket overall despite 
the award I intended to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, its no longer in dispute that Advantage undervalued 
Mr Cs car initially and that it should pay him the shortfall amounting to £207.50 plus interest, 
in line with the investigators recommendation. That being the case, I see no need to 
address that aspect of the complaint in any detail in this decision, other than to confirm that I 
believe it would be fair for Advantage to make this additional payment, if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Its also not in dispute that Advantage didnt always provide Mr C with a good enough level 
of service while he was making his claim. In its final response letter of November 2019, it 
offered Mr C an apology for that. In response to the investigators recommendation of £200, 
Advantage said it felt a compensation payment of £50 to £75 would be fair. 
Having carefully considered everything Mr C and Advantage have said, including Mr Cs 
response to my provisional decision, I still believe a payment of £100 in recognition of the 
upset and inconvenience caused would be fair. Ill explain why.
On the one hand, Ive taken into account that some of Advantages actions led Mr C to 
believe it wasnt dealing with his claim appropriately. For example, Mr Cs car wasnt 
collected from his home for inspection for four days despite being told it would be collected 
before then. Nine days after the inspecting garage obtained the car, the garage contacted 
Mr C to tell him his car was a total loss. Advantage accepts he should have heard this from it 
rather than the garage. I can also see that Advantage initially offered £22,250 for the loss of 
his car and that it was only after Mr C disputed this via several emails that it increased its 
offer to £22,540.
On the other hand, while I accept Mr Cs likely experienced a degree of upset and 
inconvenience, I dont believe thats entirely down to the actions of Advantage. Its important 
to remember that Mr C had been involved in an accident which had caused injury to his 
partner and led to the loss of his car. These would be upsetting events for anyone, but they 
werent caused by Advantage. 
Ive also taken into account that, for instance, while Mr C wasnt happy about the type of 
courtesy car he was provided with or the length of time it took to provide it, he wasnt entitled 
to one as per the policy terms. Thats because they say You wont be eligible for a courtesy 
car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a Total Loss/write-off and that The courtesy car 
is only available while your Car is being repaired.   
Given that Mr Cs car wasnt being repaired and that it was assessed as being a total loss, I 
dont think Advantage was required to provide him with a courtesy car in the first place. 
Taking everything into account, and having reconsidered the matter following my provisional 
decision, I still believe any unnecessary upset caused to Mr C in the circumstances was 
relatively moderate and doesnt warrant the level of award the investigator recommended, 
and which Mr C wishes me to make.
Instead, I remain of the view that it would be fair for Advantage to pay Mr C £100 as 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience it caused him.  
Putting things right
I require Advantage to:Pay Mr C the shortfall between what it originally paid for the claim (£22,540) and 
what it should have paid based on a fairer valuation of his car (£22,747.50); and
Add simple interest at the rate of 8% a year to the shortfall, calculated from the date it 
originally paid the claim to the date the shortfalls paid; plus
Pay Mr C £100 in recognition of the unnecessary upset and inconvenience its 
handling of the claim caused him.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company to put things right for Mr C as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman