DRN-1830693
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not downgrade his packaged 
bank accounts to fee free accounts when he asked on numerous occasions.
What happened
Mr C has the following account history with Barclays:
opened a fee-free account
upgraded to the Additions account in May 1996
downgraded to a fee-free account around April 2008
upgraded to a Current Account Plus account around October 2008
upgraded to the Additions Active account in November 2008
downgraded to a fee-free account around September 2013
Mr C says that while he had the Additions and Additions Active packaged bank accounts, he 
asked repeatedly to downgrade them, but he wasnt allowed to.
Barclays says that it has no record of Mr C asking for his packaged bank accounts to be 
downgraded other than on the two occasions when they were.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C disagrees so the complaint has come 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Barclays records of communication with, and complaints from, Mr C.
Barclays records are detailed and extensive and they appear to reflect the major events on 
the accounts over the years. But there is no evidence of any request to downgrade the 
packaged bank accounts other than when the two downgrades were implemented.
I think that if Mr C had made such requests, clearly, dozens of times as he says, at least a 
few of those requests would be reflected in his record, but they are not.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, I cant say that I think its more likely 
than not that Barclays ignored his multiple requests and only acted on two occasions, as I 
would have to if I were to uphold Mr Cs complaint on this point.
For completeness I note that our adjudicator his explained to Mr C that his complaints about 
the sales of his packaged bank account are out of this services jurisdiction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman