DRN-1705789
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with Billing Finance 
Ltd, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs C acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
Billing Finance. The car was over nine years old and had a mileage of 91,500.
In October 2018, the cars gearbox was replaced with a re-conditioned one at no cost to Mrs 
C, and with her agreement to that repair. This repair had been carried out by a third-party 
garage, which had been chosen by the garage that supplied the car. However, Mrs C later 
complained to Billing Finance that the gearbox had begun to stick, and she was unhappy to 
have learnt it had been a reconditioned gearbox that had been installed. She said she had 
taken the car to a third-party garage who had informed her that the gearbox was leaking, 
and a head gasket had blown. Billing Finance arranged for an independent engineer to 
inspect the car.
In February 2019, the independent engineer inspected the car and prepared a report on their 
findings. The independent engineer said there appeared to be an oil leak from the bell 
housing and that a specialist gearbox and electrical investigation was required. They also 
said that the faults with the car would either have been present from the point of sale or were 
the result of a poor repair and so, in their opinion, Billing Finance would be liable.
Billing Finance agreed to Mrs Cs request to reject the car. However, during discussions 
between Billing Finance and Mrs C, she said she had been involved in a road traffic accident 
and the car had sustained some cosmetic damage. Finance Billing told Mrs C that the car 
would have to be inspected and, if there was damage found that was beyond fair wear and 
tear and the issues which had already identified by the independent engineer, then she may 
be required to cover those costs.
Mrs C told Billings Finance that she would prefer to have the car repaired, as long as these 
repairs were undertaken by a separate third-party garage to the previous repairer. Billing 
Finance agreed to this request. It offered Mrs C the opportunity to put in a quote from her 
preferred garage.
Mrs C provided Billing Finance with a handwritten quote which wasnt on headed paper. It 
said it couldnt accept the quote in this form and suggested that rejection may be the way 
forward. Mrs C said, in the circumstances, she would prefer for the supplying garage to carry 
out the repair so long as all the items outlined by the independent engineer were repaired at 
no cost to her and in a timely manner. This was agreed and a courtesy car was provided.
The car was booked into the supplying garage who, after inspecting the car, reported that 
the head gasket had not blown, and it was a thermostat that required replacing. This part 
was fitted. It also said there was no oil leak from the gearbox, but what had been noted was 
residual oil which was cleaned off. Mrs C collected the car.
One week later the car seized, and the engine would not start. Mrs C called out a roadside 
assistance company that provided her with a short report on its findings. This said that an 
issue with the timing chain was suspected and the car had no oil. 
Mrs C complained to Billing Finance and asked to reject the car. Billing Finance arranged for 
the car to be independently inspected for a second time.
The independent engineer said that further dismantling of the car was required to ascertain 
the cause of the breakdown. They werent able to say if the fault with the car would have 
been present at the point of sale.
Billing Finance paid to have the car recovered and taken for an inspection in workshop 
conditions. This inspection found that the exhaust camshaft sprocket retaining bolt had 
broken. However, they also found that the car had sufficient oil.  The independent engineer 
said the issue with the bolt wouldnt have been present at the point of sale as it would have 
prevented the engine from running. They also said that the issue wasnt related to the cars 
previous repairs. 
Following further discussions between Billing Finance and Mrs C, she requested to voluntary 
terminate the agreement and hand the car back. As it appeared likely Mrs C would have an 
outstanding amount to clear on the agreement, once the car had been sold at auction, an 
offer of £2,250 was accepted from her by Billing Finance to resolve the finance agreement.
However, Mrs C remained unhappy at how Billing Finance had dealt with her complaint and 
she still considered the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality. She complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He said that, as the 
car had been used, then issues with repairs would reasonably be expected to arise. He said 
there had been a fault with the car which had been repaired and there was no evidence the 
previous repairs had resulted in the bolt shearing off. He said, although the car was currently 
faulty, there wasnt evidence that this had been present or developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator said he also thought Billing Finance had acted fairly and reasonably in 
accepting a lower amount when the agreement was voluntary terminated, as it would have 
been within its rights to require the full outstanding amount be repaid.
Mrs C disagreed with out investigators view. She said the car had been of poor condition 
from the point of sale, and she didnt agree that the engineer would have been able to know 
the bolt hadnt been faulty from the point of sale.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mrs C is a regulated  
consumer  credit  agreement  this service  is able to consider   complaints  
relating  to it. Billing  Finance  is also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type 
of agreement  and is responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  
person  would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  
price  and all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and 
finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the 
quality  of the goods.
Here,  the car wasn't  new being  over nine-years  old with a mileage  of 91,500,  and so I 
think  a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  there  to be issues  with maintenance  
and repairs  after a reasonable  period  of time.  The components  of a car cant  
reasonably  be expected  to last forever.
Ive seen  that the gearbox  was replaced  shortly  after Mrs C acquired  the car. Ive also 
seen  that Mrs C agreed  to those  repairs  and they were  undertaken  at no charge  to 
her. I appreciate  Mrs C was unhappy  that a re-conditioned  gearbox  was added,  rather  
than a new one but, looking  at the age and value  of the car, I dont  think  this means  
those  repairs  werent  reasonable.  
I appreciate  that Mrs C complained  that the gears  were  beginning  to stick and this led 
to her taking  the car to be looked  at by another  third party  garage,  but I havent  seen  
any evidence  that the repair  to the gearbox  was linked  to the fault which  caused  the 
car to breakdown  and stop working  in April 2019.  So, I think  its reasonable  to say 
that, although  the car had a fault,  this was repaired.
Ive seen  that Billing  Finance  offered  to let Mrs C reject  the car but she utlimately  
declined  this option.  This appears  to have  been  due to the the unfortuante  car 
accident  she was involved  in, which  meant  she would  have  been  liable  to Billing  
Finance  for any damage  which  had been  caused  to the car. I dont  think  think  it was 
unfair  for Billing  Finance  to make  this stipulation  regarding  any potential  damage  as 
this was an event  outside  of its control.  
I also dont  think  Billing  Finances  offer means  that it was accepting  the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory  quality.  Ive seen  this offer was a business  decision  so I dont  think  I can 
reasonably  say that, based  on this offer,  theres  evidence  the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale.
Ive seen  that some  of the suspected  faults  werent  found  when  the car was inspected  
on the two occasions  in workshop  conditions.  The head  gasket  hadnt  blown,  nor had 
it lost its oil. However,  the cause  of the breakdown  in April 2019  was found  to be due 
to the camshaft  sprocket  retaining  bolt shearing  off. As soon  as the bolt broke  then 
the car could  not be used.  The independent  engineer  described  this as a sudden  
event . 
The issue  is, therefore,  whether  this bolt was either  developing  a fault,  or was faulty  at 
the point  of sale,  or whether  it wasnt  of reasonable  durability.  Ive seen  this fault 
developed  around  six months  after the inception  of the agreement,  and after Mrs C 
had added  around  a further  5,000  miles  to the odometer.
The cause  of the bolt shearing  is unknown,  though  the opinion  of the supplying  
garage  is that this wasnt  due to the cars  earlier  repairs.  So, I dont  think  I have  
enough  evidence  to make  a link to any faulty  workmanship  on the car whilst  the car 
had been  in Mrs C;s possession.Taking  into account  the length  of time that had passed  before  the bolt broke  I also 
dont  think  I have  enough  evidence  to say that this issue  had been  present  at the point  
of sale.  And,  taking  into account  the cars  age and mileage,  I think  a reasonable  
person  would  expect  repair  issues  to arise  after this length  of time and amount  of use, 
meaning  I dont  think  I can reasonably  say that the car wasnt  durable.
I appreciate  Mrs C has found  this situation  stressful  and, although  I am aware  my 
decision  will be of disappointment  to her, I cant  reasonably  say that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale.
Ive seen  Mrs C was unhappy  at how Billing  Finance  treated  her complaint  about  the 
faulty  car, and she didnt  think  it had been  helpful  as time went  on, but Ive seen  that it 
did agree  to reduce  the outstanding  amount  once  the agreement  had been  voluntarily  
terminated.  My remit  isnt to investigate  how a business  handles  a complaint  as that 
isnt a regulated  business.  However,  I think  that Billing  Finance  did act fairly  by 
accepting  the offer that was put forward  on Mrs Cs behalf,  as it did have  the right to 
seek  the full amount.  
So, for the reasons  given  above,  Im not upholding  Mrs Cs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman