DRN-4108717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the service they received from First Complete Ltd trading as 
PRIMIS Mortgage Network (PRIMIS) when they applied for a mortgage for their house 
purchase. In particular, they say their payments are over their clearly expressed budget
What happened
Mr and Mrs H told us that they applied for a mortgage with the support of a broker, PRIMIS, 
in December 2021. They had a budget of £700 per month for payments, but agreed to 
stretch this very slightly to £701.66 per month, for a 5-year fixed interest rate term, and an 
overall term of 35 years. But they said that after theyd completed on their purchase, around 
the end of April 2022, they found out their payments would be £716.32. The lender said this 
wasnt a mistake on its part, so Mr and Mrs H complained to PRIMIS. 
Mr and Mrs H said that they had also complained about a number of other points - that the
bank account details given to their lender to set up the direct debit were wrong; that there
were delays during the application process; that they werent told their named broker contact
had actually left PRIMIS; and that there was confusion over documents requested by and
provided to PRIMIS because its requests were unclear, and didnt account for what had
already been sent.
Mr and Mrs H said, in response to their complaint, PRIMIS accepted that its advisor had
been asked by the lender for more information before it could approve a mortgage term of 35
years for them, but the advisor had simply amended the term to 34 years instead of asking
them for this information. Mr and Mrs H said they werent told about this, or sent a revised
mortgage illustration to reflect this change.
Mr and Mrs H said PRIMIS also accepted it hadnt requested documentation promptly, and
that it no longer had the certified copy of Mr Hs ID documentation, which he said was a
breach of data protection regulations.
Mr and Mrs H said PRIMIS had offered them £350, but that was nowhere near enough to
make up for the monthly payments outstripping their affordable budget. They said theyd be
left with a deficit, over 5 years, of £879.60. They thought that PRIMIS should pay this, and
compensation of at least the offered £350 on top.
When our service asked PRIMIS about this case, it said it had little to add to its final
response letter. It had, as Mr and Mrs H said, accepted that its advisor had amended the
term of the mortgage, rather than ask Mr and Mrs H for the evidence the lender would need
to approve the original mortgage term. This had resulted in higher monthly payments for Mr
and Mrs H. But PRIMIS said the amount of the monthly payments was set out on the offer
letter that Mr and Mrs H received. So they did have an opportunity to correct this.
PRIMIS drew attention to the following statement from their lender on that mortgage offer 
Please check the form and let us know if there are any errors or if it needs any
changes as soon as possible. As this information is the basis on which we will make
our offer of mortgage, you should not enter into any agreement to purchase if any of
the details are incorrect."
PRIMIS also accepted that its advisor had wrongly keyed in the bank account information for
Mr and Mrs H. But it said that this too was on the offer they were sent, so again, they did
have an opportunity to correct this. And their bank details were also on a letter confirming
the direct debit arrangement had been set up.
PRIMIS accepted that there were a number of delays in the application process. It said one
of these was caused by Mr and Mrs H not paying the survey fee right away. They apparently
hadnt understood this was due, although the lenders mortgage illustration said this was
payable on application.
PRIMIS said that Mr and Mrs Hs advisor was leaving, but she continued to work to complete
applications which hadnt received an offer.
PRIMIS said that it didnt initially receive any proof of address for Mr H  this should have
been obtained at the start, and then the advisor could have alerted Mr H to the need for such
proof. PRIMIS also said that there were no copies of Mr H's passport or proof of address on
its file. It said it would have expected these to be on the file, and didnt offer Mr H any
reassurance about what might have happened to these.
PRIMIS said that Mr and Mrs H had received poor service, but it also had to take into
account opportunities they had to correct the bank account details, and the term of the
mortgage. It said there was a delay in the payment of the survey fee, but it said the lending
was still being underwritten at the time, so this didnt cause wider delays to the application. It
didnt think the application was affected by the advisor being in the process of leaving
PRIMIS, as the business was still working with her for applications which hadnt been
completed. Finally PRIMIS said it understood that Mr and Mrs H werent asked about a
reduction in the mortgage term. It offered £350 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs had replied to PRIMIS, to say they wouldnt accept that, as their detriment would
be over £10,000 over the lifetime of the mortgage. PRIMIS said it wouldnt be. Theyd
worked out a figure over 35 years, but PRIMIS would expect them to remortgage after five
years, rather than pay the lenders standard variable rate after their fixed interest rate period
ended. They could change the term at that point if they wished. And PRIMIS said that the
increased monthly payment was made up of interest and capital. In short, they were paying
off their mortgage slightly faster, and PRIMIS thought they would be just over £1,000 further
ahead in paying off the capital at the end of five years.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said PRIMIS had accepted
that its advisor changed the mortgage term without discussing this with Mr and Mrs H. But
he said this was all set out on the offer document. This is an important document that Mr and
Mrs H ought to have read in full, before signing to accept. And that offer confirms the term
was 34 years and the monthly payment would be £716.72.
So our investigator said that PRIMIS made a mistake, but Mr and Mrs H did agree to this
legal document which allowed the mortgage to complete.
Our investigator said the reduced term raised Mr and Mrs Hs monthly payments by £14.66
per month. He understood that Mr and Mrs H felt they were at a financial loss, but he said
theyd actually pay less interest by reducing the term. He said Mr and Mrs H could apply to
their lender for a term change if they couldnt afford this extra payment, or they could change
the term when the fixed interest rate period ends in five years.
Our investigator thought that the £350 offered was fair compensation for the error made.Mr H replied, to say that he and Mrs H didnt accept this. They said they were going to be
worse off by £943.20 over the five-year term that they were fixed into this mortgage deal.
They said theyd been clear to PRIMIS that they could not afford over £701 per month, but
PRIMIS amended their mortgage application without asking. They said they werent made
aware of this until it was too late to do anything about it. They felt they were now at risk of
losing the property due to failure to keep up with mortgage repayments that theyd made
clear at the outset they couldnt afford.
Mr H said our investigator hadnt understood what hed said - they couldnt afford these
payments, and they couldnt afford a term change either. They suggested PRIMIS should
pay £943.20 to cover to cover the additional cost over five years, plus £350 as
compensation.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that before Mr and Mrs Hs lender reached
a decision that they could afford this mortgage, it would have checked that that they could
afford monthly payments far higher than the additional £14.66 which Mr and Mrs H are
paying now. So he said it was difficult for our service to agree that this monthly payment
increase would make the mortgage unaffordable. If this was the case, then the mortgage
would never have been approved by their lender.
Our investigator also said that some lenders don't charge for a term change and others only
charge a minimal fee, so he didnt think this was an unrealistic solution.
Finally, our investigator noted that Mr H said he wasnt told about the increased payments
until it was too late to do anything about it. But our investigator reiterated that this was all
detailed in the mortgage offer, issued to Mr and Mrs H in early February 2022. Our
investigator said this offer would also have been sent to Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor, who would
have needed to check that Mr and Mrs H had accepted this before the legal work for the
mortgage could be completed.
Mr H still didnt agree. He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it
was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
The documents Ive seen do recognise that Mr and Mrs H had a budget of £700 per 
month for repayments, and PRIMIS has accepted that its broker didnt discuss 
exceeding this budget with Mr and Mrs H before the application was amended. So I 
agree that a mistake has been made here. But, as both PRIMIS and our investigator 
have noted, this was set out on the mortgage offer.
The mortgage offer is an important document, and Mr and Mrs H did agree to be bound 
by what was in that document, when they took up the mortgage offer. So I dont accept 
that Mr and Mrs H couldnt have been aware of this mistake until it was too late.
Our investigator noted that, before offering to lend this money to Mr and Mrs H, their 
lender would have wanted to be sure that they could afford to pay considerably more 
each month than the monthly payments they will now make in the first five years of this 
mortgage. I think thats right. So, without persuasive evidence on this point from Mr and 
Mrs H, I dont think its likely that this additional cost will put their home at risk.For those reasons, I dont think that PRIMIS has to cover the additional monthly 
payment that Mr and Mrs H are currently facing, for the first five years of their mortgage.
However, I do think that this does represent poor service, and I note that its only one of 
the examples of poor service by PRIMIS in this case. PRIMIS has recognised it caused 
delays in Mr and Mrs Hs application. It made a mistake with their bank account details, 
which caused problems with setting up their direct debit. And it has simply stated, rather 
baldly, that Mr Hs certified copies of ID documents are not on the file, where they 
should be. It hasnt said what happened to these.
I have considered the above carefully, and I dont think that the offer of £350 which 
PRIMIS has made to Mr and Mrs H reflects the extent of its service failings in this case, 
and the impact those will have had on Mr and Mrs H, at what was already a stressful 
time.
I think that a payment of £600 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint, and thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H replied to accept. PRIMIS sent a detailed response, objecting.
PRIMIS said it thought Id mainly agreed with the investigator, and it thought my only reason 
for raising the compensation amount from its initial offer was that it had said it couldnt see 
Mr Hs copy documentation on the PRIMIS system. It said that Id noted its final response 
letter was rather badly stated.
PRIMIS went on to provide an explanation of what it thought had happened to Mr Hs identity 
documents. Before I set that out here, so that Mr H can see it, I should note that my 
provisional decision above records there were a number of service failings, in addition to the 
change in term which our investigator focussed on. I mentioned the delays PRIMIS caused, 
the mistake over Mr and Mrs Hs bank account details, and the lack of any explanation for Mr 
Hs missing identity documents (where I think PRIMIS may have misread my comments  
the original appears above). So I dont accept that the sole reason for increasing the amount 
of compensation payable in this case is because PRIMIS had failed to reassure Mr H that 
important identity documents hadnt been lost. 
PRIMIS went on to explain that its broker should have uploaded copies of Mr Hs 
documentation onto its system. That hadnt been done, but the broker would have their own 
system which may have copies. PRIMIS said it understood that originals would be placed in 
locked disposal bins, to be shredded offsite. PRIMIS also said that the brokers privacy 
policy was available to Mr and Mrs H to read, and this is also mentioned on their mortgage 
illustration. So PRIMIS said that if Mr H had thought the letter he received referred to the 
brokers system, then that was not what the letter said. 
I can see the letter accepted Mr H should have been asked for identification documentation 
earlier in the process, then said I have accessed your archived file in order to conduct this 
investigation, however there are no copies of Mr H's passport or proof of address, which I 
would have expected to be there. Mr H then expressed concern about where the hard copies of his certified identity documents had ended up, if they were not filed as PRIMIS 
would have expected. I think it was reasonable for him to be concerned about this. 
PRIMIS said it recognised that its adviser had changed the term of the mortgage from 35 
years to 34 years, because the lender had asked for evidence of income continuing into the 
35th year of lending. But PRIMIS said Mr and Mrs H hadnt then offered any such proof, so it 
thought that they would always have accepted this shorter term anyway, even if they had 
been consulted about this. And PRIMIS said that their additional payments now would put 
them in a better position once they reached the end of their fixed interest rate period. So 
PRIMIS said, in that sense, there was no financial loss. 
I dont think we can simply assume, because Mr and Mrs H didnt offer evidence of income 
once any such evidence was too late to affect the outcome of their mortgage decision, that 
they wouldnt have been able to offer such evidence if they were asked earlier. 
PRIMIS went on to question the amount of my award, with reference to information available 
on our services website, and said it felt that the increase Id proposed, of £250, could not be 
substantiated. PRIMIS repeated that it thought Id only increased the award by this amount 
because its letter didnt explain fully what it meant when it said it couldnt see copies of Mr 
Hs documentation on its system.
Ive explained above that this isnt the sole reason for the increased compensation in this 
case. I didnt, in my provisional decision, discuss in detail the other mistakes that had been 
made in this case, because I felt that PRIMIS had, in essence, largely accepted those 
mistakes in its letter of 15 June 2022. That letter accepted that the mistake in the bank 
details originated with its broker. It accepted that delays were caused because Mr and Mrs H 
werent asked for key documentation at the start. And it accepted that its broker had 
amended Mr and Mrs Hs application, not only entirely without their approval or knowledge, 
but also without the revised mortgage illustration which could have alerted them to this 
change. My decision focussed more on the one issue in that letter I didnt think PRIMIS had 
yet accepted, that its letter then also caused further concerns, because of some rather 
unfortunate phrasing around what had happened to Mr Hs identity documentation. 
I still think that there has been a series of errors in this case, and that for all the reasons set 
out above, the compensation amount that PRIMIS suggested isnt the right amount to 
recognise the impact of this series of errors upon Mr and Mrs H. So I havent changed my 
mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must pay 
Mr and Mrs H £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman