DRN-2024924
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt report her County Court Judgment 
(CCJ) as satisfied on her credit file when she had repaid the debt.
What happened
Mrs Y had a loan with Nationwide. In 2014, she was experiencing a difficult time was unable 
to make repayments. The account was defaulted and a CCJ was registered against her. In 
2018, Mrs Y was able to repay the debt in full after receiving some inheritance. Around 18 
months later she applied for a loan. It was at this point she was told there was still an active 
CCJ on her credit file.
Mrs Y complained as she believes the CCJ shouldve been removed when she repaid the 
debt in 2018. She feels she has lost out on better rates as a result of this. Nationwide 
acknowledged that it hadnt marked her credit file to say the CJ amount had been repaid. It 
updated this in October 2019 and marked the account as dormant. Nationwide paid Mrs Y 
£150 for the trouble and upset the delay caused. But it also explained that the CCJ would 
remain on Mrs Ys credit file for six years in total.
I sent out my provisional decision, which is attached below and forms part of this decision, 
on 26 June 2020. I explained that I agreed Nationwide shouldve updated Mrs Ys credit file 
sooner, but that I felt the £150 compensation it paid for this was fair and reasonable. This 
was because I felt the presence of the CCJ caused the biggest upset for Mrs Y, but this was 
always going to be on her file for six years. And Mrs Y explained since the CCJ has dropped 
off her file, her credit rating had increased. I explained that I didnt think the reporting of Mrs 
Ys debt as dormant rather than satisfied was incorrect or had caused any significant 
impact.
Mrs Y disagreed. She explained that she wasnt able to get a letter of satisfaction from the 
court because of the way Nationwide had reported the debt, even though it had been repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Mrs Y to provide further information to show that the court wouldnt provide her with 
a certificate of satisfaction to determine whether this was due to Nationwides error. Mrs Y 
provided us with correspondence from the court. However, this said she hadnt provided the 
right evidence rather than suggesting that Nationwides reporting had caused the issue.
The court explained to Mrs Y in this correspondence that she needed to send it the letter 
from the solicitors which said the debt had been repaid in full. Mrs Y had sent a letter from 
the Land Registry instead. Whilst I imagine this was frustrating, I cant see that it was 
Nationwides error that led to this issue. And, in any event, the correspondence was from 
around the same time that Nationwide had updated the file. Theres no other evidence to 
suggest the way Nationwide reported the debt caused any additional impact than the CCJ 
itself  which has now come off Mrs Ys credit file as six years have passed.
In the absence of any additional evidence, my final decision is the same as that reached in 
my provisional decision which is attached below and forms part of this decision. The 
compensation Nationwide paid Mrs Y for its error is fair and reasonable. So, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in this decision, and my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt report her County Court Judgment
(CCJ) as satisfied on her credit file when she had repaid the debt.
What happened
Mrs Y had a loan with Nationwide. In 2014, she was experiencing a difficult time and was
unable to make repayments. The account was defaulted and a CCJ was registered against
her. In 2018, Mrs Y was able to repay the debt in full after receiving an inheritance. Around
18 months later she applied for a loan. It was at this point she was told there was still an
active CCJ on her credit file.
Mrs Y complained as she believes the CCJ shouldve been removed when she repaid the
debt in 2018. She feels she has lost out on better rates as a result of this. Nationwide
acknowledged that it hadnt marked her credit file to say the CCJ amount had been repaid. It
updated this in October 2019 and marked the account as dormant. Nationwide paid Mrs Y
£150 for the trouble and upset the delay caused. But it also explained that the CCJ would
remain on Mrs Ys credit file for six years in total.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She felt that Mrs Y has suffered a serious amount of
trouble and upset when Nationwide made this error. The investigator explained that Mrs Y
had been through such a difficult time, so to find out that her CCJ was reporting incorrectly
so long after shed managed to pay it off wouldve been distressing. The investigator also
commented that she felt Nationwide shouldve reported the CCJ as satisfied rather than
dormant. She recommended Nationwide pay Mrs Y £350 compensation in total.
Nationwide disagreed with the investigator. It said that marking the account as dormant
was its standard process when a CCJ had been settled. It means there is no outstanding
balance and the account isnt active. So, it believes it has reported it accurately, even though
it did this later than it should have. Nationwide also explained that Mrs Y was told she could
get a certificate of satisfaction from the court when she repaid her debt in full if she wanted
some proof it had been repaid. Nationwide felt that the £150 compensation it had paid was
fair. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. I think Nationwides
offer of £150 is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Its accepted by both parties that something has gone wrong. Nationwide shouldve updated
Mrs Ys credit file to show that she had repaid the debt associated with the CCJ when she
did this  in 2018. But it didnt do this for over 18 months which was an error. My role is to
determine the impact of this error. And decide whether the offer Nationwide has made is fair
and reasonable.
Its clear that Mrs Y has been through a very difficult time and I was sorry to hear about the
events that led her to being in a position where she couldnt meet her repayments. I can see
she accepts that the CCJ was entered correctly. And that she repaid this debt as soon as
she had the means to do so. I can imagine this must have been a weight off her mind at the
time. And Id imagine it did come as a shock when she found out, 18 months later, that the
CCJ was still showing on her credit report. However, CCJs do stay on credit reports for six
years from the date they were granted. This means Mrs Ys CCJ was always going to stay
on until 2020  regardless of whether she had repaid that debt earlier.
It does appear that Mrs Y believed the CCJ would be taken off her credit file after she repaid
it, so it wouldve been upsetting to see it was still on there. However, its presence isnt
because of Nationwides error. The error was that Nationwide hadnt marked the debt as
being repaid. So, Ive considered what impact that has had on Mrs Y.
Mrs Y has told us that she has missed out on getting better rates on credit whilst her CCJ
was being reported, and she feels this could be to do with Nationwides error. I think its
difficult to say what, if any, effect the error had on Mrs Ys credit file. Mrs Y wouldve still had
a CCJ marked against her, which wouldve seriously affected her credit score and her ability
to get credit. This is regardless of whether the account had been marked as being settled or
not. This is because the CCJ remains for six years. And its evidenced in Mrs Ys credit
score increasing substantially at the point the CCJ had been removed. So, I dont think the
difficulties Mrs Y experienced with obtaining credit was due to the reporting error, but rather
the presence of the CCJ which wasnt an error.
Nationwide reported the account as dormant in 2019  when this shouldve been in early
2018. And I do think Mrs Y has suffered trouble and upset because of this error. Shes had
to get in touch with Nationwide and was worried that this error had affected her over the
previous 18 months. Its important to note that for the 18 months that the debt wasnt
reported as dormant, Mrs Y didnt know about it. So, I dont think shes experienced any
trouble and upset for this period of time. But rather, in the instance that she discovered the
problem. And I think that the biggest shock was that the CCJ was still on her file. Ive
explained that this would always have been the case, and Mrs Y may have misunderstood
that repaying the debt would remove the CCJ earlier. So, I dont think Nationwides error has
been the main source of Mrs Ys distress. But I do think Nationwide shouldve updated her
credit file earlier and this couldve relieved some of the trouble and upset. It has already paid
her £150 compensation for this and I do think this is fair and reasonable.
I understand Mrs Y felt Nationwide shouldve reported her account status as satisfied
rather than dormant. And our investigator also felt this should be the case. The Information
Commissioners Office (ICO) set out the principles for reporting to credit reference agencies.This says that lenders must report data that is fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to
date. Were aware that Nationwide didnt keep its reporting up to date for Mrs Y. But when it
did it recorded the account as dormant. Nationwide says this is how it reports accounts that
have no outstanding balance and that arent active. This is the case here. Mrs Y had a loan
account, the CCJ was registered and after it was repaid the account was dormant. I cant
say that Nationwide has reported inaccurate data about Mrs Ys account in doing this.
I do understand that Mrs Y wouldve been very upset to find out the debt relating to her CCJ
hadnt been marked as being settled. But Ive explained why this didnt mean the CCJ should
have been removed. As I think it was the presence of the CCJ when Mrs Y had expected it
to have been removed that caused the biggest upset, I dont intend on asking Nationwide to
provide any additional compensation. I think the £150 it has already paid is fair and
reasonable to put right its error in not updating that the debt had been repaid.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman