DRN-3499671
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a loan and unfairly reduce his overdraft limit. 
What happened
Mr Js current account with Lloyds had a £3,000 overdraft limit. In September 2020 Mr Js 
account had been overdrawn and subject to regular fees for some time. Lloyds arranged a 
refinance loan of £2,300 to clear the outstanding overdraft balance. The funds were paid into 
Mr Js account, clearing the overdraft balance, in the middle of September 2020 and left 
around £400 in credit. Lloyds also took the step of reducing Mr Js overdraft limit to £500. 
In May 2021 Mr J complained that Lloyds reduced the overdraft limit on his current account 
from £3,000 to £500. Lloyds didnt agree it had acted unfairly and said the overdraft limit was 
reduced in line with the loan hed taken out. Lloyds sent Mr J a further final response in 
October 2021 but didnt agree it had mis-sold the loan. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint but thought Lloyds had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr J asked to appeal and said that whilst he had an overdraft facility of £3,000 he 
never used more than £700 of it. Mr J said hed been misled by Lloyds and that it had acted 
unfairly. As Mr J asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says the loan was sold in order to refinance Mr Js overdraft and repay the overdraft 
balance. In response to the investigator, Mr J said he was never more than £700 overdrawn. 
But Mr Js account statements dont show that. On 14 September 2020, the date the loan 
funds were paid into Mr Js account, he was £1,896.26 overdrawn. In August 2020 the 
account was overdrawn by over £2,000. In July 2020 the account was around £2,450 
overdrawn at one stage. So Im satisfied the account balance had been overdrawn in line 
with the figures Lloyds has provided. 
Lloyds says Mr J was making average monthly payments of £55 to service his overdraft. The 
monthly loan payments were £67.90, around £13 more. Whilst the payment was a bit higher, 
the loan repayments will clear the balance over the term of the loan. But if Mr O had 
continued to pay daily interest charges, the balance would not be repaid. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds mis-sold his loan. Im 
satisfied the loan was arranged to ensure the outstanding balance on his overdraft would be 
repaid. And Im satisfied Lloyds took Mr Js circumstances into account when assessing 
whether to approve his loan. 
Mr J also complained that Lloyds reduced his overdraft limit from £3,000 to £500. But Lloyds 
account terms allow it to review an overdraft facility at any time. And given Mr J had just 
refinanced his overdraft debt, I think it was a reasonable point for Lloyds to review his 
account and whether to continue offering the same overdraft limit. I havent found that Lloyds 
acted unfairly when it reduced Mr Js overdraft limit. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but as Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman