DRN-1619093
 
The complaint
 Mrs W complains that Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) didnt process her instruction to 
close her Stocks and Shares ISA when it shouldve done.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs W completed a withdrawal form and sent this to Aegon with the intention of 
withdrawing from her ISA. But the account number she put on the form was for her GIA and 
not her ISA.
She clarified that it was her ISA she wanted to close on 9 May 2019, with the withdrawal 
being completed on 20 May 2019. 
Mrs W complained because she thought that Aegon shouldve completed the withdrawal 
from her ISA on receipt of the withdrawal form she had sent in April 2019.
Aegon didnt agree it should've acted on receipt of the withdrawal from in April 2019 but 
accepted that it shouldve processed the instruction for withdrawal from the ISA sooner. It 
said this shouldve been completed on 15 May 2019 rather than 20 May 2019 and paid £137 
for the difference in value between those two dates. It also paid a further £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She thought that Aegon had dealt with 
matters fairly. She said the withdrawal form Mrs W had completed in April 2019 was for her 
GIA not ISA, and that the first time she indicated to Aegon she wanted to withdraw form the 
ISA was 9 May 2019.
In the circumstances she thought that the redress Aegon had paid  based on the 
withdrawal taking place on 15 May 2019 rather than 20 May 2019  was fair.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she had no idea she had a GIA 
before this situation arose and that when she first invested there was no cash un-invested. 
She also pointed out that there was only one number different in the account numbers. She 
said she completed the withdrawal form with the numbers she had in her files and is 
incredulous that Aegon thought she wanted to withdraw the £0.20 from the GIA when there 
was over £8,300 in the ISA.
The investigator responded to the points made by Mrs W but didnt change her opinion so 
the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I agree with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld, and for 
the same reasons. 
The issue in this complaint is whether Aegon should have withdrawn the funds in Mrs Ws 
ISA earlier than 15 May 2019  it being accepted by Aegon that this is when the withdrawal 
shouldve taken place.
I note that Mrs W initially said she had had to ask for the withdrawal form to be provided on 
three occasions. But these requests were not made to Aegon, as the investigator pointed 
out. So it was not responsible for any delay in the form being provided to Mrs W initially.
So I think what this complaint comes down to is whether it was responsible for the delay in 
withdrawal caused by Mrs W providing the wrong account number on her withdrawal form.
The withdrawal form itself allows for withdrawal from both the GIA and ISA, so Aegon was 
not in a position to know what Mrs W wanted simply because the form has been completed.
Mrs W has said that she didnt know she had a GIA. It is part of Aegons terms and 
conditions that it will open a GIA when a client takes out one of its products and Aegon had 
no reason to think Mrs W wasnt aware she had a GIA. I think this is especially so given she 
received statements showing her accounts. The most recent statement was dated 19 March 
2019 only shortly before she completed the withdrawal form. The statement clearly showed 
two accounts, identified as her ISA and GIA with their individual account numbers and 
current values.
I note also that Mrs W also was sent an email by Aegon on 16 April 2019 in response to her 
withdrawal request because she hadnt dated the form, and this clearly referred to her GIA 
not ISA.
Mrs W has suggested Aegon shouldve known she didnt want to withdraw from her GIA 
given it only had £0.20 in it. But Aegon had no way of knowing what her intentions were. It 
had no reason to think she didnt want to close her GIA to tidy up her finances or for some 
other reason. Its responsibility was to act on the instruction it had been given, which is what 
it did.
Aegon has accepted it was responsible for delay between 15 May 2019 and 20 May 2019 
and has offered reasonable redress for that. But other than that I dont think it has done 
anything else wrong for the reasons I have set out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman