DRN-4254939
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided his home insurance policy and declined 
his claim. 
What happened
Mr B was away on holiday when he received a call to say there was an escape of water at 
his house. Mr B returned home and discovered it was a severe flood and the house was 
beginning to move. He therefore contacted AXA to claim on his policy for the escape of 
water and possible subsidence. 
AXA inspected the property and said it didnt think it was subsidence due to the damage 
sustained. Not long after AXA inspected the house, the side of the house collapsed causing 
extensive damage. 
When AXA reviewed the claim, it discovered Mr B had applied for planning permission to 
build other houses on his land. During this process the local authority had required Mr B to 
have a report on his house. The report had been completed a few years before and 
highlighted that Mr Bs house had moved and needed work to bring the house up to a stable 
and safe condition. As none of the work recommended had been completed AXA didnt think 
Mr B had taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out the policy, 
as he said it hadnt had any structural movement and was in a good state of repair. Because 
of this it avoided his policy and declined his claim. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the property had stood for over 150 
years and while he agreed it needed work, he didnt have any concern the property wasnt 
safe to live in. AXA reviewed the complaint and maintained its position. As Mr B didnt agree 
he referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that if AXA had been made aware of the 
condition of Mr Bs house, it wouldnt have offered cover. She therefore didnt think AXA had 
done anything wrong by avoiding the policy. Mr B didnt agree. He said he was unable to 
now live in the property and it had only collapsed due to the escape of water. He also said 
the claim not being paid had a significant impact on him. 
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy online in 2020 and when it renewed each year until the claim in 2022. 
Ive looked at the online sales channel and the renewal documents Mr B was sent and asked 
to check each year. Within these Mr B is asked Is the property in a good state of repair and 
will it be kept so during the policy term? to which Mr Bs answer is Yes. He was also asked 
whether the property had in the last ten years Suffered any structural movement of 
settlement, subsidence, landslip or heave? to which Mr B replied No. 
AXA has provided the report done on Mr Bs house in 2017 where it says: 
There is a vertical fracture apparent where the partition wall of the lounge 
meets the rear wall. A corresponding crack in the ceiling line suggests 
outward bowing of the first-floor wall. It appears that the first floor needs to 
be tied to the rear wall using BAT M305 straps, or similar method of tying.
Ive also noted at the end of the report it says:
I have estimated a total net base cost of repairs of £167,000 to bring the
buildings to a stable and safe condition and to extend the functional life 
of the buildings by undertaking fundamental repairs to the building 
fabric.
 
When considering the contents of the report, Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and 
reasonably by saying Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering those questions. Ive therefore looked at what AXA would have done if Mr B 
had answered those questions correctly. 
AXA has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria to show that if Mr B had 
answered those questions correctly it wouldnt have offered cover. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AXA has said Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless and refunded his premium. This is in 
line with the remedies available under CIDRA for a careless misrepresentation. 
I appreciate the significant impact this claim has had on Mr B, and while I understand the 
difficult situation, he is now in. Im not persuaded AXA has acted unfairly by avoiding his 
policy for the reasons given. Im therefore not going to tell AXA to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 Alex Newman
Ombudsman