DRN-3171103
The complaint
Mr D complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr D with a loan as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableDate repaid
24/03/2017 £1,000 24 months £102.33 £2,455.92 12/09/2017
Mr D said, through a representative, that it was irresponsible of 118 118 Money to provide 
this loan as he was on a zero hours contract and he couldnt afford it.
When Mr D complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. She thought that 118 118 Money 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ds financial situation. But, as 
she hadnt seen anything to show that a proportionate check wouldve showed it was unfair 
to lend, she didnt have enough information to be able to uphold the complaint.
We asked Mr D to send us his bank statements so we could assess his complaint further. 
Despite allowing some extra time for him to do this, he hasnt sent us any further information 
and his representative has asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint. 
So Mr Ds complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
And even if a proportionate check was done and a loan looked affordable, a lender should 
still think about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to 
lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more 
money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of 
income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could 
be more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular 
level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr D and thought carefully about the following key questions:
- Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ds loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?
- Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr D about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan.
It completed income verification with a third party and checked Mr Ds credit file to 
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
It told us that it spoke to Mr D over the phone as part of the loan application process when it 
explained the loan terms and asked Mr D to confirm that it was affordable for him. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that its independent check showed that it could rely on the 
monthly income of £1,900 that Mr D had declared. 118 118 Money recorded information showing that Mr D had said his housing costs were 
£300, he didnt pay any council tax and bills (including food) amounted to £240. He told 118 
118 Money that existing card and loan payments cost him £270 per month. 
He said the loan purpose was to pay for a holiday.
118 118 Money concluded that this meant its loan was affordable for Mr D  and I can see 
that these figures suggested he should have some surplus cash to pay this loan. 
But I dont think 118 118 Money thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered potentially revealed about Mr Ds overall financial situation. 
I say this because there was some adverse information shown on the credit checks it 
obtained and it was also apparent that Mr D was already spending quite a substantial 
proportion of his take home pay on servicing existing debt  and he would be paying an even 
bigger proportion of his income towards credit costs once hed taken out this loan. 
118 118 Money was aware that he didnt plan to use its loan to repay any other debt and so 
it would add to Mr Ds overall indebtedness. 
So 118 118 Money shouldve realised that there was a risk the loan wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for Mr D over the loan term.
Whilst these things werent enough in my view to warrant refusing his loan application, 
keeping also in mind the loan term and amount, I think 118 118 Money shouldve been 
alerted to the need for more in-depth checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of 
Mr Ds finances.   
Im not satisfied that the checks 118 118 Money went far enough. 
To my mind, 118 118 Moneys checks should have included a full review of Mr Ds financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments were affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I also need to be able to say that if 118 118 Money had done what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, these would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr D couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 118 
118 Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr D was given a loan that was 
unaffordable for him and this is why Im not upholding his complaint.
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr D but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman