DRN-4422685
The complaint
Mrs L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed her credit 
card account without notice or explanation.
What happened
In this case Mrs L has appointed a representative, but for ease of reading Ill solely refer to 
Mrs L in this decision.
Mrs L held a credit card account with Amex, which was used for general spending. But on 
14 May 2022 Amex wrote to her to say that they had closed her account with immediate 
effect. They said the outstanding balance was now payable in full within 28 days, and if not 
repaid they may record the account as defaulted with the credit reference agencies. They 
later confirmed theyd passed the debt on to an external debt collection agency.
Unhappy with this Mrs L raised a complaint with Amex, saying she was informed her account 
was under review and to wait a few days for an investigation. She said several days later 
shed been told her account was closed, and Amex refused to give any further information.  
She found the customer service to be uninterested and offhand with her. 
Amex responded to this to say they had closed her account in line with the terms of the 
account but didnt offer up any further details. They later followed up to say they did not feel 
the customer service was of a poor standard.
Mrs L then referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened, and thought Amex hadnt been fair. They said it was reasonable for Amex to 
have reviewed Mrs Ls account and restricted it while this was going on. But they werent 
satisfied that the immediate closure was in line with the terms of the account  and they 
should have given Mrs L 60 days notice before they did. They suggested Amex pay her 
£150 for the inconvenience.
This was accepted by Mrs L, but Amex disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
Upon review I issued my provisional decision, which said the following:
Amex, like all firms that provide credit to people in the UK, have many legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet while providing accounts to their consumers. These can range from 
ensuring they have up-to-date details of the consumers to ensuring that its still appropriate 
to lend to a particular individual. In the course of meeting these obligations, Amex may need 
to review an account. And while the review is ongoing, they may need to restrict the activity 
on the account, and not allow any further transactions. Theres provision for this in the terms 
of Mrs Ls Amex account, and this isnt unreasonable in itself. 
Sometimes these reviews will lead to Amex deciding they dont want to continue to provide 
credit. This will generally be a commercial decision for them to make  but if they do decide 
to close an account, then they should do so in line with the terms of the account.
Amex arent under any specific obligation to explain to Mrs L why theyve decided to review 
and then close her account, and in this case have decided not to. Ive no doubt that when 
Mrs L spoke to Amex about the closure it would have been unhelpful. But as theyre not 
obliged to discuss the reasons for the closure, there would be very little Amex could speak to 
her. I understand the frustration, but I dont see Amex have done anything significantly 
wrong by this.
But Amex have provided their reasoning for the review and closure to our service. Our rules 
allow us to treat certain evidence submitted in confidence. It wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to go into detail about why Amex initially reviewed Mrs Ls account. But Im satisfied that the 
reasons for the review and subsequent closure are reasonable.
The terms of the account also allow Amex to close the account. Generally, this would require 
two months notice to be given, but in this case, Amex didnt provide any further notice and 
requested immediate repayment. The terms of the account allow this only in limited 
circumstances. Having considered the circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied that the 
manner in which the account was closed was appropriate. 
I thought carefully about whether two months notice should have been given  but Im also 
minded that as this was a credit card Amex are within their rights to choose not to lend any 
further. Even if they had provided notice this wouldnt necessarily have meant Mrs L would 
have had use of the card for those two months. It does seem hasty to demand full 
repayment within 28 days and appoint a debt collection agency. But from what Mrs L has 
sent us the outstanding debt was settled by 23 May 2022  so Im not persuaded this had a 
material impact on Mrs L. 
I appreciate Mrs L would like to know more, and it will have been frustrating to suddenly find 
herself without the use of her credit card. But Im not satisfied that Amex have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here. They are entitled to review and close accounts, and Im persuaded 
they have done so in line with the terms of the account.  From reviewing the statements, I 
can see theyve carried out a partial refund of the annual card fee for the unused portion, 
and I think thats fair. 
I did not ask Amex to do anything further. Neither party responded to my provisional decision 
before the deadline, so it now falls on me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence or points for consideration, I 
remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision.
It was reasonable for Amex to review and ultimately close Mrs Ls account, and Im satisfied 
they did so in line with their account terms. While I can understand Mrs Ls frustration, I dont 
see that shes been treated unfairly. As such Amex do not need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman