The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax asked her to verify her identity 
while she was trying to transfer a payment from her account to another bank. Mrs E is 
unhappy with the customer service she received from Halifax. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs E attempted to transfer money from one of her Halifax accounts to a third-
party bank account in her name. The payment didn't go through and Mrs E was asked to call 
Halifax. 
Mrs E called Halifax and was asked a number of security questions, which Mrs E says she 
passed. However, the Halifax advisor called her an 'unverified person' and said she'd need 
to go into a Halifax branch with photographic ID to verify her identity. Mrs E wasn't happy 
about this and says she was offended at being called an 'unverified person'. She asked to 
speak to a manager and make a complaint but the advisor refused to escalate her call. 
Mrs E has explained to our service that she was on a lunch break at work at the time of 
speaking to the Halifax advisor, and therefore she couldn't visit a branch straight away. But 
she needed the money to be transferred as she had bills to pay and didn't want her third-
party bank account to go overdrawn. Mrs E has also explained she was pregnant at the time 
and suffering from acute sickness, so she found the whole situation very stressful.
Halifax eventually looked into Mrs E's complaint. They explained their security processes 
had been followed correctly. But they recognised the customer service Mrs E received could 
have been better. So they offered her £50 compensation. Mrs E didn't accept this and 
brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator who looked at things thought Halifax had fairly recognised the poor 
customer service by offering £50. The investigator also explained Halifax had followed their 
processes correctly, so she couldn't ask them to do anything more. Mrs E remained unhappy 
so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will come a disappointment to Mrs E, 
so I've explained my reasons below.
Halifax, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax 
DRN-1663249were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mrs E's payment. A bank isn't 
obliged to go into detail about why they want to review a payment - sometimes something 
triggers a review, other times payments can be picked at random. But either way, Halifax 
were entitled to review it. So I can't say they've done anything wrong or acted unfairly.
I appreciate Mrs E feels that she passed security during her phone call with Halifax. But 
Halifax couldn't verify her identity fully. And therefore, to protect her account, they required 
her to go into branch with photographic ID. This is a security measure Halifax have in place 
to protect their customer's accounts, and it would be unfair of me to say they shouldn't have 
asked for this further security verification from Mrs E. I say that because, Halifax has an 
obligation to protect their customer's money. So if they have any concerns about 
somebody's identity, they are obliged to follow their security processes. I recognise in this 
case, Mrs E says it was her who was attempting the transfer, but Halifax couldn't be sure of 
that. And based on the evidence I've seen, I'm satisfied Halifax acted appropriately in the 
circumstances.
I've thought about what Mrs E has said regarding the difficulties she would have faced going 
into a branch. I don't doubt this would have been a stressful experience for her, especially 
because of her pregnancy and sickness. But I've explained above why I think Halifax were 
fair in their decision to ask her for photographic ID. I'm also aware that during the time of the 
initial phone call with Halifax, Mrs E was at work. So, while I appreciate it would have been 
inconvenient for Mrs E to go into branch, I can't fairly say she wasn't able to do so because 
of her pregnancy conditions. I'm also aware a home visit was discussed on the phone call 
between the Halifax advisor and Mrs E but a convenient time wasn't possible because of the 
branch opening times and Mrs E's working hours. 
I recognise the poor customer service Mrs E received while she was speaking to the Halifax 
advisor. It's helpful that Halifax has confirmed the advisor shouldn't have said Mrs E was an 
'unverified person', and I appreciate why Mrs E was offended by this. I also think it would 
have been more helpful that Mrs E's request to speak to a manager should have been 
granted on the initial phone call. However, I don't think this would have changed the overall 
outcome of Mrs E's complaint. I say that because Mrs E wanted the transfer to go through, 
but Halifax wouldn't process the transaction without photographic ID being presented in 
person by Mrs E - and that couldn't have been completed on the telephone. Halifax have 
recognised the poor service by offering Mrs E £50 compensation. I'm aware Mrs E didn't 
accept this offer, but I think this amount fairly recognises the lack of service. Therefore, I 
won't be asking Halifax to pay anything more, but I think this offer should still be available to 
Mrs E if she chooses to accept it.
Overall, I recognise the inconvenience of this situation to Mrs E but I'm satisfied Halifax 
followed their security processes correctly. I also think the £50 compensation offer is a fair 
reflection of the service Mrs E received. So I won't be asking Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.Hayley West
Ombudsman