DRN-1537317
The complaint
Mr M complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED charged him an additional 
two months payments after he terminated his agreement.
What happened
Mr M acquired a car funded by a finance agreement and in January he voluntarily terminated 
(VT) this. The VT document was signed and dated 4 January 2019. Startline confirm receipt 
of this on 8 January 2019. Mr M had indicated his interest in ending his agreement in mid-
December. After submitting the VT document Mr M spoke to the broker which I will call L and 
it seems there was some confusion as to whether he was returning the car or he wanted it to 
be collected. 
Mr M had raised the possibility of terminating the agreement in December and during that 
call he asked that his direct debit be cancelled. Startline was required to act on Mr Ms 
instruction and it cancelled the direct debit. Subsequently it sought the outstanding sums 
totalling £326.20, plus other charges, from Mr M, but he refused to pay. 
The car was finally collected some 35 days the VT notice was received. Startline says that 
when it received the VT document it contacted a third party to arrange the return of the car. It 
explained that Mr M had the choice of either having the car collected for an additional fee or 
to taking it back himself.
On 16 January 2019 Mr M called Startline and it says he was told he must maintain his 
monthly payments until the car was returned. It says that this means he was due to pay the 
sums due for January and February. However, it says that Mr M didnt allow the call handler 
to explain the process fully. 
In its final response letter dated 4 February Starline apologised for not setting out the 
termination process clearly and not making it clear he had to maintain payments until the car 
was returned. However, it says he was told of these in a call dated 16 January and he chose 
to continue with the termination. Mr M has explained that he wasnt told about having to 
return the car in the VT form. He also says he followed up each communication with a phone 
call. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Our investigator noted the agreement 
stated that Mr M was required to return the car once he opted for VT. While Startline didnt 
have a recording of the call its notes showed that Mr M had ended the call before he could 
be told of the VT process. He thought that the business had acted reasonably in its handling 
of the VT.
Mr M didnt agree and said the business was withholding vital evidence. He referenced a 
number of calls and that he had to chase the business and the collection agency to arrange 
for the collection of the car. He said he wasnt told he had the option to return the car and he 
presumed it was to be collected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms irritation at the charge for the period after he opted to VT, but I dont 
consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
The agreement he signed states that he is responsible for the return of the car and I note the 
VT form he signed says: I will return the vehicle as directed by you on the arranged date 
I dont consider Startline was obliged to arrange collection to take place immediately on 
receipt of the VT notice. It says it contacted its collection agent on receipt of the VT and it 
spoke to Mr M on 16 January and it advised him he was responsible for maintaining 
payments while he still had possession of the car.
Mr M had two options, either return the car himself or let Startline arrange for its collection. 
The latter option was taken and the collection process took 35 days. While it is possible that 
this could have been shorter, I dont consider it an unreasonable time period to make the 
necessary arrangements. I have noted emails between Startline and its collection agent in 
the days after 8 January which show it believed Mr M had opted to deliver the car, but later 
that this wasnt the case and he wanted it to be collected. 
I have also reviewed text exchanges between Mr M and the collection agency between 22 
January and 8 February beginning with a request for Mr M to call to arrange collection. He 
later pursues a collection date and subsequently confirms where the car can be located. 
I have clarified with Startline that the sum it is seeking covers two monthly payments due on 
5 January and 5 February. It had mistakenly referred to payment being due for March in its 
Final Response letter and I didnt believe it was entitled to charge for the March payment. 
I dont consider there can be any dispute about the payment due before the VT notice was 
received. I also dont believe it was wrong to seek the February payment. The agreement 
wasnt ended until the car was returned and I dont believe the time it took to arrange 
collection in the circumstances was unreasonable. A such I consider Starline is entitled to 
charge Mr M £326.20.
Finally, for the avoidance of doubt I would mention that I gather the business didnt charge 
Mr M the collection fee and that his complaint about damages charges has been resolved 
separately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman