DRN-2165703
The complaint
Miss M complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
Between December 2012 and April 2014, Miss M borrowed four loans from Mr Lender. The 
lending history is set out below: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Principal Planned 
instalments
1 03/12/2012 05/06/2013 £150 1
2 11/06/2013 02/09/2013 £100 1
3 02/09/2013 25/02/2014 £400 1
4 01/04/2014 23/12/2014 £300 1
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2, 3 and 4. She 
said that as Miss M had rolled over her repayments for loan 1 on several occasions, it 
should have been clear that she was struggling financially. She also thought that by loan 3, 
Mr Lender should have known that the pattern of Miss Ms borrowing was harmful. 
Mr Lender disagreed with that view. It said its rollovers provided flexibility for a customer and 
should not be assumed as a sign of financial difficulty. It noted that when she applied for 
loan 2, Miss M had borrowed less than she took out with loan 1. It did not think that the 
pattern of Miss Ms borrowing showed she was reliant on its loans. 
As Mr Lender does not agree with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the 
information Miss M provided to it. I can see it verified her income and employment 
circumstances at the point of application. I think Mr Lender should have probably done more 
to find out about Miss Ms monthly expenditure, but from the information I have, I cant say 
its decision to lend would have been different even if that information had been provided. 
However, by the time Miss M applied for loan 2, I think the position was different. Mr Lender 
again verified Miss Ms income and employment, but I think it should have asked 
considerably more questions about her financial situation. By this stage,  I think Mr Lender  
should have reasonably realised Miss M was having financial difficulties. I say this because 
the £150 Miss M borrowed in loan 1 was due to be paid back in one instalment. However, 
Miss Ms loan account was open for six months and she rolled over the debt on several 
occasions. I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend loan 2. 
Ive also looked at the overall lending pattern with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If that point was reached, it should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ms case, I agree with our adjudicator that this 
point was reached by loan 3. In arriving at that conclusion, I have taken particular account of 
the number of times both loans 1 and 2 were rolled over. By loan 3, I think it should have 
been clear to Mr Lender that Miss M was not sustainably repaying her loans. Despite the 
numerous rollovers, Miss M still took out loan 3 on the same day she ostensibly repaid loan 
2. I think Mr Lender should have been on notice that she was using loan 3 to plug the hole 
repaying loan 2 left in her finances. I think it should have been clear that Miss M was not 
using this borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income, but to meet an ongoing need. Miss M wasnt making inroads into the amount shed borrowed and had paid large 
amounts of interest to Mr Lender to service a debt over an extended period. 
Im satisfied Miss M lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide credit in respect of 
loans 2 and 4 because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms 
indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period of time. The number of loans was likely to have negative implications on 
Miss Ms ability to access mainstream credit and kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans. 
With all of this in mind, I agree with our adjudicator and Im upholding the complaint in 
respect of loans 2, 3 and 4. Mr Lender will need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender must: 
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Miss Ms credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 3 and 4 should be removed from 
Miss Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss Ms a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman