DRN-3545766
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was coerced into signing a point of sale loan agreement with Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).
What happened
In February 2019 Mr S says a third-party sales agent visited him and his ex-partner at their 
home and sold him a loan with Ikano to make home improvements (solar panels). Mr S has 
now complained that he was coerced into signing for the loan by his ex-partner and as he 
wasnt the homeowner, he says it was illegal for Ikano to give him the loan. 
Mr S also complains that he asked several times for a copy of the loan agreement, but Ikano 
didnt send it to him. So, Mr S made a complaint to the business. 
Ikano looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. Ikano didnt find any evidence that 
suggested Mr S was coerced into taking the loan. Ikano did find that a copy of the loan 
agreement wasnt sent to Mr S when he requested it, and it paid £100 compensation for this. 
Ikano also went on to say that although Mr S may have only been a tenant in the property 
that the loan was taken to complete improvements on, there was no law or reason Mr S 
couldnt take the loan. The loan in question was used to pay for solar panels.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought the loan had been taken out with the agreement of Mr S. He went on to 
say that although Mr S didnt own the property, there were no rules to say he couldnt take a 
loan for home improvements. Our investigator also listened to a number of calls between Mr 
S and Ikano and didnt find any record of the complaint Mr S has now raised within those 
calls. Our investigator did think the service Ikano provided couldve been better and for that 
he agreed that the £100 offered by the business was enough to compensate Mr S.
Mr S responded to the investigators view and said the business paid him £1,000 as an 
illegal sweetener to sign the agreement. Mr S went on to say that there was evidence he 
was listed on the agreement as a homeowner which wasnt true. 
Our investigator looked into the additional points Mr S raised but didnt change his view, so 
the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying it sounds like Mr S has been through a very challenging time, and 
Im sorry he has found himself in this situation. Its also very clear from the information Mr S 
has provided that he feels very strongly about his complaint. Ive read through the 
information in its entirety, including the new submissions he made on 20 September 2022 
and having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, but I hope after listening to my reasoning, he will understand how 
and why I reached my outcome.
Mr S main complaint is that he was sold a loan for home improvements for a home that he 
didnt own. Mr S has referred to this as illegal in a number of his submissions. But I dont 
agree that this was illegal or that the business acted outside of any rules or regulations or 
acted unfairly by selling Mr S the loan. Ill explain why.
There are no rules that would prevent the loan from being sold to Mr S for home 
improvements. Mr S could be the owner, a tenant, living with a partner or simply buying them 
for someone elses home as a gift - and all of these reasons would be ok. In fact, the 
reasons for the loan doesnt really have any bearing on the application being approved, 
pending its not for something that is actually classified in law as illegal.   
So, having thought about this point carefully, I dont think the business have done anything 
wrong in relation to the reason for the lending. 
Mr S has mentioned being in an abusive relationship, and this eventually led to the police 
being involved and Mr S leaving his ex-partner and the property, around a year after the loan 
was taken. This is something Ive considered at length and Mr S and the business has 
provided a lot of information regarding this point. Having looked through the information, Im 
satisfied that it was unlikely that the sales agent was aware of the situation Mr S has 
mentioned when the loan was sold. Mr S also hasnt raised any points from the point of sale 
that I think wouldve led the sale agent to stop the lending due to this reason. In fact, the 
issues with his partner becoming hostile and uncooperative came sometime after the point of 
sale. Although Im not doubting that fact Mr S couldve been in a difficult relationship at this 
point, I need to look at what I think the sales agent may have done wrong, and based on 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the agent did know he was providing a loan to someone 
that may have been coerced into signing for it. 
Mr S has mentioned that his ex-partner originally applied for the loan and when she didnt 
qualify, it was then put into his name. This doesnt sound out of the ordinary to me if the 
improvements were for a house they shared, and his partner had poor credit. The application 
shows Mr S had been in the property for some time before the sale and Mr S has confirmed 
that was around 20 years. Its also not uncommon for people that share a property that they 
dont both own to contribute towards the upkeep or improvements. Mr S has in his own 
submissions said that he paid for the entire house to be renovated. Mr S has also said he 
was paying his partner cash towards the upkeep of the house, and in return she put certain 
pensions and life policys in his name. So, it appears to me that they had a financial 
agreement in place that meant Mr S didnt need to be formally added to the mortgage. 
Whether that agreement was equal or fair, is not something I feel the need to comment on 
as part of this decision. 
Mr S has mentioned a payment that was returned to him of £1,000. Mr S has said this was a 
sweetener to take the loan. Ikano contacted the sales agent for more information and 
although they couldnt be sure of the reason for the returned payment, they did say the 
original number of solar panels they purchased changed and the number reduced. This 
seems like a plausible reason for the refund of some of the money. I also find it unlikely that 
the sales agent or business would charge the higher amount then refund it as a way of 
convincing Mr S to take the loan, rather than just discounting it from the very beginning. So, 
Im not convinced the business have acted incorrectly or unfairly based on what Ive seen in 
these circumstances. Ikano have also confirmed that outside of the £1,000 refund, the loan amount has not altered or been added to. 
Mr S complained that he requested the loan agreement on a number of occasions, and this 
wasnt sent to him. Ikano have acknowledged its failing in this area, as there is no evidence 
it was sent. Ikano offered £100 for the trouble and upset this cause and I find this fair. I say 
this as although it must have been frustrating to not receive the agreement, the only 
detriment Mr S has shown us is the frustration and time spent chasing it up. And I think £100 
fairly compensates him for this. 
In summary, although I have no doubts that Mr S has been through a challenging and 
distressing time with his ex-partner, my decision needs to focus on whether I think the 
business has done anything wrong when lending the money to Mr S. In these circumstances 
I havent found it has done and it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr S may find himself in a position that if he can evidence that he owns the goods 
purchased with the loan, it may be something he can pursue through other avenues like the 
courts for their return or sale. Unfortunately, our service is not able to consider this.  
Its clear Mr S is still in a difficult financial situation. He has told our service that he is now 
retired and in poor health. Ikano should do a full review of Mr Ss finances to get an 
understanding of what he can pay towards the monthly loan payments.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman