DRN-2815881
Complaint
Mrs N has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs N bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. She has said 
that she cant recall who completed the application form. But she has said if she had been 
told about PPI, she would have said no. She also said she wasnt informed she would pay 
for PPI and if she had been, she wouldnt have agreed to it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
In summary she said that she was eligible for the cover, but if she had known she was 
paying for it, she would have told the store she didnt want it. She says she didnt require it 
as she was paid by her employer if she was off sick. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain  
Mrs Ns consent. It has provided a copy of Mrs Ns store card application form from the time 
of sale. At the top of the application form there is a section titled Account Cover, which 
gives information about the PPI, such as details on the cost. Within the main body of the 
application form, it references Account Cover again and requires customers to sign this 
section if they wish to take out the PPI. This section reads (Only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover) Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to 
eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
Mrs N signed this section, indicating she wanted the cover added to her account. I am also 
satisfied this shows that there was an additional charge for the PPI.
Ive noted that on the application form, Mrs N had the option of selecting whether or not she 
wanted a Card Protection Plan. Mrs N didnt select this product, so I think she would have 
known she had a choice about taking out either product.
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs N saying that she doesnt know who completed the 
application form. But even if I accept that a staff member physically filled in parts of the 
application form for Mrs N (something I dont find surprising or unreasonable given the 
context of the sale), Ive got no reason to think they didnt discuss the PPI section with her 
before this option was selected and she signed both the PPI section agreeing to the cover 
and the overall store card application form agreeing to its contents. So, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs N agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. It was up to Mrs N to decide if she would like to take the cover. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs N was eligible for the cover and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I 
also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs N.
Mrs N has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Having thought about 
what Mrs N has said, I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say 
this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs N would have 
received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for a lot longer than she 
would have received full pay  until the end date, Mrs N stopped being ill or the outstanding 
balance had been paid for any one disability claim. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if 
Mrs N was ever made redundant until the end date, Mrs N stopped being unemployed or the 
outstanding balance had been paid for any one unemployment claim. Shes also told she 
didnt have any savings or other means she could have used to cover her store card 
payments if she ever fell on hard times. 
Finally, Ive considered what Mrs N has said about being able to rely on her friends and 
family to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Mrs Ns friends or family may have wanted to help, their financial 
situation could change, so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs N could have found the policy useful if she was too ill to work or lost 
her job and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman