DRN-2940984
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how BISL Limited after they cancelled his insurance policy. 
Any reference to BISL includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr M and BISL. 
I wont repeat what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and she didnt recommend that BISL needed to 
do anything further. She found that the actions taken by BISL to put things right after the 
policy cancellation were fair. Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion and the complaint 
has now been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. Ill explain why below.
This policy was taken out through an online comparison website in August 2020. BISL say 
that a question wouldve been asked about any unspent non-motoring convictions. 
BISL say that Mr M answered Yes to this question. Theyve also provided evidence of how 
the question wouldve been presented on the website. Mr M disputes that the question was 
asked and instead says he was asked only about any motoring convictions. 
BISL say that a Yes answer to the non-motoring convictions question would mean they 
were unable to offer a quotation for cover through the website. However, BISL accept that a 
system error affected Mr M and a small number of other customers. In summary, they say a 
quote was offered when it possibly shouldnt have been. 
This mapping issue came to light a few months after the policy had started. BISL sought to 
clarify the correct answer to the non-motoring criminal conviction question in December 
2020. Under the policy terms - as is the case with almost every type of insurance policy, the 
insurer can make appropriate and relevant checks at any time during the course of a policy 
term. I dont find the action taken by BISL unfair or unreasonable in this regard. This was 
outlined in the welcome letter dated 3 August 2020
It is important that the information you provide throughout the quote and duration of 
the policy is accurate. Failure to disclose correct and complete information to the best 
of your knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or 
not being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null & void and 
treated as if it never existed.
Based on the phone calls and correspondence between Mr M and BISL, Mr M didnt provide 
a clear answer to clarify the matter after it came to light and instead focussed on a point 
about what question was actually asked. As BISL accept there was an error (mapping) on 
their part, I dont need to make a finding on how the question was presented to Mr M. 
Instead, my decision will focus on the impact of BISLs error on Mr M.
In their final response letter dated 29 January 2021 BISL let Mr M know that his policy was 
being cancelled. This allowed Mr M the time to arrange another policy before cancellation. 
BISL also only charged Mr M for the time period he was on cover. I consider this fair. In 
acknowledgment of their error, BISL offered Mr M:
£300 compensation. I consider this fair, reasonable and proportionate;
no cancellation markers have been placed on his insurance record or the relevant 
insurance databases; and
to cover the cost of a replacement policy for Mr M to ensure he hasnt been 
disadvantaged. 
In summary, I dont require BISL to take any further action as I consider the actions theyve 
taken to put things right following their errors as fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
impact of their error. 
Often in these types of complaints, a business will avoid a policy from inception and record a 
cancellation on the customers insurance record where it later comes to light that they didnt 
have all the relevant information about a customers circumstances at the time of taking out 
the policy through a mis-representation or a customer is unwilling to provide the information.
In this specific case, BISL have chosen to rely on the mapping error for generating the quote 
rather than how Mr M may have answered the relevant question. As the resolution proposed 
by BISL in this case is actually more favourable for Mr M and theres an ongoing claim, its 
not something Id seek to interfere with or make an alternative direction as I consider their 
actions fair and reasonable overall. 
If Mr M has already arranged another insurance policy he should speak to BISL to arrange 
the reimbursement of its cost.
I know Mr M may be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with BISL  can do for him.
 
Putting things right
 BISL should now - if it hasnt already done so:Pay Mr M £300 for any trouble or upset caused;
Ensure no cancellation markers have been placed on his insurance record or the 
relevant insurance databases; and 
Cover the cost of any replacement motor insurance policy Mr M has taken out 
following the cancellation of this policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
BISL Limited should now follow the direction as set out under the heading Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman