DRN-3673809
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business (SB) as her broker failed 
to give her clear advice about a residential landlord insurance policy which led to a claim 
being proportionately settled.
Any reference to Mrs K or SB includes respective agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2020, Mrs K took out a Company A insurance policy through SB.
Mrs K initially used SBs website to obtain quotes, then spoke to an SB agent on the 
phone. The rebuild value used was £125,000. But since its been established the 
actual rebuild value shouldve instead been around £175,000.
Following a fire, Mrs K made a claim on the policy. Company A settled the claim 
proportionally as it said the property was underinsured, leaving Mrs K with a shortfall.
Mrs K complained to SB, saying it hadnt been clear about what she needed to 
provide for her rebuild costs when it sold her the policy. She said the question was 
lacking detail, and she shouldnt be required to click a pop-up box to see information 
around examples of costs. She said she had answered honestly, believing the rebuild 
cost to be similar to the price paid for the property with an added contingency of a 
few thousand pounds. So, she asked SB to pay the remainder of the claim.
SB disagreed, saying on the day the policy was taken out Mrs K had sought four 
quotes with a re-build value of £175,000 and the final fifth quote being £125,000. 
Following the quote its agent called Mrs K and it said her main focus was obtaining a 
competitive price, and during which all of the details were confirmed by Mrs K to the 
agent (including the rebuild cost). It said it offered a non-advised service and felt its 
question around rebuild cost was concise and clear.
Mrs K said the various quotes were obtained for wider general interest should they 
have wanted to buy another property in the area. And her focus on the call was about 
price as she believed shed answered the questions accurately. She also said she 
believed the rebuild value would be the price she paid for the property, with a few 
thousand pounds more as contingency (which is how she reached £125,000).
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. She initially upheld the complaint, saying the question asked wasnt 
sufficient to allow Mrs K to answer accurately. And the website hadnt pointed Mrs K 
to any tools that couldve allowed her to work out her rebuild cost (such as available 
online calculator). So, she felt the underinsurance was due to SB and directed it to 
cover the shortfall amount of the claim.
SB disagreed. It said its questions were approved by various insurers and providing 
information to a rebuild calculator could be seen as SB making a personal 
recommendation. It also said Mrs K was not a customer in this instance, but a 
professional landlord who owns multiple properties  so it said she should be aware 
of how to obtain a correct rebuild figure. And it said if Mrs K was unsure of how to 
calculate this sum, she couldve asked its agent. It also highlighted previous quotes 
obtained prior to August 2020 (as early as 2016) included re-build sums of between 
£175,000 and £150,000 for the same postcode.
Our Investigator looked again and changed her mind  not upholding the complaint. 
She felt Mrs K should be considered to be a commercial consumer. And taking into 
account the evidence available she felt the previous quotes, both at the time of sale 
and years before, persuaded her that Mrs K ought to have known the actual rebuild 
cost and the significance of this.
Mrs K put forward a detailed explanation for why she disagreed. This included 
references to various decisions issued by this Service previously. She also 
commented that she should not be seen as a commercial customer, and only had 
one other property at the time of sale. And overall, said SB had failed to give her the 
necessary clear information to allow her to answer the question correctly.
Mrs K also did not deny she obtained rebuild quotes previously up to £175,000, but 
this related to her and partner wanting an indication of what it may cost to insure a 
property elsewhere in the area in the future. She also acknowledged she had taken 
buildings policies that covered a sum of £150,000 in the past for the same property. 
She also requested additional interest to be paid on the settlement amount, and a 
loss of rent payment.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 17 August 2022, and Ive included an extract of this below.
This complaint is against SB as the broker. Any issues about Company A and its 
choice to proportionately settle this claim do not fall within this decision. 
The crux of the dispute in this case is about the information presented to Mrs K, and 
what she already knew, when she took out this policy. In doing so, it had an 
obligation to present information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Within the application, under the heading Buildings sum insured it said How much 
would it cost to rebuild your property from scratch? with a drop down box below 
allowing the user to select an appropriate sum. I think Mrs K ought to have known 
from this that the question wasnt simply asking what value she paid for her property.
To the right of this was a question mark, which if clicked on said:
The rebuild cost is not the same as the market value. In addition to the 
bricks and mortar cost, it also includes other amounts associated with 
rebuilding; fees paid to builders and architects, for example.
I think this explanation clearly details the additional costs that the rebuild cost would 
need to entail. And while I accept it could be clearer by including details of where a 
policyholder may obtain an estimate (such as an online calculator), Im not 
persuaded it is unclear.
Mrs Ks partner, Mr K has said that he helped Mrs K fill in the online questions within 
the application. He said they had discussed what the rebuild value meant, and 
thought it wouldnt cost more than the property had been purchased for. He said as 
the information box was not mandatory, they didnt think they had to read it. And 
highlighted a number of final decisions issued by this Service that touch on the topic 
of information boxes within these types of applications. To be clear, while we may 
have general approaches, our decisions are all made based on the individual facts at 
hand. So, I have to consider this point in the circumstances of Mrs Ks case.It strikes me that Mrs K having questions about the cost of the rebuild and discussing 
this with her partner while completing the application form  as theyve described  
might reasonably have led her to click on the question mark that was present or take 
other steps to check this. And in turn, seen the description that explained the 
additional costs shed need to factor into a rebuild cost. But even without clicking on 
it, I think the question clearly directed Mrs K to provide the rebuild cost.
Its not in dispute that several quotes were obtained on the same day, for building 
sum values of £175,000. Nor is it disputed that previous quotes had included values 
up to £175,000, and the property had been insured for £150,000.
Mrs K has indicated these quotes were speculative and indicated a general interest 
in costs of properties if they were to buy another in the future. But Im not persuaded 
this is the most likely explanation for these quotes. Instead it seems most likely to me 
that Mrs K had obtained these quotes to consider what the related cost of the 
premiums would be. And Mrs K hasnt explained why the cover for this year, was 
lower than previous years, if her belief was that the value should be based around 
the sale price of the home.
For all of these reasons, while I acknowledge SBs information couldve been clearer 
in places, in these circumstances Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to 
hold SB responsible for the incorrect sum input by Mrs K. And it follows that Im not 
directing SB to do anything further.
I gave both parties an opportunity to respond with any further comments or evidence. SB 
said it accepted the decision. Mrs K asked for a final decision and stated that Company A 
had not yet reached formal settlement on the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision for the reasons previously given.
I acknowledge Mrs Ks comment that Company A may not have formally settled the claim at 
this stage, but this makes no difference to the decision Ive reached as I am not directing SB 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman