DRN-1947909
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about what happened when Starling Bank Limited decided to close his 
account, and ask him to repay his overdraft.
What happened
Mr S opened a current account with Starling bank in January 2018. He was offered an 
overdraft of £2,500, which he later used. Starling contacted him in February 2019 to tell him 
it was closing his account on 20 March, and it gave him 30 days to pay back the overdraft on 
his personal account.
Mr S said he just wasnt able to pay all this back in the time hed been given. So he 
contacted Starling on 15 March to ask for a payment plan to be set up. He was unable to 
speak to anyone, although he did try again to get in touch. Starlings collections team 
contacted him on 18 March, asking when it was ok to talk, and he called back to say any 
time. There was no further contact after that until 13 June, when Mr S raised a complaint. 
In the meantime, Mr S made a number of payments onto his current account to reduce the 
debt. But then he was shocked to find his credit rating suddenly dropped. Starling had told 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) that agreed repayments were three then four months 
behind. 
Mr S complained about the fact that Starling hadnt been in touch, and about the information 
it placed on his credit record. But Starling only partly upheld his complaint, and wouldnt 
amend his credit file. He wanted Starling to change what was showing on his credit file, and 
to pay compensation for the effect that all this had on him.
Starling has agreed that it shouldve been in touch with Mr S more quickly to set up a plan. It 
upheld his complaint on that point. But it said that it wouldnt change what it had said to the 
CRAs. Mr S had been given 30 days notice to repay, and hadnt done so, so Starling said his 
account correctly showed as being in arrears. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that what Starling had 
done was in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and set out those provisions 
for Mr S. Mr S was in breach of his original terms by not repaying his overdraft within 30 
days. So Starling was within its rights to report this information to CRAs. And it has an 
obligation to other lenders to report accurate information. Our investigator said that Starling 
would make sure that an arrangement showed as in place from March 2019, but it wouldnt 
simply remove the negative information, and our investigator couldnt ask it to. 
Our investigator couldnt say which side was at fault for the breakdown in communications 
when a plan was supposed to be agreed. But if contact had been made earlier, a plan would 
still show on Mr Ss credit record.Our investigator thought that Starlings offer of £25 was fair in the circumstances. He 
wouldnt ask it to do any more. 
Mr S didnt agree with that. He said Starling had failed to set up his payment plan when he 
requested, and it was charging him monthly interest until he paid off the debt. He said hed 
never refused to pay, he just couldnt clear the overdraft in less than a month. He still 
thought Starling should remove the negative information on his credit file, and pay 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt change his mind, he said that Mr S was in arrears, and his account 
had been reported as such to CRAs. A payment plan wouldnt change that. 
Mr S sent a detailed reply, saying that Starling had failed to follow the guidelines of standard 
lending practice. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
sent to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened to the calls Mr S had with Starling about the closure of both of his 
accounts, and looked at the information Starling sent him. I note Starling appears to 
have used in-app messaging to alert Mr S to the changes on his account. It hasnt 
been able to show our service that it sent Mr S the letters I would usually expect to see 
issued when someones account is in arrears. 
I think Starling had made Mr S aware that he needed to clear his overdraft. But it didnt 
get in contact with him when he asked to set up a payment plan on the account. I think 
it shouldve returned Mr Ss call promptly. And Im not clear why Starling immediately 
moved to reporting him as being on his third missed payment. I wouldnt expect that 
status to show on a credit file until someones missed three monthly payments. Mr S 
was asked in February to repay his account by late March. So I think Starling made a 
mistake when it provided information to CRAs which led them to show Mr Ss account 
as having three missed payments in April. 
Starling told Mr S that it removed the overdraft facility on his account in March. But it 
also appears, as Mr S suggested, to have continued to charge Mr S for his overdraft 
facility until July. This isnt obviously compatible with the rest of the treatment of Mr Ss 
account. I think these charges should be refunded from the point when Mr Ss 
overdraft facility was removed, in March.
Starling has now offered to show Mr Ss account as in a payment plan from March 
2019. It hasnt said whether it will also remove the current recorded late payments. I 
have noted a number of mistakes by Starling in the process of removing Mr Ss 
overdraft, and I also note that Mr S was making payments towards his account in this 
time. For those reasons, I think that Starling should remove the late payment markers 
from Mr Ss account, where the CRA allows this for accounts in a payment plan.
This wont leave Mr S with a clean credit record. His records will still show a payment 
plan for this debt. But this will leave him with a credit record which, in my view, more 
accurately reflects the position of his account. 
I also think that Starling has provided Mr S with poor service. In addition to the issues 
Ive noted above, its call handling has also been poor. Ive listened to one call where the call handler repeatedly says he cannot hear Mr S before ringing off. But the call, 
which was recorded on Starlings systems, plays his voice clearly throughout this time. 
I dont know what went wrong on this call, but it seems more likely than not that this 
was Starlings fault. 
Because I think Starling has provided Mr S with poor service, I think Starling should 
also pay Mr S £100 in compensation, rather than the £25 it offered.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited must refund all the charges it made for Mr Ss 
overdraft after 18 March 2019, must amend Mr Ss credit file so it shows this account in a 
payment plan from 19 March 2019 and where possible must remove the late payment 
markers from Mr Ss account, and must also pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman