DRN-4420495
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has continued to make 
mistakes and failed to pay the sums promised.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim under her private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. 
Following an earlier complaint (which has been investigated separately), AXA promised to 
pay her specialists fees in full, even though he was fee limited. But when the invoices were 
sent to AXA, it incorrectly told Mrs A that the fees wouldnt be paid in full and she would 
need to pay the shortfall.
Mrs A complained and AXA apologised for its errors. It confirmed it would pay the specialist 
as agreed and also paid £200 compensation to Mrs A for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her. Mrs A remained unhappy and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that AXAs resolution to the complaint 
was fair and appropriate. 
But Mrs A disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer to resolve the complaint is fair. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
This decision relates solely to the invoices which werent correctly paid for Mrs As 
treatment despite AXA promising to cover the specialists fees in full.
AXA has accepted it made an error. It has explained it had added notes to its system 
but these were missed due to human error. It has confirmed it has provided feedback 
to the managers of the team members involved. And has apologised and paid £200 
compensation. 
Mrs A wants AXA to put measures in place to prevent mistakes and errors 
happening. Apart from what AXA has already outlined, Im not sure what more it can 
do. Mistakes do happen when human intervention is involved and when that 
happens, I have to consider whether the remedy provided is appropriate. 
In this case, AXA apologised and rectified the mistake as soon as Mrs A complained. 
Ideally, the mistakes shouldnt have been made but it isnt always possible to avoid 
errors. I agree more care should be taken and repeat errors are frustrating. For that, 
compensation for the impact of the distress, inconvenience and frustration is the 
most appropriate remedy. That is because it is not my role to punish AXA. I am 
considering the impact of the two invoices which were paid incorrectly and as the 
matter was corrected and resolved quite quickly, I think an award of £200 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think AXAs payment of £200 compensation for processing 
the specialists invoices incorrectly is fair and reasonable. It also rectified the error as I would 
expect. So it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman