DRN-4133717
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund monies he lost from his account 
after his debit card was stolen.
What happened
What Mr L says
Mr L explained that he first noticed a problem with his account when he went to pay for an 
item using his phone and the transaction was declined due to insufficient funds. Once he 
looked into the issue, he realised there were several transactions on his account that he 
didnt recognise.
Mr L contacted HSBC about the issue and discussed the disputed transactions. It was 
explained that these transactions took place overseas (country X) at casinos and automated 
teller machines (ATM). Mr L said that he last knew he had his card when he was dropping off 
a close family member at a major UK airport who was travelling to country X. Mr L explained 
that his family members destination was over 100 miles from where the disputed 
transactions took place. 
There were over £1,300 in disputed transactions that took place over several days. Mr L only 
noticed there was a problem about five days after the loss of his card. He explained to HSBC 
that he rarely used his card and made most transactions through his phone. 
Mr L told HSBC that he believed an individual in a coffee shop had been able to view the 
personal identification number (PIN) for his card which he kept recorded on the notes app 
on his phone. He said he left his wallet on the table and thought this was how his card had 
been stolen.
After reviewing the claim, HSBC declined to refund Mr L and he made a complaint about the 
issue.
What HSBC say
HSBC received the notification from Mr L about the unrecognised transactions. He advised 
them about his belief that he had his card stolen and that a third party had been able to see 
the notes app where he kept the PIN for his card.
After reviewing the claim, HSBC declined to accept it because they didnt think there was a 
plausible explanation for how the card and PIN were obtained. They again looked into the 
situation after Mr L complained but didnt change their position.
The investigation so far
Mr L brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked to provide 
information about the complaint. 
Mr L said that hed been in a coffee shop at the airport whilst he dropped off his close family 
relative. He said that hed been using his laptop to deal with some work matters and had a 
document open on the screen that contained the PIN for his card. He said this document 
was open for some time and thats how the third part had been able to obtain the PIN. He 
also believed the third party stole the card from his wallet whilst it was on the table in the 
coffee shop.
Mr L didnt notice the disputed transactions for about five days because he didnt generally 
use his card to make payments  choosing instead to use his phone. Mr L said hed returned 
to the coffee shop (on the advice of HSBC) and obtained an image from their camera system 
of an individual who Mr L said was sat behind him at the time he was in the coffee shop. The 
image was of a man with a hood up and a mask covering the lower part of his face whilst 
walking on a pavement.
HSBC provided data about the use of the card, how transactions had been made from the 
account and online banking activity. They also supplied copies of calls held with Mr L and 
their assessment of the activity. 
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator said:
There was a gap of a few days between the loss of the card and the first disputed 
transaction. A thief would tend to use it as soon as possible after the theft.
There was an inconsistency between what Mr L told HSBC and our service about 
how his PIN was compromised. He told HSBC it was stored on his phone and our 
service that it was on a document left open on his laptop.
Mr L used his online banking on several occasions during the time his card was lost 
and would have seen his balance. It was thought he should have noticed this sooner 
and contacted HSBC about it.
The investigator thought overall that it was unlikely to be anyone else who authorised these 
transactions. Mr Ls complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators outcome and said:
He didnt think the delay in spending the funds was relevant.
He was using both phone and laptop in the coffee shop and thought the bank had 
failed to accurately report what hed told them. Also that the notes on his phone 
automatically update on his laptop.
He wasnt looking at his mobile banking during this time.
Mr L though his complaint had been handled with bias.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
As part of my investigation, I asked both HSBC and Mr L for further details about the 
complaint. I sought to clarify the circumstances at the coffee shop, but unfortunately Mr L 
didnt have anything further to add about what happened as he believed hed already 
provided that information.
HSBC were asked to provide further details concerning the disputed payments and how the debit card was used at the time of the loss reported by Mr L.
This information showed that Mr L used his debit card whilst he was in the coffee shop 
together with his PIN and that just prior to this he carried out a balance enquiry at an ATM in 
the airport.
The first disputed transactions took place about four and a half hours after the card was last 
used in the coffee shop (not several days recorded in the investigators report). They 
continued to be made over several days but stopped before Mr L noticed them. There were 
two failed PIN attempts over the time the card was missing. There were no further recorded 
uses of the card after it was reported stolen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L believes theres been bias when investigating his complaint. Id like to assure Mr L that 
investigations are carried out solely to establish the facts concerning the complaint and 
nothing more. My decision is made as an independent person with no pre-determined 
outcome and is based on an impartial assessment of the evidence. When theres a 
disagreement about what happened, Ill make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr L liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr L authorised the 
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ls account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr L. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr L responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mr L believes his card was stolen and his PIN obtained after spending time in a coffee shop 
at a major UK airport. Mr L said he obtained a CCTV image after asking the coffee shop for 
access to their system and sent in a picture of a male on a pavement in a hood and face 
covering.
Mr L said he mainly used his phone to make payments from his account, but on the day of 
the loss of his card, he made an enquiry at an ATM and shortly after used it in the coffee 
shop using both the card and the PIN. The card was first used for a disputed transaction 
about four and a half hours after it was used in the coffee shop. These payments took place 
overseas.
In order to recommend Mr L received a refund, I would have to be satisfied that he lost his 
card and there was a realistic explanation for how his PIN was obtained. In this case its 
apparent that those transactions werent carried out by Mr L himself because there are 
payments made from his phone in the UK at the same time his card was being used overseas. But, if I find that the card was more than likely used with Mr Ls permission, he 
would still be liable for the money taken from his account.
There are some untypical features to the events surrounding the complaint, including the 
pattern of usage of the card. Usually, a thief who obtained the PIN (and had stolen the card) 
would use it as soon as possible as they wouldnt be aware when it would be reported. That 
wasnt the case here, although I accept there would be some travel time to get from London 
to the overseas location. But there would also have been ample opportunity to use the card 
at the airport as there are many ATMs/shops available.
The card itself was only used for a few days, by which time the account had been emptied 
and was using its overdraft. I havent seen any evidence that it continued to be used after it 
was reported stolen, which can indicate the user of the card was aware it had been reported. 
Mr L said he wasnt aware of what was happening with his card because he never checked 
his account. Theres evidence that shows Mr L used his online (mobile) banking on several 
occasions throughout the period his card was missing. That included setting up a new payee 
(which requires several steps to be carried out on the app) the day before he first reported 
the loss. Im surprised Mr L didnt notice issues with his account balance during one of these 
mobile banking sessions and notify the bank earlier. 
Regarding his version of events that he gave to HSBC and to our service. Its apparent that 
there are different versions. Mr L was quite clear when he spoke to HSBC that he was using 
his phone and a particular app. That changed when he explained what had happened in his 
complaint to our service, he then said it was a document open on his laptop that he was 
working on. In response to the investigators outcome, Mr L then said he was using both 
phone and laptop and it was HSBCs (and our) fault for not accurately interpreting what he 
said.
I dont think Mr L has been consistent here, his versions have changed at different stages of 
the complaint. I understand that peoples recollections can change when they remember 
different aspects of the earlier event, but Mr Ls insistence that his comments were 
interpreted poorly just doesnt reflect what he told both HSBC and our service. 
Mr L said he obtained a CCTV image of the person who was sat behind him which shows 
him walking away on a pavement. The coffee shop in question is a well-known chain and is 
inside the airport which is a security-controlled zone. It seems unlikely to me that the coffee 
shop would have access to pavement CCTV as that would generally be controlled by the 
airport authorities. Much more likely they would have CCTV inside the coffee shop, but 
unfortunately Mr L was unable to provide any pictures of the alleged thief inside the shop.
Its also unlikely the authorities would provide a CCTV clip to a private individual. Im not 
aware if Mr L had involved the police who would have been able to obtain such images. 
I have considered the likelihood that Mr L was shoulder surfed when he used the ATM to 
check the balance on his account, but his insistence that the hooded thief was responsible 
when he was using his phone/laptop just doesnt seem likely. I have some remaining 
questions about the source of the photo but Mr Ls response to my additional enquiries has 
meant Ive relied on the information I do have.
Overall here I think Mr Ls testimony has been inconsistent. Taken together with the 
untypical use of his card and PIN, lack of a plausible story about how his PIN was 
compromised and the delay in reporting the loss to HSBC, I think, on balance, that Mr L was 
more likely than not responsible for the use of his card by other persons. I think it was both 
fair and reasonable for HSBC to hold him liable for these transactions and I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman