DRN-2897676
The complaint
Mr A complains that a hire agreement he had for a car with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc was 
unfairly terminated, with the car being repossessed.
This complaint has been brought by a relative on behalf of Mr A but, for ease of reference, I 
will only refer to Mr A as its his name on the agreement.
 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr A entered into a three-year hire agreement for a new car. Under the 
terms and conditions of the agreement there was an initial payment of around £2,450 
followed by 35 monthly payments of around £270. There were also terms and conditions that 
Mr A would keep the car in good repair and condition, keep the car in his possession and 
control and comprehensively insure the car for the duration of the agreement. The 
agreement set out that if any of the terms and conditions were breached then this could lead 
to Hitachi terminating the agreement.
In early October 2020, the police service in another county from the one in which Mr A lived, 
contacted Hitachi and said the car had been reported to it as abandoned and damaged. 
Hitachi tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr A by phone and so it emailed him and asked him 
to confirm the car was at his registered address, and to provide a copy of the insurance and 
a contact number within seven days.
As Hitachi didnt receive a response from Mr A it sent him a default notice in November 
2020, setting out that he was considered to be in breach of his agreement by failing to keep 
the car in his possession and control, and by failing to comprehensively insure it. The notice 
said that to remedy this breach Mr A must provide proof the car was insured in his name and 
that the car was in his possession. If he failed to do so, then the lease would be terminated. 
The deadline was set for this information to be provided in 14 days. 
Hitachi didnt receive a reply from Mr A and so terminated the hire agreement and passed 
the vehicle details to a third-party company to be collected. A few days later Mr A contacted 
Hitachi to discuss the account and explained he had been abroad. He emailed a copy of a 
proposal form for insurance, which wasnt accepted by Hitachi as proof the car was insured. 
Hitachi confirmed that the agreement was being terminated. 
Mr A then emailed a copy of an insurance certificate that had expired to Hitachi, and Hitachi 
emailed Mr A and said the insurance wasnt valid, and that arrangements were being put in 
place to repossess the car. Mr A was advised by Hitachi that he should not drive the car and 
should keep it at his home address.
A relative of Mr As sent in a copy of an insurance schedule covering the period November 
2020 to November 2021. Hitachi explained that it didnt have authority to deal with anyone 
else but Mr A, and that the document provided wasnt the required insurance certificate. 
A complaint was then made to Hitachi on Mr As behalf by a relative, and Hitachi sent Mr A 
an email setting out its concerns about the insurance certificate it had received, that the bank 
account where payments were coming from wasnt in his name and that the repossession 
agents hadnt been able to trace the car. It said it had concerns about the security of the car 
and the breach of the contract. However, Hitachi offered a final opportunity to Mr A to 
provide a copy of the valid insurance certificate, a signed confirmation the car was in his 
possession, new bank details in his name for a DD to be set up and photos to show the car 
wasnt damaged or ,if it was damaged, proof it had been booked in for repairs. Hitachi asked 
Mr A to respond within two days from the date of the email. Hitachi says Mr A did not 
respond.
Hitachi sent Mr A an email when this deadline had passed and asked him to make urgent 
contact. It then repossessed the car as it said Mr A was in breach of the agreement. Mr A 
complained to Hitachi about the way the situation had been handled, the repossessing of the 
car and the end of contract charges imposed for early termination of the agreement and 
damage to the car.
Hitachi didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it hadnt taken the decision to repossess the 
car lightly, but Mr A hadnt provided the information that had been requested. Hitachi said 
the car had been inspected on collection and found to have damage to its wheels and tyres 
and a dent on the door. It said these items of damage were all beyond fair wear and tear and 
the charges of £637.23 were correct. Hitachi said there was also an early termination fee of 
£4,232 and a repossession charge of £300. It said the end of contract charges were correct.
Mr A disagreed with the view of Hitachi and complained to this service. He said the car had 
been properly insured, the documents asked for by Hitachi had been provided and it had 
unfairly re-possessed the car. He requested the return of the initial payment and for the 
outstanding early termination fee to be cancelled. He also wanted any adverse information 
recorded on his credit file about this account to be removed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She said, under 
the hire agreement, it was Mr As responsibility to keep the car in good condition and repair, 
to keep the car in his possession and under his control and keep the car fully insured. She 
said the agreement set out that, if any of the terms were breached, then Hitachi had the right 
to terminate. 
When the police reported the car had been found abandoned with damage, our investigator 
said it was reasonable that Hitachi would be concerned about the car as it belonged to them. 
It had attempted to make contact but received no response from Mr A, resulting in the 
issuing of the default notice. There then followed various contact from Mr A and a relative of 
his, but Hitachi continued to have concerns about Mr A having breached the terms of the 
agreement. She said she didnt think Hitachi acted unreasonably when it re-possessed the 
car.
Our investigator says that the agreements terms and conditions also set out what would be 
payable if it was terminated early, and if there was damage found to the car outside fair wear 
and tear. She said she didnt think Hitachi had acted unfairly in the end of contract charges it 
had applied.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. He disagreed the car had been abandoned or 
damaged and said that may have been a malicious report and that he had provided the proof 
the car was insured as requested. He said the agreement had been unfairly terminated on 
the grounds the car was uninsured when it had been, and that the insurer had also 
confirmed this with Hitachi.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that Hitachi has unfairly terminated the hire agreement as it says the car was 
uninsured. However, Ive seen that Hitachi raised a number of potential breaches of the 
agreement with Mr A, not just the insurance.
I appreciate Mr A says the car wasnt abandoned but I think its fair to say the police had 
taken a report about the car seriously and contacted Hitachi who was the owner of the 
vehicle. In these circumstances I cant reasonably say that Hitachi didnt have cause to be 
concerned that the car wasnt in Mr As possession or under his control as per the terms of 
the hire agreement. Hitachi attempted to contact Mr A but was unable to do so. It appears to 
have tried both calling and emailing without success and, although I appreciate Mr A was 
abroad at the time, Hitachi wouldnt have known that. Hitachi asked Mr A to provide 
confirmation that car was with him at the registered address and to provide a certificate for 
insurance and a contact number. It asked for a response within seven days. No response 
was received, and default notice was duly served in November 2020.
In these circumstances, I think Hitachi acted reasonably in issuing the default notice. This 
notice set out that it was believed the contract had been breached because the car was not 
insured, and it was not under Mr As possession and control. The notice said that the lease 
would be terminated unless proof was provided of both the insurance and that the car was in 
Mr As possession, within the next 14 days. 
A few days after the date to produce the proof required expired contact was made on Mr As 
behalf by a relative who said Mr A had the required insurance certificate. However, what was 
provided was an insurance proposal which appeared to have been made after the default 
notice had been sent. I think Hitachi acted reasonably in informing Mr A that the 
repossession of the vehicle would be enforced as the proof requested by it hadnt been 
produced. 
Mr A then provided a certificate of insurance that covered a three-month period that had 
expired. Hitachi told Mr A that, again, this wasnt the required certificate and that the car was 
being repossessed. It also raised concerns with Mr A that, despite him being informed he no 
longer had authority to use the car and that it must be kept at his address, the collecting 
agents had reported the car wasnt there. It asked Mr A to contact the collecting agents.
Mr A then provided Hitachi with a copy of a schedule of an insurance policy that covered the 
vehicle from the date the three-month certificate had ended. Hitachi pointed out that this 
document was not the requested insurance certificate. I cant reasonably say that Hitachi 
acted unreasonably when it declined to accept the insurance schedule in place of the 
insurance certificate, as these are two different documents. It is the certificate which proves 
there is valid insurance in place, not the schedule, and I think Hitachi had been clear as to 
what it required. Looking at the Road Traffic Act 1988 this sets out that a policy of insurance 
shall have no effect until a certificate is delivered. So, I think Hitachi was entitled to reject 
the schedule and Ive seen that it did tell Mr A he hadnt produced the insurance certificate 
as required.
Looking at the communications between Hitachi and Mr A, I think Hitachi was very clear as 
to the concerns it had in respect of the car, and the breaches it suspected had taken place.  
These concerns were more than just the car being uninsured, but also about how the car 
had been found by the police, that payments for the agreement were coming from a bank 
account that wasnt in Mr As name. and a suspicion that Mr A wasnt the person using the 
car. Ive seen that Mr A didnt provide the required certificate insurance within the time limit 
provided, nor does he appear to have provided it when that time limit was extended.The email sent to Mr A in December 2020, set out one final opportunity to provide the valid 
certificate, signed confirmation as the car being in his possession, bank details for a new DD 
to be set up and photos of the car. Mr A did not respond to this.
I think there was enough evidence for Hitachi to reasonably find that it was more likely than 
not that the agreements terms had been breached, and these breaches were more than the 
car not being comprehensively insured. I think Hitachi was entitled to take the action that it 
did by repossessing the car and ending the agreement.
Mr A has raised the deposit of £2,450 that he paid and has asked that it is reimbursed. 
However, this payment wasnt a deposit but was an initial payment which is actually the first 
rental payment. As the agreement was terminated early then I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for that amount to be repaid to Mr A. This amount can be retained by Hitachi 
under the agreements terms and conditions.
Mr A has not raised a complaint regarding the invoice from Hitachi for the damage found on 
the car. I did provide Mr A with more time to correspond with me about that, but he hasnt 
replied, so I havent therefore looked at that issue and have presumed that he accepts the 
damage was found as described and the charges were fair.
Mr A has asked that any adverse information about this agreement is removed from his 
credit file. As I dont think Hitachi has done anything wrong in repossessing the car and 
applying the charges in line with agreements terms and conditions, Im not going to ask it to 
do that. I think its fair and reasonable for information as to how Mr A has managed this 
credit account to be recorded on his credit file. Hitachi are under an obligation to provide this 
factual information to the credit reference agencies.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
 
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman