DRN-3476024
The complaint
Miss N complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Miss N has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having
been with, and from, Miss N herself.
Miss N was given 2 loans by AvantCredit. She borrowed £8000 in November 2015 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months. She repaid this loan in December 2016. Miss N then 
took out a second loan with AvantCredit in August 2018. She borrowed £5000 and was due 
to repay this over 36 months. When Miss N made her complaint to AvantCredit, she had a 
balance to repay from this second loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Miss N hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not upholding her 
complaint about loan 1. So, I dont need to say anymore about loan 1 other than Ive 
reviewed this loan and have independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that AvantCredit shouldnt have provided this loan. 
So, I am not upholding this part of Miss Ns complaint. 
I will now focus on whether AvantCredit did anything wrong when it agreed to give Miss N 
loan 2. 
AvantCredit gathered some information from Miss N before it agreed to the first loan. It 
asked Miss N about her income and expenditure. It verified Miss Ns income using an online 
tool. It also carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. It 
checked Miss Ns financial history through its credit search and looked to see whether she 
had previously had any problems with repaying credit.
Miss N was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is right that AvantCredit 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Ns 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim. I think AvantCredits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what AvantCredit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a 
fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that AvantCredit conducted. The search showed that Miss 
N had 3 credit cards, a home credit account, a mail order account and a loan. She had total 
unsecured debt of around £17,400, a not insignificant sum. I think AvantCredit ought to have 
had concern about the amount of debt Miss N had and also as our investigator mentioned in 
their view, the amount of available credit she had utilised, this being at around 93%. 
Our investigator also mentioned in his view that Miss N had payment problems during the 
time she repaid loan 1. AvantCredit has responded and said this is to do with the payment 
method used by Miss N and that she was paying by card each month. It says Miss N paid on 
time and the system notes only reflect the fact she called up and paid on her card. I have 
looked into this and although I can see what the investigator is referring to  missed 
payments recorded on the system notes - I think what AvantCredit has said is plausible. 
Miss N makes her repayment on the same day the instalments are due to be paid. So, on 
seeing this, I am currently minded to conclude that AvantCredits explanation for the 
payment issues is what happened here. 
I can also see from AvantCredits system notes that it verified Miss Ns income at that time 
as £2800 a month. It recorded down her bills as £549 and credit commitments as £1114, a 
buffer of £100, the new loan repayment as around £220 and then disposable income of 
around £717. These calculations are headed up on the day of it approving the loan as for 
use by prime underwriting only. So, I think these are the calculations it used in its 
assessment as to whether to lend to Miss N or not. I say this, as AvantCredit has recently 
sent in a submission to our service with a different set of figures for how it would have 
assessed Miss Ns application at that time, including that the customer declared her 
expenditure to be £778 and that her credit commitment after the loan repayment would be 
around £924. I would be minded at this stage to rely on AvantCredits system note as it was 
recorded down on the day the application was made and seems to have been used to 
assess and agree to lend to Miss N. 
But in any case, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned whether it knew enough 
about Miss Ns finances from the information shed provided to make a fair lending decision. 
I think it is likely that Miss Ns normal expenditure was higher than the £549 she had 
declared (and what AvantCredit noted down on its system). So, I think AvantCredit should 
have dug deeper into Miss Ns finances before it agreed the loan. Especially as she had 
accrued a relatively large amount of unsecured debt and was close to maxed out on 
available credit. But this doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld. Id need to be 
persuaded that those further checks would have led to the loan application being declined.
Our service, in September 2021, asked Miss N for copies of her bank statements from the 
time. This is so we could see what the additional information might have shown AvantCredit.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that
AvantCredit should have carried out. I do think AvantCredit needed additional information to
support what Miss N said was happening with her finances. And looking at her bank 
statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that 
level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Hs bank statements I 
could get a good idea of what additional checks might have shown.
Miss N has been unable to provide those statements to us. So, I am unable to determine 
what her financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. That means I cant say that if 
AvantCredit had completed additional checks it wouldve found that Miss N couldnt afford to 
repay the loans. So, I cant reasonably conclude that this loan shouldnt have been agreed.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss N. But without evidence of what 
her financial situation was like at the time loan 2 was agreed, I cannot currently conclude
that AvantCredit lent to her in an irresponsible manner. Of course, if Miss N is able to 
provide copies of her bank statements from the time, I will reconsider my decision. But 
based on the information I currently hold I dont think her complaint should be upheld. 
In conclusion, I dont think AvantCredit did anything wrong when it agreed to loan 1. And 
although I do think AvantCredit should have reacted to the information it gathered for loan 2 
and carried out further checks, I havent been able to see what those checks would have 
shown. So, I am unable to uphold Miss Ns complaint about loans 1 and 2.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Miss N and AvantCredit did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman