DRN-3402377
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs O complains about the administration by Meteor Investment 
Management Ltd (Meteor) of Income Plans she took out in 2015 and 2016. It complains that 
Meteor didnt inform the estate that the later plan matured early, in 2018.
What happened
The late Mrs O took out income plans in 2015 and 2016, both with a term of six years. 
Meteor was the provider of those plans.
In March 2018 the late Mrs O sadly passed away. 
On 12 April 2018, before it had been informed of her death, Meteor wrote to Mrs O to inform 
her that it looked likely her 2016 plan, the Quarterly Contingency Income Plan, would mature 
early, in April 2018. 
The estate wrote to Meteor, to notify it of the death of Mrs O, in a letter dated 18 April and 
received on 20 April.
Meteor sent information about the value of the plans to the estate on 20 April 2018. 
The 2016 plan matured shortly after, in May 2018, and the proceeds remained in cash and 
uninvested. 
The grant of probate for Mrs Os estate was obtained in July 2019. 
On around 14 April 2021 a third-party business wrote to the estate to inform it that the 2015 
plan was due to mature shortly, on 26 April 2021.
At the end of April 2021, the estate contacted Meteors helpline to ask about the income 
plans and was informed that the 2016 plan had matured early.
Shortly after, the estate complained to Meteor and said it had failed to notify it that the 2016 
plan had matured several years earlier. It also said that no reminder letters had been sent 
after the plan had matured notifying the estate that the matured funds were being held in an 
account. 
The 2015 income plan remained invested until its maturity and the proceeds of both plans 
were paid out at the beginning of May 2021.
Meteor didnt uphold the estates complaint. It acknowledged that the estate hadnt received 
any further information about the 2016 plan after 20 April 2018, but it said the proceeds 
couldnt have been obtained without the grant of probate, which wasnt issued until July 
2019. 
Meteor said it was the estates responsibility to contact Meteor and provide it with a copy of 
the grant of probate. It also said it was reasonable to expect the estate to have contacted 
Meteor to find out why it hadnt received any information about the plans. 
Meteor said if it had been contacted by the estate, then it would have informed it that the 
income plan had matured.  
The estate of the late Mrs O disagreed with Meteor and referred its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted that 
Meteor had written to Mrs O in April, prior to being notified of her death, to inform her that 
her 2016 plan was likely to mature early, in April 2018. The investigator thought it was 
reasonable for Meteor to conclude that the estate was already aware of the information it 
had sent to Mrs O, when it wrote to Meteor on 18 April 2018. 
The investigator noted that the estate couldnt have taken any action in respect of the plan 
until the grant of probate was obtained in July 2019, in any event.  She said when the estate  
received the grant of probate it was responsible for dealing with the assets of the estate. The 
investigator said as these income plans were part of Mrs Os estate, she was of the view that 
it was the estates responsibility to contact Meteor once it had received that document.
Overall, the investigator didnt consider that Meteor had acted incorrectly in the 
circumstances. 
The estate disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said it didnt have a copy of 12 
April 2018 letter and questioned whether it had been sent. It noted no similar letter had been 
sent when the 2015 income plan had matured, in April 2021. 
The estate reiterated its view that there had been a lack of communication from Meteor after 
Mrs O had passed away. It noted that the six-month statements in respect of the matured 
plan had been inaccessible and that no maturity information had been provided in April 2021 
in respect of the 2015 plan.
The estate referred to sections of the 20 April 2018 letter which said:
 The plan will continue as described in the Terms and Conditions pending instruction from 
the executors or administrators of the estate and 
Should you have any queries or require further information, please do not hesitate to 
contact our Administration Department.
The estate said its actions had been guided by the information which had been available, 
which it said, in effect, had been very limited. 
It referred to FCA principles 6 (customers' interests) and 7 (communications with clients). It 
said that Meteor had largely delegated its communication responsibilities to its computer 
systems. It noted there was a financial inducement to opt for online-only communications 
and the benefits of an online account were highlighted by Meteor in its literature.
The estate said that it had a right to information and that Meteor had a duty to provide it.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O sadly passed away on 10 March 2018.Unaware that she had passed away, Meteor wrote to Mrs O on 12 April and indicated that 
her 2016 plan was likely to mature early, and specifically that early maturity could be 
triggered in April 2018. It also stated that if the 2016 plan wasnt going to mature early, 
Meteor would write to Mrs O to confirm it would continue. 
Meteor also said it had sent the maturity paperwork for her account to a third-party business 
and it had asked that business to contact Mrs O regarding the maturity.  
The estate then notified Meteor of Mrs Os death by way of a letter dated 18 April 2018 and 
received by Meteor on 20 April 2018. 
I think it is reasonable to conclude that the estate shouldve been able to access the 12 April 
2018 letter, within a few weeks of it being received, because it was sent to the late Mrs Os 
address shortly after she passed away and the estate was dealing with her affairs. Although 
it appears that unfortunately it wasnt seen by the estate and so it wasnt aware that it was 
likely the 2016 income plan would mature early.  
Meteor wrote to the estate on 20 April 2018 with information about both income plans. As the 
administrator of the plan it had to provide information that was clear, fair, and not misleading. 
The estate says that letter should have warned it of the impending maturity of the 2016 plan. 
However, I note Meteors letter was sent in response to a request for a valuation of the plans 
at the date of death, which it provided. And at that point, the 2016 plan hadnt matured which 
I think is why the maturity wasnt mentioned in the letter. So, I dont think the information it 
provided was misleading. In addition, I note the request from the estate hadnt specifically 
asked for information about the maturity dates.  
After that letter was sent, no further information was forthcoming from Meteor about the 2016 
plan. Meteor did provide six-monthly statements for Mrs Os plans, but these had to be 
accessed via her online account, which meant the estate would be unable to access them 
and indeed it wouldnt even be aware that they existed.  
I appreciate this plan was set up to be an online product and the terms and conditions set 
out that information and correspondence could be provided in an electronic format. So, in the 
normal course of events I wouldnt expect Meteor to have sent correspondence by post.  
However, I dont think it would be unreasonable to have expected Meteor to have sent  
statements issued after April 2018 to the estate by post, given the plan holder, Mrs O, was 
deceased. I also dont think it would be unreasonable to have expected it to have sent letters 
to the estate reminding it that the plan had matured. However, I have to consider whether 
this was the cause of the plan remaining disinvested after it matured and also what I would 
reasonably have expected the estate to do in the circumstances. 
In addition, it appears there was a third-party business through which the late Mrs O 
arranged her investments.  It also had a role to play with regards to the maturity of Mrs Os 
2016 income plan. I can see from the letter of 12 April 2018 that that third-party business 
had been copied in on its contents and Meteor said it had sent that third party the maturity 
paperwork. So, it appears that business shouldve been in contact with Mrs O and 
subsequently the estate. It may be however that it wasnt aware that Mrs O had passed 
away and so wasnt aware of the estates involvement at that stage. 
 
Grant of probate
As Meteor, and the investigator have pointed out  the proceeds of the income plan couldnt 
have been paid out to the estate until the grant of probate had been obtained and provided 
to Meteor. I am satisfied that Meteor had made that clear in its letter of 20 April 2018. So, 
even if statements and reminder letters had been sent to the estate before that date, the 
estate wouldnt have been able to obtain the proceeds. Meteor says that the estate should have contacted Meteor when it obtained the grant of 
probate. From the estates point of view both these plans had six-year terms and werent due 
to mature for several years, and it wasnt aware of the 12 April 2018 letter, so I consider it 
took the view that it had no reason to contact Meteor.
A reminder letter or updated statement might have prompted the estate to contact Meteor to 
ask for the maturity proceeds earlier than it did. However, I have to take into account that by 
July 2019, when the grant of probate was obtained and action could be taken, nothing had 
been received by the estate about these plans since April 2018. So, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect the estate to contact Meteor and ask it for some information or an 
update regarding the plans. And if it had done so, I think it more likely than not that Meteor 
would have informed the estate that the 2016 plan had already matured. On that basis I am 
not persuaded on balance that Meteor was the cause of the 2016 plan being disinvested 
from July 2019, when the grant of probate was obtained, to May 2021.
Summary 
I am satisfied that Meteor wrote to the late Mrs O in April 2018 to inform her that her plan 
was likely to be maturing earlier. I am also satisfied that it answered the request from the 
estate for information about the value of her plans and provided information that was clear 
fair and not misleading. I also think the information provided responded to the request and 
was sufficient in the circumstances.
As I have said, I think Meteor could have gone further to keep the estate informed about the 
status of the 2016 plan, however the proceeds of the plan couldnt be paid out until July 
2019, and Im not persuaded on balance that this caused the plan to be disinvested from 
July 2019 to May 2021. So, I am not asking it to do anything further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Os complaint against Meteor 
Investment Management Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of     
Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman