DRN-3195000
The complaint
Mrs R, through her representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs R complained in early May 2020 and LAH issued its final response (FRL) to her 
complaint in February 2021. In that FRL it set out a loan table for each of the approved 
loans. Mrs R was given 62 loans in all from February 2009 to October 2018. As both Mrs R 
and LAH have this information I have not duplicated that loan table here. The loans were 
taken sequentially and often Mrs R had overlapping loans. This represents nine and a half 
years of continuous lending. 
In the FRL, LAH said that the first 24 loans were ones which it considered were Time 
Barred, as it maintained that the complaint date of May 2020 meant that any loans approved 
before early May 2014 were out of our jurisdiction and not ones it needed to investigate. 
Loan 25 was approved late May 2014. Of the loans after that, loans 25 to 62, it did look at 
them and wrote in its FRL that it did not uphold any of Mrs Rs complaint. 
Of the ones LAH considered Time Barred, our adjudicator applied the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules which apply and thought that we could look at them all. And LAH 
disagreed with the adjudicators view on jurisdiction. LAH did not have any further 
information about those loans to send to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the merits of the complaint as well and thought that LAH should 
put things right for Mrs R on loans 5 to 62 which meant from 2 December 2010 onwards. 
LAH has written back about the jurisdiction element and a second view was issued by our 
adjudicator to confirm the first view, as well as informing LAH that the case would be passed 
to an ombudsman for both jurisdiction and merits to be considered. 
Mrs Rs representative acknowledged the adjudicators view and appears not to have 
disagreed with it. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs R and LAH to 
decide whether we can look at all loans being complained about. 
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the 
power to consider all the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mrs R) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. The exact wording is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can 
be found online in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 24 were complained about more than six years after they were taken as 
Mrs Rs letter to LAH was early May 2020. However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
Mrs R was aware or ought to have been aware more than three years before she raised this 
complaint, that she had reason to complain. LAH has said that when Mrs R experienced 
repayment problems from 2009 onwards and struggled to repay the lending this shouldve 
led her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this case to 
demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and struggling to repay the 
lending would no doubt have led Mrs R to realise there was a problem (in terms of the 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made them 
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans. LAH has had decisions about this aspect before. 
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs R was or should have been aware 
earlier of her cause to complain more than three years before she did complain. 
LAH has cited other cases but as well as the overall approach by this Service that all cases 
are considered individually, I have reviewed those two cases to which LAH have referred 
me. One has not received an ombudsmans decision and as such is not definitive. And the 
other has had a second view issued which is in line with our general approach to jurisdiction 
matters. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 1 to 24 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them all. Ill now go on and consider whether I think 
all the 62 loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.  LAH has received 
many decisions from this Service about irresponsible lending and so my summary here is 
brief.
 
I note that some loans were approved by LAH when the relevant guidance for lenders was 
before the FCA was the regulator. Im familiar with the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible 
Lending Guide (ILG) issued in March 2010. Under the guidance given by the OFT, 
businesses should make sure they have made reasonable enquires to ensure they have lent 
responsibly. The OFT ILG was the foundation of the rules going forward in the FCA 
Consumer Credit Source book (CONC) and often sections of the ILG were cited in those 
rules.
Our adjudicator thought that LAH should put things right from December 2010 (loan 5) and 
as Mrs Rs representative has not disagreed with that outcome then I am proceeding on the 
basis that loans 1 to 4 are not disputed. And so, the relevant guidelines were a combination 
of the OFT ILG plus the FCA CONC regulations for Mrs Rs loans from loan 5 onwards.
 In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint. 
Loan 5 was approved when the previous loan had taken Mrs R 58 weeks to clear rather than 
the scheduled 32. And the ones before that had been repaid late. By Loan 5 Mrs R had been 
indebted to LAH for ten months. And LAH has told us that she had already started to receive 
arrears letters from it. So, LAH was aware of her arrears. 
I think LAH was aware Mrs R was having trouble managing her money and so I agree with 
our adjudicator in relation to this loan and I uphold Loan 5. I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 6 onwards because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending 
history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LAH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LAH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
Mrs R had taken out six loans over an approximately two year period. I think this is a 
long time to be using this type of credit. 
The amounts Mrs R borrowed varied. There were some occasions when she was 
approved for loans of around £840 or the multiple loans approved on the same day 
amounted to around that figure. I think its reasonable to say her indebtedness didnt 
generally decrease. 
Mrs R was generally provided with a new loan within a short time of settling a 
previous one and often Mrs R was being approved for more than one loan in a day. 
The loans were sequential and often overlapped. 
LAH has informed us, and I can see from its historic data bureau records, that it knew 
in 2017 that Mrs R had a County Court Judgment (CCJ). This was likely a Judgment 
dating back to February 2015 (the LAH records say that it was 24 months old in 
February 2017) and as CCJs are matters of public record I think its highly likely that 
LAH was aware, or ought to have been aware of that CCJ from around 
February 2015. That would have translated to be around loan 35. 
A CCJ indicates that Mrs R had been in debt to that other lender for a long time for it 
to have got to the stage where a Judgment was obtained. And certainly would be an 
alert to any other lender that Mrs R was not handling her finances well. 
So, LAH ought to have known that Mrs R was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. And it ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mrs Rs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Mrs R had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LAH over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out because LAH approved loans 6 to 62 because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 6 to 62 as well as loan 5 and LAH should 
put things right.Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs R from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs R in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs R loans 5 to 62.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should pay any remaining refund to Mrs R. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LAH to pursue 
this further.
D) As loan 5 was in 2010 then its not going to appear on Mrs Rs personal credit file as that 
was over six years ago, and so I make no direction on any amendment of her credit file for 
that loan. 
In relation to loans 6 to 62, some of which may remain on Mrs Rs credit file still, then 
I consider that the overall pattern of Mrs Rs borrowing means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so LAH should remove loans 6 to 62 entirely from Mrs Rs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted if she asks for one.
  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part and I direct that S.D. Taylor 
Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman