DRN-2701896
The complaint
Mr B and Miss D have complained about Connells Limited in relation to mortgage brokerage 
services. Specifically, they are unhappy that they paid a £499 fee for lifetime mortgage 
services, because they say they dont know what benefits are included in this membership. 
They would like the £499 fee to be refunded. Mr B has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr B and Miss D were purchasing a property for which they needed a 
mortgage and they arranged this through Connells. 
Mr B and Miss D paid two fees to Connells. There was a lifetime broker fee of £499. This 
was to cover mortgage advice, assistance with completing application forms for the 
mortgage and any ancillary products (such as mortgage- or property-related insurances). 
There was also a £99 administration fee which Connells has explained relates to the 
additional work required on an application, such as collation of documents, liaison with the 
lender and solicitors, rather than financial advice which is covered in the £499 lifetime fee.
The purchase and mortgage completed in 2017. In 2019 Mr B and Miss D arranged a 
remortgage through Connells. As theyd already paid the lifetime fee of £499 there was no 
charge for the mortgage advice, but there was a £99 administrative fee payable.
In June 2020 Mr B complained to Connells about the lifetime broker service. Initially he 
asked if Connells was still his mortgage broker as he was a lifetime member, and enquired 
about the benefits. Connells was confirmed that the benefits (in addition to lifetime mortgage 
advice) were:
£100 if friends or family were recommended to Connells and they used Connells for their 
mortgage;
money off conveyancing fees on his next purchase;
money off agency fees if they sold their property through Connells estate agency (a 
separate business from the mortgage brokerage).
Mr B asked for a copy of the signed membership agreement, which was sent to him. Mr B 
also said that he was told in 2017 that he had to pay the £499 fee in order to use Connells 
mortgage broker service but he has since found out that this wasnt true.
Connells didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that Mr B and Miss D had been provided 
with documents outlining the services offered by Connells and the fees involved in February 
2017. Mr B and Miss D had agreed to this and had also used the service again in 2019. 
Connells said it was not prepared to refund the fee.
Dissatisfied with Connells response, Mr B referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, and asked both Mr B and 
Connells for further information. Mr B expanded on the issues about which he was unhappy. 
Mr B said that, in response to his request about membership benefits, hed received a 
response which was vague. 
Mr B also said that hed never received a welcome letter or a membership card in the post, 
and thought emails from Connells sent in February 2017 had been faked, in particular the 
email which had sent the Key Facts document about the lifetime membership, and which 
had also attached the mortgage illustration and statement of needs and demands in relation 
to insurance services. Mr B was also unhappy that, when he and Miss D purchased their 
property in 2017 the estate agent dealing with the property was involved in the housing 
chain.
Our investigator explained that we dont look at complaints about estate agents, and referred 
Mr B and Miss D to an alternative dispute resolution service for this part of their complaint.
As far as the complaint about the lifetime fee was concerned, the investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld. She was satisfied the documentation provided in 2017 was clear about 
the service Mr B and Miss D would receive. The investigator found no evidence Connells 
had falsified emails. She also noted that, after the transaction completed in February 2017, 
Mr B and Miss D completed a customer satisfaction survey confirming the information about 
the lifetime service (including the benefits) had been fully explained to them. The investigator 
noted Mr B and Miss D had been given mortgage advice by Connells at least twice, and so 
she could see no basis on which the lifetime fee should be reimbursed.
The investigator was satisfied that the two £99 administration fees paid by Mr B and Miss D 
in 2017 and 2019 covered the administrative work required for the mortgage and remortgage 
applications. She didnt think these fees should be refunded.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that if the investigator could get any 
proof that the Key Facts document had been sent to him, the investigation was biased. Mr B 
raised a number of queries about a particular email dated 7 February 2017, wondering why it 
was in a different format to other emails and why it had been sent three days after the client 
declaration had been signed. Mr B also said hed never been issued with any reference 
number, nor any form of evidence that he had a lifetime membership.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted all the queries Mr B has raised about what he 
claims is a faked email, its not my role to put his questions to Connells or act as his go-
between to assist him in compiling his evidence on this complaint.
Connells has provided contemporaneous records from its systems, that is, records compiled 
at the time of the events complained of. Im satisfied I can rely on these as being an accurate 
record of what was recorded on its system at the time. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B and Miss D say they werent given any information in 
2017 about the benefits to them of the lifetime membership scheme. Ive noted Mr Bs 
concerns about what he claims to be a falsified email sent to his email address to which Connells attached the Key Facts document about the lifetime membership. This email also 
contained the mortgage illustration and information about insurance products. Mr B says 
there is no evidence of this email having been received by him.
After reviewing the file, I think its more likely than not that this email was sent. I think its 
implausible that Mr B and Miss D would have gone ahead with the mortgage in 2017 if theyd 
received no information about the product. Mr B has not suggested that he and Miss D 
werent provided with the mortgage illustration, and as this was sent in the same email, Im 
persuaded, on the basis of the evidence, that it is more likely than not that they did receive 
the email.
I appreciate Mr Bs main concern is that, because he says he didnt receive a membership 
number, there is something untoward in him and Miss D having taken out the lifetime 
membership. I think this is something of a red herring  in other words, it distracts from the 
main issue in the complaint. I say this because, whether or not Mr B and Miss D received a 
membership number in 2017 (and I dont know if they did or did not), it isnt relevant to Mr B 
and Miss Ds ability to use their lifetime membership.
Thats because, even if they werent able to give Connells their membership number, it didnt 
prevent them from taking advantage of their lifetime membership again in February 2019, 
when they arranged a new mortgage through Connells. And Ive already explained that I 
think its more likely than not that Mr B and Miss D did receive the information about the 
lifetime membership at the same time they received their mortgage illustration.
The documentation signed in February 2017 creates a binding contract between Mr B and 
Miss D and Connells. For a fee of £499 they will receive lifetime mortgage advice and 
assistance. As Mr B and Miss D have received mortgage advice twice from Connells under 
the terms of this contract, I can see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Connells to refund the £499 fee, either in whole or in part. Mr B says hes since found out 
that he didnt need to pay the fee. However, the service Connells offers comes with the £499 
lifetime fee. Because Mr B and Miss D decided to arrange their mortgage with Connells, the 
fee was payable, and gives Mr B and Miss D access to lifetime mortgage advice.
Im also satisfied that it is reasonable for Connells to charge a £99 administration fee each 
time for the work involved in processing Mr B and Miss Ds mortgage applications. Given 
this, I am not ordering Connells to refund the two £99 fees paid in 2017 and 2019 either.
Connells provided Mr B with an explanation of what was included in the benefits in June 
2020 in answer to his query about this point, and I set out the information he was given 
earlier in this decision. Although Mr B thinks this answer from Connells was vague, Im 
satisfied that it is not at all vague or unclear. It is concise and precise.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a forensic auditing service, and we have no 
obligation to analyse Connells IT systems at Mr Bs request in order to satisfy his concerns 
about whether or not an email was sent by Connells or received by him. Were not a court, 
and so although I understand how strongly Mr B feels about this particular issue, if he 
requires an IT professional to analyse Connells email system, he would need to pursue this 
through the courts. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. I dont underestimate his strength of 
feeling and I doubt anything I have said above will change Mr Bs mind about the notion that 
he thinks Connells has faked an email, not given him a membership number and hasnt told 
him what the benefits of the lifetime membership are.  But Mr B and Miss D arent under any obligation to accept my decision if they disagree with it. If they decide not to accept my 
decision, it wont be legally-binding on them or Connells and Mr B and Miss D will be free to 
pursue their grievances against Connells in court, should they wish to do so. I would suggest 
Mr B and Miss D take legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any court 
proceedings, as the cost of taking legal action might exceed the £499 fee which Mr B wants 
Connells to refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman