DRN-1757142
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hadnt opened the accounts he wanted, because it 
said he hadnt sent it acceptable proof of his address.
What happened
Mr C told us he wanted to open a number of savings accounts with HSBC. It asked him for 
further information, including specific documents to prove his address. It wouldnt open his 
accounts for him, because he hadnt provided appropriate proofs of address.
Mr C doesnt live in the UK, but he does have a bank account with HSBC UK, as well as with 
another bank in the HSBC group, based closer to his residence. Mr C said hed had his 
account with HSBC UK for about ten years. It was still active, and he still lived at the same 
address that HSBC held for that account. So he didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC to 
ask for proof of address now.
 
Mr C said that the account he has with the overseas bank in the HSBC group also uses the 
same address for him as HSBC UK. He didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC UK to treat 
him differently to how this related, overseas bank did. 
Mr C said hed submitted what should be acceptable proofs of his home address. But they 
hadnt been accepted. And he hadnt had to submit proofs of address when he opened his 
last account, in 2017, so he didnt think he should have to now, when he was just investing a 
similar amount of money.
He said that HSBC wasnt being reasonable, it was just covering up its incompetence in 
processing his applications. He thought HSBC should accept the proofs hes got. 
Mr C said he had lost out on interest on the accounts he wanted to open, because his proof 
of address wasnt accepted. He was concerned that HSBC will also stop or delay future 
applications by asking for more information. 
Mr C wanted HSBC to apologise for the inappropriate and unfriendly attitude of its staff, 
reimburse him for lost interest, and compensate him for the time and effort hed spent 
complaining. 
HSBC said that it hadnt changed its mind. It has told Mr C that there are very few 
documents it will accept from overseas customers to prove their identity. It had offered to 
backdate interest on his accounts if it took a little longer to open them, because Mr C needed 
to send it additional documents. And HSBC also said it wont usually accept a document 
from any bank within the HSBC group, but in this case, it would. But Mr C hadnt sent the 
documents it needed. So HSBC said it wouldnt open Mr Cs accounts.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC started to write 
to its customers in 2017 as part of a know your customer exercise. HSBC asked customers 
to provide personal information, sometimes including about their finances. It was required to 
do this as part of obligations on regulated financial businesses to have suitable systems for 
identifying customers. These regulations apply to new and existing customers. 
Our Investigator said, having reviewed why HSBC was asking for proofs, he thought HSBC 
had made a legitimate business commercial decision, for regulatory reasons. He didnt think 
that HSBCs request was unfair. 
The proof of address Mr C sent wasnt accepted by HSBC, but it wasnt one of the 
documents HSBC says it will accept. It would accept a bank statement in a specific format. 
Our investigator thought, as this was being used to prove identity, that it wasnt 
unreasonable to ask for something that had been delivered to Mr Cs home. 
Our investigator knew that Mr C had been a customer of HSBC for some time, but he said 
proofs can be requested from existing customers as well as new ones. And the process for 
HSBC UK isnt the same as for Mr Cs overseas bank. The underlying rules that the bank is 
seeking to comply with may be different in different countries, so our investigator thought this 
wasnt unreasonable. And our service isnt a regulator, we cant ask HSBC to change its 
processes for customer identification.
 
Our investigator didnt think the emails from HSBC were unfriendly or inappropriate. Hed 
also listened to a call recording with HSBC. 
Our investigator said we cant comment on future applications. He could understand Mr Cs 
worry, and financial loss, but he still didnt think the bank was being unreasonable.  
Mr C didnt agree. He thought he might have updated his details since 2017. He thought he 
must have done this, because hed opened another account since then. He wanted us to ask 
HSBC about this.
Mr C says HSBC is still writing to him at the address it holds for him. And he was replying to 
HSBCs letters. If HSBC doubted his address, it shouldnt keep using it, or continuing to 
allow him to make transactions on his accounts. 
Mr C says HSBC knows where the money is coming from. It doesnt need to be concerned 
about that. 
Mr C said he cant get anything on the list of acceptable proofs of address, because he 
doesnt live in the UK. He claimed that neither HSBC UK nor his overseas bank issue paper 
statements now. And he said if he wasnt living at the address that his mail was sent to, he 
wouldnt be able to get it, so he thinks the proof he offered should be accepted. He thinks 
HSBC should be more open-minded.
Mr C said that his overseas bank is linked to the UK one, so HSBC UK should be able to 
verify him with his overseas bank. But the staff in the UK were refusing to use common 
sense. And it wasnt reasonable to take so long after his applications, to tell him about 
requirements for additional proofs of address. If HSBC had emailed about this promptly, that 
wouldve been easier and quicker. 
Mr C closed by saying that HSBC had been unnecessarily bureaucratic. He could provide 
some proof of his address if that was necessary, but he was concerned HSBC would use 
this as an excuse. He said he hadnt been treated fairly.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said we cant look at what wouldve been done in 
2017 when Mr Cs previous account was opened. And we cant guess at what might be done 
in the future if he applies for other accounts. HSBC was entitled to ask for this information. 
Our service didnt think that was unreasonable. And we wouldnt look into the  source of Mr 
Cs funds. Our investigator suggested Mr C could order a statement from his local bank, to be posted to 
him. Our investigator said HSBC UK wasnt making a mistake by asking for proofs of 
address. And it hadnt singled Mr C out for different treatment. Our investigator appreciated 
Mr C hadnt been told straight away that he needed to send further proofs of his address, but 
he thought this might just take longer to sort out, as Mr C lives overseas. 
Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC UK has asked Mr C to prove his address. Thats not an unusual request. UK Banks 
do need to carry out checks on their customers from time to time, for regulatory reasons set 
out in UK law. Thats not an unreasonable thing for HSBC to do. 
I dont know if Mr C has sent similar proofs of address before. He has suggested that this 
may not have been required in 2017, but also wanted us to ask HSBC if he had sent these 
proofs then, in case it was required then. Ive not asked HSBC about that, because the 
answer to this wouldnt change my view. Whether or not HSBC asked Mr C to prove his 
address in 2017, when he opened a savings account, it can still ask for this proof now. 
I know that HSBC took a little time to tell Mr C that it would need proof of address. Like our 
investigator, I think that this may have taken a little longer because Mr C lives overseas. I 
also think its relevant that HSBC offered, if Mr C provided the proof of address it needed, to 
backdate interest so he wouldnt lose out.
 
I realise that Mr C is a customer of HSBC, so he says it knows where he lives. I understand 
that Mr C still gets letters from HSBC to his current address. But its also not unusual for a 
bank not to accept documents it has produced as proof of someones address. Banks 
commonly ask for proof of address from another organisation, to help them be a little more 
sure that the person it is dealing with is who they say they are. So thats what HSBC 
originally asked for here. 
HSBC wont usually accept proof of address from another bank in the same group. But Mr 
Cs other bank is in the same group. So HSBC made an exception, and said it would accept 
proof of address from that bank. I think thats a reasonable compromise for HSBC to make. I 
dont think Mr C has shown us that it was just impossible for him to get anything that HSBC 
UK would accept as proof of address. And I dont think HSBC had to accept the documents 
Mr C sent it.
Mr C wanted HSBC to just contact his local bank, and ask it to vouch for him. HSBC thought 
his overseas bank wouldnt just give out that information. I think thats a reasonable 
assumption for HSBC UK to make. Mr C has argued that the UK and overseas banks are all 
the same business, and its possible thats why he thinks that HSBC is being unnecessarily 
obstructive, because it could just ask another part of the same business. But HSBC UK isnt 
the same business as Mr Cs local bank. They are in the same group, but thats not the 
same thing. They are separate businesses, subject to separate national regulations, and 
cant just share information freely between themselves in the way that Mr C suggests. 
Mr C felt HSBC UK had been unfair. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it has. Mr C also said that HSBC UKs staff had been rude to him. Ive listened to a call he had with 
HSBC about this complaint, and read the emails it had sent him, and I dont think HSBC has 
been rude or unprofessional in how its dealt with his complaint. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman