DRN-2866409
The complaint
Mr B and Mr S are unhappy that overpayments they made on their Woolwich-branded 
buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC werent taken into account when the 
interest was calculated.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020, the findings of which stated:
Barclays explained to us when it submitted its business file:
As the mortgage is an interest only Trinity mortgage we should not have set up a 
payment arrangement, we only offer this if the mortgage is made up of a repayment 
element.
When the over payment reaches the account it is held as a prepayment balance, this 
although it does reduce the mortgage balance does not reduce interest or the monthly 
payment, this balance can be used to cover future monthly payments or can be 
refunded to the customer.
We would require a request to capitalise this balance or a request to capitalise all over 
payments to the account which would be recorded on the top line of the notes screen so 
that it is clearly visible. Unless we have this request we would not capitalise funds held 
as prepayment.
But as I explained to Barclays in my email in March, that isnt what the mortgage conditions 
document it has sent us in its defence of this complaint says. Nor was this explained to 
Mr B and Mr S when Barclays set up the overpayment arrangement in 2017.
The mortgage conditions document that Barclays provided as part of its defence to this 
complaint says:
We charge interest on your loan and we charge it every day until you pay your loan off 
in full.
We can calculate interest on what you owe us on a yearly, monthly or daily basis. We 
refer to this as the interest period. The interest period which applies to your loan is set 
out in your Offer Letter. If it isnt, we will calculate your interest on a daily basis.
We add all overpayments you make to your overpayment balance, which is the total 
amount of overpayments you have made in your current mortgage financial year 
(which is 1 January to 31 December unless we notify you otherwise).
Unless your Offer Letter states otherwise you can make overpayments on your loan. 
They will reduce your outstanding loan balance immediately and we will add them to 
your overpayment balance.
The screenprints of the 2005 mortgage offer that Barclays provided doesnt state how 
interest will be calculated, nor does it exclude overpayments. So, in line with the above 
mortgage conditions that means Mr B and Mr S mortgage account should be on daily 
interest and allow overpayments.
It follows, therefore, that in line with the mortgage conditions provided, each day an 
overpayment was made it should have reduced the outstanding loan balance immediately 
and, as interest should have been calculated daily, then interest should have only been 
charged on that new lower balance. As the mortgage statements dont seem to show this is 
what happened, if Barclays has provided the correct mortgage conditions document, it 
seems Mr B and Mr S have been overcharged interest. There are ifs in there because this 
is the dialogue I wanted Barclays to enter into when I asked for its thoughts in March. At 
that time I needed it to tell me if it had provided the wrong documents so I could then look 
at things again based on the correct information.
In any event, even if Barclays does now say it provided the wrong documents to us and 
provides something to show that Mr B and Mr S couldnt overpay on this mortgage to 
reduce their interest, then we go back to the fact that it seems Barclays never told Mr B 
and Mr S that. Instead Barclays accepted an extra £3,000 every month from Mr B and Mr S 
without telling them that extra £36,000 a year would have no impact on the amount of 
interest they would be charged.
Irrespective of whether or not that is how the account should run, Barclays didnt treat Mr B 
and Mr S fairly when it neglected to give them the information they needed to make an 
informed choice about these overpayments.
For example if Barclays had told Mr B and Mr S that they needed to request the 
overpayment be capitalised, rather than just sitting on the account as a pre-payment 
balance without gaining them anything, then Ive no doubt Mr B and Mr S would have made 
that request. But they had no way of knowing they needed to make that request unless 
Barclays told them.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Barclays didnt treat Mr B and Mr S fairly when it 
accepted their overpayments since 2017 without either;
using those immediately to reduce the interest that was being charged, or
telling them they need to request all overpayments be capitalised to the account, or
telling them the overpayments would have no impact on the interest charged so they 
could make an informed decision about what to do.
Whichever way, I uphold this complaint in full.
Fair compensation
Im currently minded to order Barclays to rework the account on the following basis:
Each overpayment should be taken off the balance on the day the overpayment was 
made, with the interest adjusted accordingly in line with a daily interest mortgage.
The calculation should be carried out up to the date of settlement.
Barclays should work on the assumption that Mr B and Mr S would have made exactly 
the same payments as they did.Im also minded to award £500 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset 
caused by this matter, on top of the £150 Barclays had already offered for the delay in 
dealing with the complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr B and Mr S accepted my provisional decision, and Barclays didnt respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my opinion hasnt changed, and Im satisfied with the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision.
To that end, I order Barclays to rework the account on the following basis:
Each overpayment should be taken off the balance on the day the overpayment was 
made, with the interest adjusted accordingly in line with a daily interest mortgage.
The calculation should be carried out up to the date of settlement.
Barclays should work on the assumption that Mr B and Mr S would have made exactly 
the same payments as they did.
Barclays should also pay Mr B and Mr S £500 compensation in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused by this matter, on top of the £150 Barclays had already offered for the 
delay in dealing with the complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle it as Ive laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman