DRN-2223704
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mrs H and Mr H in 
1992. The policy was taken out in Mr Hs name only and he was covered against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs H and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H and Mr Hs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mrs H and Mr H were given a choice to have the 
MPPI policy. This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to 
see the sales documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. Although 
this is understandable due to the many years that have passed since the date of sale. 
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Mrs H and Mr Hs recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mrs H and Mr H and Santander during the meeting. Its completely 
understandable that Mrs H and Mr Hs recollections are not detailed and as I have 
already said the sale took place many years ago. And because of this and considering 
what I know of sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence is 
strong enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional 
feature. I havent, on this occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw that 
conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs H and Mr 
H or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the very limited information provided and 
also taking into consideration what the parties have said, and what I know of Santander 
sales during this time, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr H as the 
sole policy holder. I say this after considering Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale. 
Because, although he says he would have received at least 3 months sick pay, the MPPI 
policy would have paid out in addition to his means and for longer. Having the policy in 
place would mean Mrs H and Mr H could use any provisions they may have had to cover 
other expenses. So, I think he would have found some use by having the cover.
Mr B was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people or policy holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mrs H and Mr H needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear 
information on these terms I dont think it would have put them off. So, I am persuaded 
the policy was suitable for Mr H.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Mrs H and Mr H clear information about the costs of the 
policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mrs H and Mr H would have done anything 
differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable.
Finally, Mrs H and Mr H have said that the policy states the holder should be the main wage 
earner. They say Mr H wasnt and so he wouldnt have been eligible to claim benefit for this 
reason. I have looked into this and can see in the terms given within the certificate of 
insurance that Mr H met the eligibility criteria listed. So, I am satisfied that Mr H would have 
been eligible to claim benefit if he needed to.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman