DRN-4132150
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs C was advanced three loans from Cashfloat, and Ive summarised her borrowing in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 15/06/2021 30/06/2021 3 £140.90
2 £500.00 02/01/2022 31/03/2022 3 £248.65
3 £1,000.00 01/04/2022 29/07/2022 6 £285.45
Cashfloat wrote to Mrs C with a final response letter in October 2022. Cashfloat didnt uphold 
the complaint because its checks showed the loans to be affordable. But as gesture of 
goodwill, it offered Mrs C £100. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs C referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. And 
later, Cashfloat informed the Financial Ombudsman that the gesture of goodwill had been 
withdrawn. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold it. He concluded 
Cashfloat made a reasonable decision to lend loans 1 and 2 because it carried out 
proportionate checks. However, for loan 3, the adjudicator said Cashfloats checks ought to 
have gone further  but as he didnt have any information from Mrs C, he couldnt conclude 
what Cashfloat may have seen had it made better checks.  
Mrs C didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised her responses below:
Cashfloat didnt ask for details of her outgoings or request copies of her bank 
statements. 
Cashfloat didnt adequately assess her affordability. 
Mrs C had to take out other loans to repay these loans and she fell behind with her 
priority bills.
 
The adjudicator explained why these comments hadnt changed his mind and he gave Mrs C 
a further opportunity to provide additional information such as her bank statements.  As no 
agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mrs C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. The adjudicator considered this 
didnt apply to Mrs Cs complaint.  
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs C was able to repay 
her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
There is a break in lending of around six months between Mrs C repaying loan 1 and 
returning for loan 2. Which has led me to conclude that each of these loans are in a separate 
lending chain. The effect in this case is that both loans have been treated as a first loan in a 
new lending chain. 
Before these loans were approved, Cashfloat took details of Mrs Cs income and 
expenditure. Cashfloat recorded that Mrs C worked full time and received a monthly salary of 
£1,775 for loan 1 and £2,100 for loan 2. Cashfloat says the income was checked through a 
third-party report. But in any event, as these were the first loans in each of their respective 
loan chains it was reasonable for it to have relied on what Mrs C had declared. As part of the application process, Mrs C also provided details of other income  Cashfloat 
says this was other household income, but it wasnt used as part of its affordability 
assessment. But Cashfloat says this extra income provided some additional confidence that 
these loans were affordable for Mrs C. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about her living costs, which Mrs C declared as being £1,150 
per month for loan 1 and £1,610 for loan 2. These costs related to food, other credit 
commitments, loan repayments and utilities. Based on the income and expenditure details 
the loans looked affordable. 
Cashfloat says these costs were subject to comparison to figures used by for example a 
well-known debt advice charity and they considered Mrs Cs job, location and homeowner 
status for example. After carrying out this check, Cashfloat was satisfied that the amounts 
she had declared were reasonable and plausible. 
Cashfloat says Mrs Cs application was subjected to a full affordability and creditworthiness 
assessment and the results of this were positive indicating Mrs C could afford the 
repayments.  Based on the income and expenditure information Mrs C declared, Cashfloat 
wouldve been comfortable that she could afford the maximum monthly payment she was 
due to make. 
Cashfloat also says Mrs Cs application scored very highly on our proprietary credit 
scorecard algorithm. Cashfloat used the data it was given to create an internal credit score 
for Mrs C  this was sufficient for it to have granted the loan. Given, what Ive seen and been 
told, I dont think the information Cashfloat was given indicated Mrs C was in financial 
difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Cashfloat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mrs C had provided. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Cashfloat to do any 
more before these loans were approved. 
I am therefore not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Loan 3 
Mrs C successfully repaid loan 2 on time before returning the following day for loan 3. 
She was again asked for the same sort of information as she had been for her previous two 
loans. Mrs C declared she worked for the same employer and had the same income as 
when she applied for loan 2 - £2,100 per month. 
Mrs C declared outgoings of £1,150. This was a decrease on what she declared for loan 2 
despite this loan being granted only three months later. 
However, given the decrease in expenditure of £460 per month, the fact this was her largest 
loan by some way and was due to be repaid over a longer period than her previous two 
loans. I do think those factors ought to have led Cashfloat to do more than just rely on the 
income and expenditure information it received  and the checks it did in relation to that. 
The adjudicator suggested that Cashfloat needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Cs 
actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and I dont disagree with that. 
Cashfloat couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve 
asked for evidence of her outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of Mrs Cs bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain to satisfy itself 
that it had carried out more robust checks. 
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other 
information which Cashfloat mightve needed to consider about Mrs Cs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Cashfloat carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Mrs C couldnt afford her repayments or discovered it was 
likely unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Mrs C has been asked for copy bank statements or other documentation, but Mrs C hasnt 
been able to supply them. Without any documentation I cant make a finding that further 
checks wouldve shown the loan to be either unaffordable or unsustainable for her. I 
therefore cant say Cashfloat made an error when it approved the loan. 
I also dont consider the pattern of Mrs Cs loans or the way she repaid them to have yet 
been of a concern to Cashfloat and so it wouldve likely concluded this loan was harmful for 
her. 
I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about any of her loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman