DRN-4260332
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lex Auto lease Ltd (Lex) applied charges  at the end of his agreement 
that he disputes. He would like these charges waived.  He is also not happy with the way 
that Lex has treated him.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr C incurred a number of charges at the end of his contract. Lex refunded charges 
for damage outside of fair  wear and tear and a missing service history  when Mr C 
provided the service history and queried the evidence for damage. Lex agreed 
photos of damage didnt support the charges. I appreciate one of Mr Cs complaint 
points is that Lex didnt deal with him fairly. In this instance I think it listened to his 
points, changed its view, and rectified the situation so did act reasonably.
Mr C has three outstanding invoices. One for extra days hire at the end of his 
contract. I have seen the contract Mr C signed . That makes it clear that hiring 
continues until car collection is arranged and rentals will continue during this time. As 
I understand Mr Cs agreement started on 10 November 2017 and his car was 
collected on 14 November 2022 I cant see that Lex made any mistake in charging 
him for an additional 4 days of hire according to its terms and conditions. The fact he 
might not have used the car during that time is irrelevant.
In relation to the two invoices for missed payments I agree that the  payment history 
Lex provided wasnt clear. However, I have looked at the transaction history and that 
does show two outstanding payments . Also, I couldnt see any evidence of 
overpayment on the transaction history so I cant agree with Mr C that Lex owes him 
money . From what I have seen I do believe Lex is correct in pursuing Mr C for two 
outstanding payments.
I have seen the correspondence Lex sent Mr C in relation to his outstanding 
payments. The letters are the typical standard letters I would  expect to see. They 
detail amounts owed , the consequences of non-payment and offer support either by 
suggesting contacting the business to discuss repayment options or by giving details 
of organisations that could help. I appreciate any letters regarding debt might be  
upsetting but businesses do need to tell consumers what their position is , what they 
need to do and the consequences of not doing anything. I dont agree the 
correspondence was threatening or harassing .
I appreciate there was some considerable correspondence between Lex and Mr C in 
relation to the charges which caused some frustration for example with a statement 
not being attached to an email. Unfortunately, mistakes can happen,  but Lex did 
apologise which I think was appropriate.
Finally, I appreciate Mr C had another complaint upheld by Lex and I believe he was 
paid some compensation but that doesnt automatically mean this complaint would 
be uphold and compensation paid. Complaints are looked at individually. Based on 
what I have seen  I dont believe Lex is at fault so at fault ,so I cant reasonably ask it 
write off the outstanding debt as Mr C would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman