DRN-3675263
The complaint
Mr A and Miss Y complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused 
to refund them the amount they lost as the result of a scam.
Mr A made the payments related to the scam so I will refer to Mr A throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr A was contacted by an individual via Twitter promising high returns on 
cryptocurrency investments. Mr A was persuaded to invest using a business called 
etalbit.com (E) and made the following payments to the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
Coinbase (CB) that were then forwarded to E.:
1. 6 December 2021  desktop payment - £7,500
2. 7 December 2021  desktop payment - £25,000
3. 7 December 2021  branch payment - £15,000
4. 8 December 2021  desktop payment - £15,500
5. 8 December 2021  debit card payment - £758
6. 10 December 2021  debit card payment - £300
7. 14 December 2021  desktop payment - £1,000
8. 16 December 2021  desktop payment - £17,000
9. 22 December 2021  debit card payment - £600
10. 26 December 2021  desktop payment - £3,000
11. 29 December 2021  desktop payment - £2,000
12. 31 December 2021  debit card payment - £1,000
13. 6 January 2022  desktop payment - £1,900
Mr A was able to see his investments on the E platform but when he attempted to make a 
withdrawal from the account, he was asked to make further deposits and realised he had 
fallen victim to a scam. Mr A has been unable to recover any of the funds he sent to E.
Our Investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt think Halifax was responsible for his 
loss. Mr A disagreed, he said Halifax should have stepped in and prevented the scam from 
taking place. As Mr A disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr A and Halifax set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Halifax should 
refund any of the money Mr A and Miss Y have lost because of this scam.
Halifax was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr A made on his debit card 
in relation to this scam to CB.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr A was dealing with E, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr A didnt 
make the debit card payments to E directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(CB). This is important because Halifax was only able to process chargeback claims against 
the merchant he paid (CB), not another party (such as E).
The service provided by CB would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of Mr As 
payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, CB provided the service that was requested; that 
being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr A paid. As CB provided the 
requested service to Mr A any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr A has accepted he authorised the payments he made to CB via various methods (online 
and in branch transfers and debit card payments), so the starting point here is that Mr A is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr A was making.
Halifax has provided a transcript of all calls that took place between Halifax and Mr A. 
The first payment Mr A made to CB on 6 December 2021 was for £7,500. This payment 
didnt trigger Halifaxs fraud prevention systems. Halifax has explained CB had already been 
setup on Mr As account as a beneficiary so I think Mr A would have thought he could trust 
CB when making payments to it.
The second payment Mr A made (a desktop transfer) on 7 December 2021 for £25,000 was 
stopped by Halifax and a call was completed. The Halifax representative warned about 
cryptocurrency scams and checked that Mr A had paid CB before. The representative also 
checked that the account at CB was in Mr As name which he confirmed it was. This 
payment was then processed as per Mr As request.
The third payment Mr A made to CB was made in branch for £15,000. Halifax has told us 
that it was standard procedure for the Halifax branch representative to complete a high value 
checklist (HVC). The completed checklist is no longer available but on balance I think its 
likely this process would have been followed. The HVC included a warning that would have 
been read out to Mr A warning of potential scams like the one he was falling victim to and 
letting him know that it was likely funds would not be recovered if something went wrong.
Mr A would have had to confirm he had not been contacted by a third-party to make the 
payment before it could be processed. As the payment was processed, I think its likely Mr A confirmed he had not been contacted by a third-party.
The fourth payment Mr A made to CB on 8 December 2021 for £15,500 (a desktop transfer) 
was stopped and a call was completed. A Halifax representative explained that the payment 
had been stopped due to higher than normal risk of being a scam the representative 
explained that he needed to ask some questions and it was important to answer them 
honestly and truthfully.
The representative checked that Mr A had not been contacted by a third-party and asked to 
make the payment. He also checked that the payment was going to an account in Mr As 
own name, which Mr A confirmed it was, and the payment was released.
The fifth and sixth payments Mr A made to CB on 8 and 10 December 2021 were for smaller 
amounts of £758 and £300. These payments werent stopped, but I dont think this is 
unreasonable. The payments were for relatively low amounts to a legitimate business Mr A 
had a history of paying.
The seventh payment Mr A made to CB on 14 December 2021 for £1,000 (a desktop 
transfer) was stopped and a call was completed. After being warned by the Halifax 
representative about potential scams Mr A confirmed he had completed his own research 
into cryptocurrency and that he had not been contacted by a third-party to invest. Mr A briefly 
touched on borrowing money from a friend, but this part of the conversation was not 
elaborated upon. I dont think further questions about borrowing from a friend were 
necessary considering Mr A had already confirmed no third-party involvement.
The eighth payment Mr A made to CB on 16 December 2021 for £17,000 (a desktop 
payment) was stopped and a call was completed. The Halifax representative asked Mr A 
several questions and Mr A explained he had completed his own research and that no one 
else helped him with the investment no I do it all myself, nobody contacts me or helps me 
do the currency I do it all myself.
The Halifax representative checked again that Mr A had not been contacted by a third-party 
to make the payment and he replied, No definitely not. Having answered all of Halifaxs 
questions the payment was processed as requested.
The remaining payments made between 22 December 2021 and 6 January 2022 were of 
lower amounts and were not stopped by Halifaxs fraud prevention systems. But this doesnt 
surprise me. By this time Mr A had made several large payments to CB that had been 
stopped and followed a fraud prevention process before being released. They were also for 
lower amounts spread across several days that I dont think would reasonably have triggered 
Halifaxs fraud prevention systems.
Halifax stepped in every time Mr A attempted to make a significant payment to CB and 
asked relevant questions about them. Mr A was not honest when he answered these 
questions, and the answers he gave overall gave the impression he was making payments 
to CB (a legitimate business) for his own personal investments with no outside influence. So, 
I think it would have been extremely difficult for Halifax to step in and have prevented the 
scam Mr A had fallen victim to. 
Mr A was warned several times that he would be unlikely to recover the funds he was 
sending if something was to go wrong, and that Halifax were seeing a lot of investment 
scams. Yet Mr A ignored these warnings and continued to give inaccurate answers to the 
questions asked by Halifax that were designed to establish when a scam was taking place. 
Overall, I think Halifaxs fraud prevention systems were appropriately triggered throughout the time the scam was taking place and Mr A gave inaccurate answers to the questions 
Halifax asked him. Because of this Halifax was not able to identify the scam taking place and 
could not step in to prevent it. So, Halifax is not responsible for any of the money Mr A and 
Miss Y lost because of the scam.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman