DRN-3590402
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund over £69,000 he lost 
as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr T authorised the disputed payments he made from his 
Lloyds account. The payments were requested by him through open banking, using 
his legitimate security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr T 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr T has lost almost £70,000, which is a significant amount 
of money. But this amount wasnt lost over one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was paid in two separate transactions of £10,476.82 and £59,210.64 
made a few weeks apart. I accept that these are large amounts of money to be paid 
in single transfers, particularly the second payment. But I can see that Mr T had 
previously made transfers of £100,000 and £50,000 from the same account that year. 
So, the payments he made to the scammer would not have appeared unusual in 
comparison with Mr Ts spending history, such that Lloyds ought to have regarded 
them as suspicious. There was also nothing else to indicate that Mr T was in the 
process of being scammed. So, I dont think Lloyds can fairly be held liable for his 
loss here as Im not persuaded there was any obligation on them to intervene or 
prevent the payments in these circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds did enough to attempt to recover Mr Ts funds 
once it was made aware of the scam. I can see that he contacted Lloyds on 
16 September 2020 to tell them about the £59,210.64 payment he had sent the day 
prior. The system notes show that Lloyds contacted the receiving bank the same day, 
to which they received a response on 23 September 2020 stating that no funds 
remained. So, given this was raised with the receiving bank on the same day it was 
reported, I dont think Lloyds could have done anything more here to try and recover 
the money.
On 2 October 2020 Mr T subsequently disputed the £10,476.82 payment he made in 
August 2020. I appreciate that Lloyds didnt dispute this payment straight away on 
the same day, and it took around 3 days for the notice to be sent to the receiving 
bank. But given that time that had passed since the payment was made, any earlier 
attempt to recover the money by Lloyds would have likely made very little difference. 
Its common in scams such as this for the money to be moved from the account as 
soon as the payment has been made, as indeed it was for the payment made on 
15 September 2020. However, Lloyds have recognised that its service could have 
been better, for which it offered £100. And given I dont think any earlier action would 
have likely made much difference; Im satisfied this is fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly and reasonably 
be held liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman