DRN-4526717
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with My Community Bank (MyCB), who is a trading name of Brent Shrine 
Credit Union Limited. Although Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited is responsible for the 
actions of My Community Bank, for ease, I have referred to MyCB throughout this decision. 
Mr J complains MyCB lent to him irresponsibly and didnt carry out sufficient affordability 
checks at the time he took out his personal loan.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr J applied for, and was given a personal loan for £20,450, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £504 a month, and in 
total Mr J agreed to pay back just over £30,225 over the five years, once interest was added. 
The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation and Mr J intended to consolidate a loan in 
his name with c.£6,000 owing and a monthly repayment of £147. He also intended to 
consolidate four loans and two credit cards in his wifes name totalling c.£14,450, with 
monthly repayments totalling £428.
Mr J complains MyCB shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. He 
says that the lender should have seen from his credit file that that he was in financial 
difficulty, and that his indebtedness had become unsustainable. Mr J has said that he was 
struggling financially in 2019 and he doesnt think MyCB completed an income and 
expenditure assessment. 
MyCB considered Mr Js complaint and did not uphold it. It thought it completed appropriate 
checks before it approved the loan to Mr J and these showed the borrowing was affordable. 
It says it completed a search of Mr Js credit file, confirmed Mr Js identity, completed an 
affordability check obtaining his previous three months bank statements and payslips as 
verification, and requested a breakdown of the debts Mr J intended to repay.
In December 2020, Mr J contacted a debt charity because he was struggling to meet all his 
financial commitments  his wife had entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) the 
previous month. In March 2021, Mr J entered a debt management plan via the debt charity. 
Believing his MyCB loan had been included in the debt management plan, Mr J stopped 
making payments direct to the lender the same month. However, owing to a mistake, Mr Js 
MyCB loan wasnt included in the debt management plan and by August 2021, MyCB issued 
a demand for the full repayment of the debt after marking the account in default. MyCB then 
placed Mr Js account with its debt collection agents for recovery of the debt.
Mr J continued to make token payments to the account and approached a new provider to 
arrange a revised debt management plan. Mr J complained to MyCB in December 2022, 
unhappy at how the lender was managing his account given his financial difficulties, and 
because he thinks the lender acted irresponsibly in agreeing the loan at the outset. 
Unhappy with the response Mr J got from MyCB, he brought his complaint to this service. 
MyCB disagrees that it lent irresponsibly and confirmed that its debt collection agents still 
intended to take Mr J to court to recover the debt and/or securitise it against his property. But 
as yet, this hasnt happened.
Mr J wants MyCB to stop its litigation action and agree to work with his debt management 
plan provider. Our investigator considered the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable 
and proportionate checks, MyCB would have considered Mr J able to sustainably afford this 
loan.
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2023. In 
summary, I provisionally found MyCBs agreement to lend to Mr J was irresponsible. I 
thought that with reasonable and proportionate checks, MyCB ought to have seen Mr J was 
in financial difficulties and not in a position to repay this loan sustainably.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint. Having done all of that, 
Im not currently persuaded it was reasonable for MyCB to agree to lend  Ill explain my 
reasons. I only add that the decision is finely balanced and I thank both parties for their 
patience whilst Ive considered this case.
MyCB needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr J irresponsibly. It 
should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would 
be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable and 
proportionate checks should look like. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders 
checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to 
verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
MyCB asked for both Mr Js bank statements and his payslips covering the three months 
leading up to his application to provide manual validation of his income and expenditure 
before agreeing to the loan, as well as running a search of his credit file. So, given the 
wealth of information these provided about Mr Js income and expenditure including existing 
borrowing commitments, Im satisfied its checks were proportionate as a starting point. It 
follows, that in this case, I must consider how MyCB engaged with the information it got, 
whether it ought to have prompted further questions, and, ultimately, whether it made a fair 
decision to lend.
The search by MyCB of Mr Js credit files shows that he had taken out a secured loan seven 
months earlier, which was held in joint names. He had borrowed £28,745, repayable over 15 
years with monthly repayments of £373, and these were up to date. Given Mr J was applying 
to consolidate unsecured debts held by him and his wife and not borrow more, not long after 
taking out this secured loan, I think MyCB needed to understand the purpose of that loan. I 
say this because I think Mr J applying to extend the repayment terms of his and his wifes 
existing unsecured debts over a longer timescale could have been a sign that his/the 
households overall indebtedness was becoming unsustainable.
Ive not seen that MyCB asked Mr J about the secured loan he took out seven months prior 
to his application. But I can see from MyCBs search of his credit file, five of his accounts 
were settled between September and October 2018, at around the time the secured loan 
had started. And had MyCB asked Mr J about the purpose of that loan, I think it would have 
most likely have learnt that Mr J and Mrs J had taken it out to consolidate five of his personal 
loans and eight of hers. I do think it is concerning that Mr J was looking to consolidate again, 
within seven months of taking out the secured loan. I accept there may be arguments to counter my concern, for example, there being insufficient equity in Mr and Mrs Js property 
which may have prevented them from taking a larger secured loan. But it was for MyCB to 
satisfy itself that Mr Js repeat borrowing wasnt perpetuating a cycle of unsustainable 
borrowing.
MyCB has submitted a copy of an affordability/over indebtedness report it got from a credit 
reference agency as part of its checks into Mr Js application. I see that the report doesnt 
show any signs of repayment difficulties, for example there were no late or missed 
repayments. But the absence of repayment difficulties doesnt mean Mr J wasnt in financial 
difficulty  I say this because people may choose to prioritise credit repayment over other 
non-discretionary spending to preserve their credit record. This said, the report shows Mr J 
had opened a new credit account in the last three months. Ive crossed referenced this to his 
credit file and I see Mr J took out a £3,000 personal loan repayable over seven years in 
November 2018. So, two months after taking out the joint secured consolidation loan, Mr J 
needed to borrow more, taking the new borrowing over a lengthy term for the amount 
advanced. I think this suggests Mr J may have become dependent on credit, needing to 
borrow more to maintain his other credit commitments.
MyCB has also submitted a copy of bank statements it got from Mr J at time of his 
application  there are three statements covering January, February and March 2019. The 
statements show Mr J held the account with his wife, both salaries were credited to the 
account and show the household expenditure. MyCB also got three payslips  these were 
dated 22 February 2019, 22 March 2019 and 24 May 2018. I have carefully reviewed the 
bank statements and Ive seen that Mr Js salary was credited in February and March but 
there wasnt a salary credit in January 2019. I would expect MyCB to question this, as it 
hadnt got a payslip for January 2019. 
 
Ive seen that in February 2019, a standing order payment for £370 left Mr Js account to go 
towards a housing association. I couldnt see a corresponding payment on the January or 
March statements. In the knowledge that Mr J was a homeowner with a mortgage, I asked 
him about the payment to the housing association. Mr J explained he and his wife had 
bought their property on a shared-ownership basis and paid both a mortgage and rent each 
month. I asked Mr J about the missing payments on his bank statements and he confirmed 
that they had fallen into arrears with the rent payments. Mr J has since provided me with a 
copy of a statement for the rent payments from the housing association. It shows that as at 
the 1 April 2019, Mr and Mrs J were £726 in arrears with their rent. 
Mr J has also provided a copy of his council tax demand for 2019/20 and its shows a £242 
balance still owing for the previous year. Ive not seen a regular payment showing on Mr Js 
bank statements towards council tax. I can only see a one-off payment for £250 in March 
2019, which was paid before the council tax demand was produced. Again, this ought to 
have prompted further questions when validating Mr Js expenditure.
Noting Mr Js salary was at least three times higher than Mrs Js, I think it is reasonable to 
say he would be responsible for the lions share of the household expenditure. With this in 
mind, our investigator asked MyCB (on my behalf) for a copy of its income and expenditure 
assessment. Despite several chasers, its disappointing to note MyCB has been unable to 
submit this information, particularly as part of Mr Js complaint was that MyCB failed to carry 
out an income and expenditure assessment before agreeing the loan. I am curious to know 
how MyCB attributed joint commitments to Mr Js expenditure  for example utilities and 
mortgage payments. I wanted to know if it simply split them in half or used values 
proportionate to Mr and Mrs Js respective incomes. But given the circumstances Ive set out 
above, I am satisfied I can still reach a fair and reasonable outcome without it.Ive carefully considered whether MyCBs checks were proportionate in the circumstances of 
Mr Js loan application. But for the reasons Ive set out, I think the information it gathered 
ought to have prompted more questions  for example, the missed salary payment in 
January 2019 or the payment to the housing association. So, I am not currently persuaded 
MyCBs checks were reasonable and proportionate in this case. And I am keeping an open 
mind about how MyCBs checks attributed joint commitments.
Ive also carefully considered whether, with reasonable and proportionate checks and with 
getting answers to the questions I think it ought to have asked, it was responsible to lend to 
Mr J. 
On the one hand, the loan would reduce the household outgoings by around £70 a month, 
albeit by increasing Mr Js personal indebtedness in the process. But on the other hand, I 
think his circumstances show Mr J was in financial difficulties  to recap, he was applying for 
a second consolidation loan in seven months, having taken out a loan for £3,000 over a 
seven-year term, three months into the term of his first consolidation loan, and he was in 
arrears with his rent and with his council tax. 
The critical question here is whether the £70 reduction in his household monthly outgoings 
would offer Mr J sufficient relief to his/his households level of indebtedness to justify MyCBs 
agreement to the loan. Even if I were to set aside any consideration for increasing Mr Js 
personal indebtedness, taking on his wifes debts and repaying them over longer terms at 
additional overall cost; I still dont currently think a £70 reduction offered enough relief to 
make an unsustainable position sustainable.
I say this because with Mr J needing to borrow more money only three months into the term 
of his first consolidation loan, he didnt show any financial resilience to overcome unforeseen 
expenditure. Instead, I think it shows he had become dependent on credit. Ive not seen an 
improvement in his circumstances and an income shock in January 2019 placed a further 
strain on the household budget, prompting this further consolidation of debt. I think Mr Js 
indebtedness was already displaying some key signs of being unsustainable and the £70 
reduction in his household monthly outgoings wasnt the solution to his problems. I think it 
offered too little respite, given the extent of his council tax and rent arrears combined. So all 
things considered, Im not persuaded it was responsible for MyCB to lend to Mr J.
Finally, I have considered whether MyCB treated Mr J unfairly in other ways. Ive noted the 
difficulties Mr J has experienced after entering a debt management plan and I am aware of 
his other complaints about the other parties involved, which he also referred to this service. I 
also note Mr J had asked his wife to represent him on this and his other complaints. I dont 
think I can reasonably hold MyCB responsible for any errors in the administration of his debt 
management plan or find it acted unfairly when this stopped Mr J from making payments to 
the loan. And Ive seen from MyCBs contact history, most of the conversations were 
between the lender and Mrs J. As Mrs J is not the account holder and was only representing 
Mr J, I am unable to consider what happened between her and the lender, nor consider 
compensating her for any distress she may have experienced.
Responses 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 December 2023.
Mr J confirmed receipt of the provisional decision  after the Investigator had sent a 
duplicate copy  and asked whether he needed to contact MyCB for the new balance as only 
five months of the loan term remained. Mr J also asked me to consider telling MyCB to 
remove the negative information recorded on his credit file with immediate effect.MyCB disagreed with my provisional findings and in summary, it said:
It completed reasonable and proportionate checks to assess whether Mr J could repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. It collected bank statements and wage slips to review his 
income and expenses. There was sufficient disposable income to cover the repayments 
of the loan. And it does not think it needed to do more.
It did not increase Mr Js indebtedness. Mr Js unsecured credit commitments were low 
compared to his annual salary. There were no sign of any financial difficulties. His loan 
purpose was reviewed in a reasonable manner and the loan was viewed as simplification 
and replacement of the current debts of his household. 
Mr Js affordability and circumstances at the time of the application were not the cause of 
his inability to keep up with his payments. Mr J experienced changes in his 
circumstances in March/April 2020, a year after borrowing this loan. It believes these 
changes in circumstances were the cause of Mr Js financial difficulties. 
The reference to Mr J taking out a secured loan seven months prior to the agreement 
suggests that this should have been reviewed in more detail and questioned at the time 
of the application. MyCB believe it would not be reasonable, nor proportionate because it 
was a secured loan, and outside of a reasonable time frame to suggest it should have 
been questioned. 
Again, questioning the unsecured loan of £3,000 taken 5 months prior to our loan would 
be excessive and unreasonable because the amount and the timing was not unusual.
Its income assessment was based on Mr Js payslips which in March (pay period 12) 
showing a total of £39,966.63 YTD taxable earnings which is in line with his monthly 
earnings seen on the two payslips from 2019. It believes Mr J provided a payslip from 
May 2018 in error but supports that he had been in long employment with his current 
employer. This all suggests that his income was stable at the time of the application. And 
there was no need to request a payslip for January 2019.
It supports debt consolidation lending as a tool of improving financial resilience for its 
customers. As a credit union and with regulations, guidance and good industry practice in 
mind, its specialist sourcebook is the Credit Unions Sourcebook (CREDS) rather than the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And its loan agreements are unregulated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both MyCB and Mr Js submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Ill start by explaining that we were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts. I 
make decisions on the facts and evidence available in each case. The decision I come to is 
based on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. MyCB has pointed 
out that as a credit union, its specialist sourcebook is the Credit Unions Sourcebook 
(CREDS) rather than the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And its loan agreements 
are unregulated. Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take 
into account the: 
(1) relevant:
  (a) law and regulations;
  (b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
  (c) codes of practice; and
 (2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
I explained in my provisional decision that weve set out our approach to complaints about 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website. The approach encompasses all the 
matters I am dutybound to consider under DISP 3.6.4 R.
If by saying its specialist sourcebook is CREDS and not CONC, MyCB is suggesting that it   
need not take reasonable steps to ensure that it lends responsibly, nor does it need to 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself lending could be repaid in a 
sustainable way, then this is clearly at odds with the actual steps it took before agreeing to 
lend to Mr J. 
I think by searching Mr Js credit file, validating his income and expenditure, and calculating 
his disposable income, MyCB more likely than not intended to adopt good industry practice 
towards responsible lending. I also think this went as far as satisfying itself of Mr Js ability to 
repay the loan sustainably  noting its comment about improving financial resilience for its 
customers. And of course, as a regulated business, MyCB is required to adhere to the FCA 
principles as well as any regulatory obligations in place in its relevant sector, including PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. I have considered this case accordingly.
MyCB responded to say its checks were reasonable and proportionate and showed that Mr J 
had sufficient disposable income to cover the loan repayments. I agree to an extent that 
MyCBs checks  searching Mr Js credit file, validating his income and expenditure with 
payslips and bank statements  were reasonable and proportionate enquiries to make. But 
in Mr Js case, I think gaps in the information gathered ought to have prompted further 
checks had MyCB properly engaged with this information. For example, MyCB considers 
Mr J had provided a payslip from May 2018 in error, when it had expected to see his January 
2019 payslip. Yet his bank statement it got covering that month didnt show a salary credit 
for Mr J. I think this disproves MyCBs assumption that Mr J provided his May 2018 by 
mistake and further demonstrates shortcomings in its engagement with the information 
gathered. So, I disagree with MyCB that its checks were reasonable and proportionate.
MyCB says it wouldnt be proportionate to query the secured loan Mr J had taken out seven 
months prior or the unsecured loan he took three months later. But this is information 
showing on the search of Mr Js credit file it based its decision on and again is a question of 
engagement with information gathered. MyCB considers debt consolidation lending as a tool 
of improving financial resilience. But information from Mr Js credit file shows he had turned 
once again to credit within months of consolidating his households debt and his financial 
resilience was dependent on further borrowing. I think Mr Js pattern of repeat lending over a 
relative short period time more likely than not shows an unsustainable dependency on credit.
MyCB believes changes in his circumstances were the cause of Mr Js financial difficulties. I 
accept the changes in his circumstances may have brought matters to the fore. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have 
shown Mr J was in arrears on his council tax and rent to his association at the time of his 
application, and I think it is fair to say that he was already in financial difficulties. Ive carefully considered all MyCBs submissions but I remain unpersuaded that restructuring 
Mr Js household debts over a longer term to increase his disposable income by £70 a 
month offered a sustainable solution to his financial difficulties and over reliance on credit. I 
think MyCBs agreement to lend to Mr J was irresponsible.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr J in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr J 
was given the loan and he used the money to settle other lending. In these circumstances, I 
cant undo whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr J back in the position he 
would be in if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think MyCB should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mr J made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr J 
has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him.  
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mr J to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Agree with Mr J (and/or the administrator of any debt management plan he is still in) an 
affordable plan to repay any amount left owing. 
I asked the parties to respond to my provisional decision if they thought this couldnt be 
achieved out of court and without the need for litigation or securitisation of the debt, 
accepting both parties must engage with each other to achieve such a plan. Mr J queried 
whether he should now contact MyCB or wait for the recalculation of the balance owing. 
Although MyCB had the opportunity to do so, MyCB did not respond on this point  and 
so I must assume it agrees in principle to work with Mr J out of court and without the 
need for litigation or securitisation of the debt.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this loan 
(once Mr J has repaid any outstanding balance).
Mr J suggested the negative information should be removed immediately. I disagree 
because removing it after the debt is repaid means any adverse information recorded 
from here on will also be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require MyCB to deduct tax from this interest. MyCB should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted.
I again remind MyCB about its obligations to treat Mr J fairly and offer due forbearance 
should he continue to find himself in financial hardship. And equally, I remind Mr J of the 
importance of engaging with the lender.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Brent Shrine Credit 
Union Limited, trading as My Community Bank to put things right for him in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman