DRN-3284403
The complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim and avoided his
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms truck was stolen and then recovered so he claimed on his policy with Covea for the
damage caused to his truck. When he claimed on the policy Covea said they discovered that
Mr Ms vehicle wasnt a van but in fact had a flatbed back to it, along with a beavertail and
straps. Because of this Covea thought Mr M was using it as a recovery vehicle and said they
dont insure them. So avoided his policy and declined the claim.
Mr M didnt agree and complained. He said hed input the registration on a comparison site
and gone with what was selected. He also said he said the vehicle had a flatbed rear which
he had declared and that it had a load limit of 700kgs, so couldnt be used for a recovery
vehicle.
Covea reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. They said theyd made an error in
avoiding the policy due to the truck having a flatbed rear. However, they now said that Mr M
hadnt declared the modifications to his truck. Covea said if Mr M had declared the
modifications, they wouldnt have covered him. Because of this Covea said hed made a
careless misrepresentation, maintained the avoidance was fair and refunded his premium of
£2,388.10. Covea also pointed out as the claim was for less than £1,000, Mr M wasnt
financially worse off.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint here. He said he hadnt modified the vehicle as
hed bought it from new and at that time and selected which back the vehicle had. He said as
this was done by the manufacturer and before the truck was registered, he didnt agree it
had been modified. He also said while he hadnt lost out financially, he now had to declare to
future insurers about this policy being avoided.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2022 where I said:
Since the complaint has come to us Covea have now said Mr M has selected the wrong
vehicle to insure. Covea said Mr M insured an Iveco Daily 35S18 LWB 176 AGI whereas in
fact his is actually an Iveco Daily 35C15 XLWB with modifications. Covea said if theyd know
the correct model of truck then they wouldnt have provided cover as Mr Ms was not a
vehicle they covered at the time.
When Mr M bought his policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Covea to take any action at all it
needs to show Mr M didnt do this and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
Mr M said he bought this policy online through an aggregator site and input the trucks
registration number. He said the aggregator then prepopulated the trucks details and he
selected flatbed as that was the closest option. Covea havent provided anything from the
initial sales channel to show Mr M input the incorrect details.
Covea have though provided the statement of fact which does list Mr Ms truck as being an
Iveco Daily 35S18 LWB 176 AGI. However, Im also aware that this name is quite similar to
Iveco Daily 35C15 XLWB. Im persuaded by Mr Ms account that the aggregator site 
prepopulated the trucks details, so Im not persuaded Covea have shown Mr M didnt give a 
fair presentation of the risk.
However, even if I thought Covea had shown Mr M hadnt made a fair presentation of the
risk, for Covea to take any action they need to show they would have either not insured Mr M
or done so, but on different terms. Covea have provided evidence which they say shows
they wouldnt have insured an Iveco Daily 35C15 XLWB. Ive reviewed this but Im not
persuaded by it, I say that because the evidence Covea have provided is an internal email
which doesnt show the person writing it is qualified to say which vehicles Covea would or
wouldnt cover. Im therefore not persuaded Covea have shown they wouldnt have covered
Mr M's truck.
Ive also considered the point Covea raised about modifications not being declared. Again,
without seeing anything from the initial sales channel Im unable to see what information Mr
M was asked for. However, I have noted on the statement of fact it says:
Has the vehicle been modified or altered from the makers specification
including body kits, alloy wheels, spoilers, engine, suspension etc.
Next to this it says No. So while I agree Mr M hasnt declared any modifications, hes also
said he didnt modify the truck. Mr M says the back of the trucks are selected by the
purchaser as these vehicles can have different backs put on them. The chosen back is then
put on along with any other options selected and once this has been done the truck is
registered and sold.
This is quite common for these types of vehicles too, as there is a selection to choose from
when purchasing one new. Mr M purchased his new and has provided the documents to
show this. Im therefore not satisfied Covea have shown that hes modified it by the back 
hes chosen to have put on from new. So, it follows that Im not persuaded Covea have 
shown Mr M didnt give a fair presentation of the risk when he said it hadnt been modified.
As Covea havent done enough to persuade me Mr M didnt make a fair presentation of the
risk or that they would have done anything differently. It follows that Im not persuaded
Covea treated Mr M fairly and reasonably by declining his claim and avoiding his policy.
However, as Covea have already chosen to refund the premium Im not going to interfere
with their choice to do that. And as the repair was less than the premium Mr M was
refunded, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for him to keep the refund to cover the repair
cost and the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Covea has caused.
The impact Mr M does have though is that he has an avoidance recorded which he needs to
declare to future insurers, if asked. Therefore, to put this right Covea needs to remove any
record of the avoidance from internal and external databases. They should also provide Mr
M with a letter to explain that Covea incorrectly avoided Mr Ms policy so he can provide this
to future insurers if needed.Covea responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr M responded and said hed had 
to pay more for insurance on his other vehicles and therefore thought Covea should pay 
more compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments but Im not going to tell Covea to pay any more 
compensation. I say this because Im satisfied the refund of premium is enough to 
compensate Mr M for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Covea have caused. 
Also, as Covea will be providing Mr M with a letter to say the policy was incorrectly 
cancelled/avoided, he will be able to provide this to his other insurers and ask them to re-
calculate his premium on the correct information. Im therefore not going to tell Covea to 
cover the additional amount hes paid for his other insurance policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to: 
Not recover the refund of premium given to Mr M
Remove any record of the cancellation/avoidance from internal and external
databases
Provide Mr M with a letter saying Covea Insurance plc incorrectly cancelled/avoided 
Mr Ms policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman