DRN-4026612
The complaint
Mr C complains that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) has treated him unfairly in relation to 
his claim under his RAC Breakdown Cover.
What happened
The background is well known between parties, so Ill provide a summary of events.
Mr C held breakdown cover with RAC for several years. This policy has more than 
one insurer that underwrites different parts of the cover.
Company R is the insurer for the roadside, home, and recovery services. So, it is the 
business that is responsible for these services.
The policy also provides additional covers, (including onward travel, mis-fuel and 
others). These separate covers are separate contracts underwritten by RAC 
Insurance Limited  and it is responsible for complaints about these services.
In September 2021, while travelling away from home, Mr Cs vehicle broke down. 
Mr C says he contacted RAC around midday and was told a technician would arrive 
within two hours. Mr C says he received a series of messages throughout the day 
pushing this timeframe further back, and eventually a trusted partner agent was 
sent, and they arrived around 9:45pm.
Mr C says he was advised to get a taxi to their onward destination as the car could 
not be repaired. It was towed that evening to a garage and Mr C and his companions 
travelled on, arriving late in the evening.
Mr C says a family member had to collect him and his companions on a long 
distance round trip. He also incurred costs hiring the courtesy car, paying for a taxi, a 
train ticket back to the garage, and petrol costs. He complained to RAC and sought 
these expenses, and garage repair costs, saying the agent was incompetent as the 
vehicle issue was only a broken fuse, and RAC had failed its duty of care over him 
and those travelling with him by leaving him abandoned.
RAC agreed there had been a delay in sending an agent. But it said the fault took Mr 
Cs own garage several hours to diagnose, which its agent wouldnt be able to do at 
the roadside. And it wouldnt pay for the garage costs which he wouldve needed to 
pay anyway.
RAC also said it had arranged for the hire car for three days in line with the policy 
terms, but the policy wouldnt cover costs related to later travel (to get back to the 
garage) or delivery or collection of the hire vehicle as this falls to the policyholders 
own expense. It said this part was the only part of the complaint Mr C had made that 
was regulated. RAC did agree as a gesture of goodwill to pay £252.50. This included 
the fuel costs (£80), train cost (£37.50), hire car charges (£30), taxi charge (£55) and 
£50 in compensation for any inconvenience. 
The complaint came to this Service. RAC said this Service had the power to consider 
the matter regarding onward travel (which included the concern about paying a £50 
fuel deposit and £30 for costs related to delivery and collection of the hire vehicle). 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She explained we couldnt look at a complaint about the length of time it took for 
someone to attend or the service provided by its agent  and a separate decision 
against Company R has been issued by this Service to this effect.
For the complaint points we could consider against RAC Insurance Limited, she said 
RAC wasnt responsible for the vehicle breaking down or the length of time taken for 
the garage to carry out the repairs. And RAC had acted fairly by covering additional 
costs as a gesture of goodwill that werent covered by the policy. 
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has come to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C has been clear the majority of his complaint is about RACs handling of his 
breakdown claim, on the day he broke down. For the reasons outlined above, and 
within my previous jurisdiction decision against Company R, these are not matters I 
can consider.
The matters I can consider is the events that followed and RACs handling of the 
other parts of the claim.
Mr C argued RAC should cover costs related to the onward travel part of his policy, 
including taxi fare, a train ticket, and petrol costs. RAC has agreed to pay all of these 
costs as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied this outcome provides Mr C with the 
funds he seeks so I see no reason to comment further on these points.
Mr C also asked for costs related to hire car charges of £30. RAC said it wasnt liable 
for these, quoting its policy terms that say it will not cover the cost of:
1. delivery and collection of the hire car including any fuel used;
2. any fuel while using the hire car; or
3. any insurance excess or additional costs.
But it said it would cover these costs anyway. Im in agreement its clear the policy 
wouldnt cover these additional costs it has now paid  but its resolution has given Mr 
C what he has asked for in any case.
Mr C also sought cover for the cost of his repair costs. This isnt covered by the 
policy and so isnt something Im going to direct RAC to pay. Mr Cs reasons for 
asking for this relate to matters I cannot consider (against Company R), so his 
reasoning for asking for this  questioning the competency of the agent who attended 
 does not impact the decision I make against RAC.
Mr C says the £50 compensation it has awarded isnt sufficient and has asked for 
£1,000 on the basis of the impact of leaving him and his partner and dog by the 
roadside for a prolonged period. But again, even if I agreed RAC was at fault for this, 
these arent matters I can consider. So, taking into account the parts of the claim I 
can consider, Im satisfied the £50 it has offered alongside its offer to pay for other 
costs is sufficient and Im not asking it to do anything further.My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. RAC Insurance Limited must pay Mr C £252.50 in total if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman