DRN-3359607
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the delays hes experienced in trying to arrange for his ISA 
account to be transferred away from Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth Limited 
(Schroder). He is also unhappy that hes had to send a great deal of correspondence to 
remedy the situation.
What happened
Mr J holds a portfolio account with this wife within which Mr J holds a stocks and shares ISA. 
The administration of the account was taken over by Schroder in June 2019. In 
September 2019, Mr J requested transfer of his ISAs to another product provider who Ill 
refer to as Company A after he was told his portfolio account with the business would be 
closed.
Schroder acknowledged the transfer and sent Company A, a cheque for the proceeds of the 
ISA on 7 October 2019, but this was subsequently returned to Schroder as there was a 
discrepancy between the value of the cheque and the amount expected.
Schroder told Mr J that the transfer was completed in November 2019, but it wasnt until 
May 2020 that Schroder realised it had overlooked sending a replacement cheque. It finally 
sent this on 12 May 2020, at which point the transfer was completed.
During this period, Mr J sent a great deal of correspondence relating to the delay. Unhappy 
with the events that had taken place, Mr J raised a complaint. He raised concerns about the 
length of time taken for Schroder to complete the transfer, the numerous letters hed sent to 
deal with the delay and that many of those letters werent answered.
Schroder accepted that the ISA transfer hadnt been carried out in line with its standards, so 
it looked into whether Mr J incurred an investment loss because of the delay. It calculated 
that he was over £3k better off by having been disinvested between October 2019 and May 
2020, but it accepted that it had caused distress and inconvenience during that period, so it 
offered to compensate £400.
Mr J then referred the complaint to this service. An investigator looked into their complaint. 
He found Schroders handling of the ISAs to be lacking but he thought it offer of 
compensation of £400 was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mr J didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
Mr J and his wife have also raised a number of issues relating the handling of their ISA 
accounts, some of which took place prior to Schroder taking over the account and others 
which concern the attempted transfer of their ISAs to providers other than Company A. I 
should clarify that those complaint points are being considered separately at this service and 
have not been formed part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the evidence in full but given the parameters of this decision, Ive limited my 
comments to whether Schroder has treated Mr J fairly when it dealt with the transfer of his 
ISA to Company A.
HMRC guidelines for the transfer of a stocks and shares ISA are that they should be 
completed withing 30 days. Looking at a timeline of the events that took place, its clear 
these guidelines were exceeded here - Schroder made an error in that it failed to issue a 
replacement cheque after it was returned, and when it realised its error, almost 7 months 
had passed. 
Its very clear from Mr Js submissions, and the documents he has provided that his 
experience with Schroder has been challenging and caused him frustration. Mr J suffered 
significant delays throughout  from his initial request to transfer the account in October 
2019 through to trying to get the actual transfer completed in May 2020. Though Mr J hasnt 
suffered a monetary loss (he was out of the market whilst awaiting the transfer which meant 
he was approximately £3,250 better off than had he remained invested), I can see that this 
caused upset for him. Like our investigator I believe that Schroder could have provided a 
better standard of service. 
Schroder accepts it needs to compensate Mr J, and has agreed to pay £400. So, my task 
now is to say whether I think this is enough, or whether I agree with Mr J that such has the 
impact of Schroders service been on him to this point, that £800 is a fairer sum. Ive looked 
at all of the evidence, but I agree with the investigator that the offer of £400 is fair in the 
circumstances. As Mr J may be aware, this service isnt here to punish businesses. What we 
do is try to find a fair resolution to a dispute. This sometimes this involves a compensation 
payment. These payments are to reflect the impact of a businesss mistake on, or poor 
treatment of, a customer, with a view to trying to put them back into the position theyd have 
been in had it never happened.
Mr Js view that he should be compensated for the time he has spent with the number of 
letters he has provided to Schroder. I recognise Mr J dedicated a significant amount of time 
on letters to Schroder and I can see he genuinely felt this was needed. Ive taken into 
account all of the effort he went to and can appreciate why he felt it necessary to send 
multiple letters, but I dont think this actually helped him get the answers he was looking for 
quicker. In sending letters to several people, this led to uncertainty on what needed to be 
responded to especially where complaint points were added to, reiterated or overlapped. 
Taking everything into account, I believe £400 is appropriate for the inconvenience caused 
by of Schroders handling of the ISA transfer and its varied responses.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that Scottish Widows Schroder Personal Wealth Limited should pay £400 
to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman