DRN-4024212
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded her for flights she booked 
through a third party merchant.
What happened
Mrs H booked flights through a third party. But shes explained that she didnt receive her 
tickets. She then cancelled the flights, but didnt receive a refund. Accordingly, she contacted 
Lloyds, to ask it to raise a chargeback. It temporarily credited her account with the funds. 
However, the merchant raised a defence to the chargeback, and Lloyds re-debited the 
funds.
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service, and explained she thought shed been 
scammed.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. It had raised a chargeback, but the merchant had defended it. It had shown 
that the tickets had been sent. Mrs H had later cancelled the flights, and received a refund of 
the tax portion of her payment. However, she wasnt entitled to the rest, as set out in the 
airlines terms and conditions regarding cancellation.
Mrs H disagreed, and says she doesnt feel Lloyds did enough to help her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. Id like to assure 
Mrs H that Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. Where I dont refer to any 
particular submission, that isnt because I havent considered it. Rather, its because Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Before I explain my decision, Id like to extend my sympathies to Mrs H. Im aware that her 
reasons for travelling were very distressing, and Im sorry that shes found herself in this 
position, as such a difficult time.
Ill now turn to the merits of the complaint. Chargeback isnt a consumer right  its a 
voluntary scheme. That said, Id expect a business to raise a chargeback where appropriate. 
Here, Lloyds did raise a chargeback. It credited Mrs Hs account in the meantime, which is 
standard practice. 
The merchant defended the chargeback. It provided evidence of Mrs H confirming that shed 
received the tickets. It also showed that shed later decided to cancel the flights. Mrs H had 
also been provided with terms and conditions, showing refunds were subject to airline policy. 
In this case, the policy was to refund taxes only.
Lloyds considered this defence to be sufficient, such that it didnt pursue matters further. 
Given the evidence provided by the merchant, I consider this to have been reasonable.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs H, but I think its a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman