DRN-2344501
The complaint
Miss K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund a cash 
withdrawal, which she said she didnt make, and that it provided a poor service.
What happened
Miss K said her flatmate stole her savings account debit card, while they were out one 
evening, and withdrew £100 without her knowledge or consent. This happened on 1 
November 2019. She said shed tried to withdraw £50 from an ATM the same night but the 
machine didnt dispense any cash. Later that night, she successfully withdrew £20 from 
another ATM. 
On 4 November 2019, she checked her account online and saw the cash withdrawal for 
£100.
Miss K called NatWest and raised a fraud complaint. She said her flatmate had made the 
cash withdrawal and that hed admitted it after shed confronted him. He then moved out. 
She said he was standing directly behind her when she tried to withdraw £50 and he must 
have shoulder-surfed her.  She said she always kept her card in her purse, but she found it 
in her jacket pocket. She said she never kept her card in her jacket pocket. She also told 
NatWest that hed done this before. She asked NatWest for a refund.
Subsequently, Miss K complained about the call handler. She said she was rude to her and 
had assumed the flatmate was her boyfriend. She said shed also held her liable after 
wrongly relying on the facts in another case. And she said NatWest cancelled her savings 
account card, even though shed asked it not to do so. She later learned that NatWest no 
longer offered debit cards for the savings account.
NatWest investigated her complaint but decided not to refund her. It concluded that the 
disputed withdrawal wasnt fraud because:
her card and PIN were used to make the cash withdrawal
there was no incorrect attempt at the PIN
shed made a genuine attempt to withdraw £50 at 2.00am
the disputed cash withdrawal was made at 2.10am from another ATM - ten minutes 
after the failed attempt to withdraw cash
she clearly had her card when she withdrew £20 at 4.03am the same night
she still had her card when she called the bank on 4 November 2019 to report the 
fraud
it didnt think it was plausible that her flatmate could remove the card from her purse 
and return it to her jacket pocket without her noticing.
NatWest acknowledged that the first call handler had added a note to her file from another 
case but said it didnt affect the outcome. And it said shed confirmed she wanted her card 
cancelled. However, it admitted that the call handler didnt tell her that she wouldnt get a 
replacement card as this product was no longer available. It paid Miss K £57 for the cost of 
her calls and for its poor service.
Miss K didnt think NatWests decision was fair, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He felt unable to conclude 
that the disputed cash withdrawal had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it was 
most likely made and authorised by Miss K. He also considered that NatWests 
compensation payment was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss K didnt accept the investigators view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The facts, the transactions, the relevant regulations and the evidence are set out in the 
investigators view. Both Miss K and NatWest have read the investigators view, so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure Miss K that Ive read the file, including her comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im afraid my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, NatWest is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Miss K liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ks genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed cash withdrawal. But the regulations relevant to this case say that 
is not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss K made the withdrawal 
herself.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Miss K 
authorised the disputed cash withdrawal. This is because:
the disputed cash withdrawal was made ten minutes after a genuine attempt to 
withdraw £50 and at an ATM, which was approximately seven minutes walk from the 
first ATM.
According to Miss K she kept her card in her purse in a handbag. This means that in 
in the space of ten minutes, the flatmate took her card and used it without her 
noticing. If Miss K didnt follow him to the ATM, then at some point before 4.03am he 
found an opportunity to return the card to her by placing it in her jacket pocket - again 
without her noticing. Im afraid I dont find this plausible.
Miss K withdrew £20 at 4.03am. Presumably, based on what shes said, the card was 
in her jacket pocket, but she didnt question this at the time or confront the flatmate. 
She didnt say how she knew it was in her pocket. She didnt mention looking for it in 
her purse.It was Miss Ks intention to withdraw cash that night. Its plausible, therefore, that 
when the ATM didnt dispense the £50, she went to find another machine.
The online banking log for Miss Ks account shows that she checked her account 
balance via her mobile banking app at 3.42am and again at 5.25am. She also made 
a balance enquiry at 4.03 just before she withdrew £20. Given the amount of money 
in her account, I think its more likely than not that she wouldve noticed the reduced 
balance. However, she didnt call NatWest until 4 November 2019. I think I can 
reasonably infer from this information that she knew about the disputed cash 
withdrawal and had made it herself or had allowed the flatmate or other third party to 
make it.
In summary, Im afraid I didnt find Miss Ks evidence to be convincing. She was very light on 
detail. Ive listened to her second call to NatWest and her call to this service. In both she 
focuses mainly on the poor service she received. She hasnt told us what happened between 
2.00am and 4.03am. She hasnt said what happened after her failed attempt to withdraw 
cash at 2.00am. If she were still with her flatmate, then she must have gone to the ATM with 
him when the disputed cash withdrawal was made. And if they separated after 2.00am, then 
he must have re-joined her before 4.03am when the card was in her possession again. Yet, 
she didnt notice anything unusual. She simply hasnt provided any details of where they 
went or what they were doing or crucially how the card was taken and replaced. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Miss K authorised the disputed cash 
withdrawal. It follows that NatWest is entitled to hold her liable for it.
Poor Service
NatWest didnt provide the call recording of her conversation with the first call handler. Ive 
no reason to doubt it was a fractious call otherwise she wouldnt have made the second call. 
And even though the call handler added facts from another case to her file notes, I dont 
consider it had any impact on the outcome. 
Ive listened to Miss Ks second call to NatWest. The call handler asked her if she wanted 
her savings account card cancelled and a new PIN. She confirms, very clearly, that she does 
and adds that she wants a new card and PIN for her current account too. She also confirmed 
that the bank should send the new cards and PINs to her home address, as the flatmate had 
moved out. Unfortunately, the call handler didnt explain that NatWest no longer provided 
cards for the savings account and so Miss K didnt get a replacement card. NatWest 
apologised and paid her £57 compensation for her phone calls and trouble and upset. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable amount to pay in the circumstances. The impact has been 
minimal as the card wasnt going to be replaced on expiry anyway.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss K, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman