DRN-4395358
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Scottish Widows Limited t/a Clerical Medical didnt let her know she 
could have shopped around for an annuity using the open market option, which might have 
made her better off.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
Mrs M had a stakeholder pension plan with Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical 
Medical (Clerical Medical). Her chosen retirement date was her 65th birthday in January 
2024.
In November 2013, Mrs M contacted Clerical Medical about the possibility of taking her 
pension benefits early. Clerical Medical provided Mrs M with a current plan valuation of 
£8,802 and set out her options about when and how she could turn her pension savings into 
income for her retirement. 
The letter said she should shop around and consider taking financial advice about what to 
do. It enclosed a copy of the Money Advice Service booklet Your Pension  its time to 
choose.  It gave her some options about taking an annuity and a tax-free lump sum, with a 
warning about the Lifetime Allowance. It told her the next steps and reiterated the 
recommendation to seek financial advice for such an important financial decision.
Mrs M signed Clerical Medicals application form on 27 November 2013, selecting option 4 
(for Clerical Medical to pay her tax-free cash, and for the balance to be transferred to 
another annuity provider). Clerical Medical wrote to Mrs M in December 2013 asking her to 
clarify her choice, and this was apparently resolved during a telephone call which 
unfortunately cannot now be obtained. Mrs M decided to purchase her annuity from Clerical 
Medical, and the first annual income payment of just under £312 was paid in January 2014, 
when Mrs M turned 55.
In August 2020 and June 2022 at Mrs Ms request, Clerical Medical provided information 
summarising the details of her annuity. 
In January 2023 Mrs Ms representatives requested details of Mrs Ms annuity from Clerical 
Medical, including information from the point of sale, in relation to a potential financial loss 
claim. In February 2023 Clerical Medical responded to Mrs Ms representatives confirming 
her annuity had been set up direct, on a non-advised basis, with no independent financial 
adviser (IFA) involvement. 
It confirmed it was not an enhanced annuity, and that these had only launched to the IFA 
market in early 2014, and no medical questionnaire had been requested. It provided copies 
of the information from 2013 when Mrs M applied for the annuity, and confirmed shed been 
given an illustration and quotation, but the provision of market-leading quotes wasnt a 
regulatory requirement at the time. And the booklet and letters Mrs M had been given said 
she should shop around before making her decision. Mrs M had completed the application 
form herself, and her requirements were confirmed in a phone call on 24 January 2014, but 
they were unable to provide the transcript of that call. 
In May 2023 Mrs M through her representatives complained to this service, saying Clerical 
Medical hadnt treated her fairly. Mrs M said she hadnt been told she could shop around to 
see if shed be better off taking an annuity with another provider, through the open-market 
option (OMO). And that Clerical Medical had failed to provide her with the calculations to 
show how its quote compared to a quote from a market-leading provider, which they said is 
a regulatory breach. 
In August 2023 Clerical Medical issued its formal response to Mrs Ms complaint. It didnt 
uphold the complaint, as the copy letters clearly showed Mrs M had been recommended to 
shop around using the OMO in 2013 when she applied for her annuity. The letter ended by 
saying that Clerical Medical was pleased Mrs M had agreed during a telephone call that her 
complaint was resolved. 
However Mrs Ms representatives said they still wanted this service to review the complaint. 
So one of our investigators looked into what had happened, but she didnt uphold the 
complaint. She was satisfied from the information provided to Mrs M in 2013 that she had 
been recommended to shop around using the OMO, and to seek financial advice to help 
make her decision. Mrs M had returned her signed and dated annuity application form in 
December 2013 and the annuity was set up on that basis. She said it wasnt clear if Clerical 
Medical had provided the calculations Mrs M had asked for but recommended they do so.  
Mrs Ms representatives asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said even if 
Mrs M had been told about it, as a retail client she wouldnt have understood what was 
meant by the OMO. 
So the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The event being complained about, which is Mrs Ms application to purchase an annuity in 
December 2013, happened more than six years before she complained in 2023. Clerical 
Medical hasnt raised a time bar objection, so Im able to consider the merits.
Mrs M says when she applied for her annuity she wasnt advised to shop around to check 
that the annuity Clerical Medical could offer was the best option for her. And that Clerical 
Medical was obliged under COBS 19.9.7 to provide a market leading quote to help her 
make a decision. And even if Clerical Medical had told Mrs M about the OMO, they didnt 
ensure that as a retail client she understood what it meant.
The information provided by Clerical Medical from 2013 suggests Mrs M contacted them 
when she was approaching age 55, to ask about taking her retirement benefits before her 
normal retirement date in 2024. Mrs M was sent a letter dated 20 November 2013 which 
Clerical Medical also copied to Mrs Ms financial advisers at the time, although Clerical 
Medical say Mrs M made the decision without IFA involvement. The letter included the 
following: 
Remember you can choose to buy your retirement benefit from us, but you dont have to, 
and you should consider shopping around. This is known as the Open Market Option (OMO) and is your right to compare the income we can offer you against the income available from 
other pension companies, as you might get a higher income if you move to another 
company. Clerical Medical may not offer a product that best suits your needs. Which product 
is best for you will depend on your individual circumstances when you retire. 
In bold type it also said You do not have to buy an annuity from us, and you should 
shop around to make sure you buy the right type of annuity for you. The booklet 
Your pension  its time to choose contains more information on how to collect 
different quotations from different annuity providers.
I think this makes reasonably clear to a retail customer like Mrs M that she had the right to 
shop around and why she might be better off doing that. Im satisfied it explained what the 
OMO is without using confusing jargon. 
And as well as its own telephone number, Clerical Medical included the number of the 
Pensions Advisory Service where Mrs M could get free, impartial advice. So I think Clerical 
Medical did enough to explain the OMO to Mrs M in laymans terms, and how she could get 
help if she didnt understand anything. Mrs M appears to have selected option 4 in error 
when she actually wanted option 2, as during a phone call in January 2014 she apparently 
confirmed she wished to purchase her annuity from Clerical Medical not another provider. Id 
ideally have liked to listen to that call, although I dont find it surprising its not available after 
more than nine years. But I think if Mrs M had wanted to use the OMO, shed have queried 
receiving her first annuity payment from Clerical Medical, which she didnt. So I think its 
most likely Mrs M received the annuity she was expecting. 
Mrs Ms representatives have suggested Clerical Medical failed to provide market-leading 
quotes stating this is a breach of COBS 19.9.7. But I can see from the FCAs rule book this 
requirement wasnt in place in 2013, it was introduced in January 2019, so didnt apply at the 
relevant time.
Mrs M disclosed in her complaint she has two health conditions (asthma and arthritis), but 
she wasnt offered an enhanced annuity, which is a more generous annuity offered to people 
whose health or lifestyle shortens their life expectancy. Clerical Medical said Mrs M didnt 
request a health questionnaire. 
But I can see the November 2013 letter also said Do you smoke? Are you on any 
medication or do you have a medical condition? If so, you may be eligible for an 
enhanced annuity, which could pay you a much higher level of income. And it went on to 
suggest Mrs M make use of the Pension Advisory Services free online annuity planner. 
In response to her complaint, Clerical Medical said at the time Mrs M took her benefits it only 
provided enhanced annuities through an IFA. But I think the letter made reasonably clear 
what Mrs M needed to do to see if her health conditions entitled her to a higher income, and 
the sources of help and guidance available to her. 
I dont know if Mrs M made use of the free resources provided by the Pensions Advisory 
Service or Money Advice Service. And I dont know why she didnt shop around, or whether 
she would have been entitled to an enhanced annuity with Clerical Medical or another 
provider. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied she was given sufficient information to know 
that she didnt need to purchase her annuity from Clerical Medical, and she had the right to 
shop around for a better deal if she wanted to. So I dont uphold the complaint. As Clerical 
Medical wasnt obliged to provide market leading quotes to Mrs M at the time she took her 
benefits, Im not going ask it to provide them now.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman