DRN-4172558
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader, trading as D. He complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments he didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Cashplus has seemingly accepted this concerns unauthorised payments. While Ive 
noted a mention of a safe account in one of Cashplus call notes, which could point to 
authorised payments, its not provided me with the call recording for this when Ive 
asked for it. And given that the rest of Cashplus and Mr Ds communication 
consistently said Mr D didnt know about payments, Ive proceeded on this basis. 
The starting position for unauthorised payments, in line with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), is that Cashplus is liable to refund them. However, its 
refused to do this because it asserts Mr D failed with gross negligence to comply with 
the terms of the account and keep his personalised security details safe  something 
which, if proven, means he wouldnt be entitled to a refund under the PSRs. 
To support that, its pointed out how Mr D shared one-time passcodes with a 
fraudster that ultimately authenticated the two disputed card payments. 
To decide this, Ive reflected on the circumstances on the scam: 
oMr D received a call from a withheld number who introduced themselves as 
calling from Cashpluss fraud team. 
oHe recalled they said there had been some unusual activity on his account, 
and took him through security, where it was clear they knew several pieces 
of his personal information. 
oMr D recalled hearing a call centre environment in the background. 
oAfter confirming he didnt recognise the suspicious transactions, the caller told 
him his account was under attack. To sort this, theyd need to verify Mr D by 
sending a code to his phone which hed need to share. 
oThe caller rang back a second time and said there was further attempted 
fraud so theyd need another code to verify him. 
oWhen the caller rang back a further time, Mr D became concerned and hung 
up before contacting Cashplus. 
Given the apparent professionalism and familiarity, I can see how Mr D came to trust 
the call was genuine. I can also understand how he was further reassured when a 
message genuinely came through from Cashplus when hed been told to expect it. 
I recognise the messages referred to verifying a payment. Mr D said he didnt read 
these messages fully  instead he saw the code as a preview on his phone and 
shared it when they asked. Given that the code appears first in the message, and 
taking into account Mr Ds trust he was speaking with Cashplus and that he needed 
to act quickly given his money was at risk, I can see how he did this. I dont think it 
means he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he failed with gross 
negligence. 
Cashplus submit Mr D had suspicions with the calls. I recognise Mr D said he 
challenged the caller about who they were  but he was reassured when they were 
able to send a message that came from Cashplus. Of course, Mr D couldve carried 
out further due diligence. But the test is whether he did everything he could have, or 
even ought reasonably to have done. And here, I dont think the steps he did take 
meant he seriously disregarded an obvious risk  to say he failed with gross 
negligence. 
I also realise Mr D became concerned with their persistent calls. But it remains that, 
at the time he shared these codes, he felt reassured he was talking with Cashplus 
and acting to protect his account. 
It follows that Im not persuaded Cashplus has shown Mr D failed with gross 
negligence. So, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider he can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding 
his losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate 
him for the time hes been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited must:
Pay Mr D the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman