DRN-3721770
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr B said that he saw an advert advertising a trading platform, which appeared to be 
endorsed by well-known entrepreneurs. 
He was given access to a trading platform and was told that, in order to invest, hed need to 
convert his money into cryptocurrency using a well-known cryptocurrency provider. 
Between September 2020 and February 2021, he transferred a significant sum of money 
from his HSBC bank account to the cryptocurrency provider, before sending those funds in 
cryptocurrency to what he believed was the trading platform. 
HSBC spoke to Mr B on 29 September 2020  when he was attempting to make just his third 
payment. He explained that hed be making a number of other payments to the 
cryptocurrency provider. HSBC provided a brief and general scam warning but then let the 
payment go ahead. 
During this period Mr B was extensively communicating with an individual representing the 
trading platform. Ive referred to this person as his account manager. I can see from the 
evidence provided that communication was often daily and involved both calls and 
messages. 
Mr B believed that he was successfully trading and he persuaded other family members to 
invest money too. But, when he tried to withdraw some of his investment, he was met with 
delays, excuses and, eventually, the account manager stopped responding entirely.
Mr B realised hed been scammed and reported the matter to HSBC in June 2021. It said 
that as the loss happened from his account at the cryptocurrency provider, not his HSBC 
account, it wasnt responsible for his loss.
Mr B referred the matter to our service, but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
thought that while HSBC ought to have done more, it was unlikely that Mr B would have 
been deterred from going ahead, given the contents of some of the messages between him 
and the account manager and Mr Bs previous experience working for the bank.  
Mr Bs representatives disagreed. In summary they said:
- During the call on 29 September 2020, HSBCs advisor failed to ask whether there 
was any third party involved in his investment and whether he intended to send the 
funds from the cryptocurrency platform to anyone else. He had no reason to lie about 
the purpose of the payment.
- It was wrong for the investigator to put any weight on the advisor asking whether a 
third party was involved in the transactions as this question was explicitly in relation 
to impersonation, rather than investment scams.
- Mr B had checked the Financial Conduct Authority website but didnt see anything to 
suggest the trading platform was a scam. He also checked a well-known review 
website and several well-known newspapers  which all suggested the trading 
platform was legitimate.
- Mr B hasnt worked at the bank for many years and his job did not involve authorising 
payments. He also wouldnt have received any training in relation to investment 
scams. So, it was unfair of the investigator to suggest this would have influenced his 
actions. 
- Had Mr B been questioned further and advised of common scams of this nature 
when he visited the branch to make one of the payments then he would not have 
gone ahead.
- It was unfair to suggest that further questioning wouldnt have changed Mr Bs 
decision to go ahead. He would have listened to bank staff.
- Mr B was vulnerable at the time, having recently informed his father about his 
sexuality, which was made particularly difficult by his fathers view of this.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr B. This was clearly a cruel scam which 
has deprived him of a very significant amount of money. However, having considered this 
matter carefully, Im afraid that Ive decided that HSBC arent responsible for his loss. Ill 
explain why. 
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that Mr B is responsible for payments hes made himself. Im also satisfied that 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (which 
requires its signatories to refund victims of authorised push payment scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances) does not cover the transactions Mr B made, as it only 
applies to transactions made to another person. In this case, Mr B sent the payments to his 
own account at a cryptocurrency provider.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.Im satisfied that the activity which took place on Mr Bs account was unusual enough that 
HSBC should have questioned the purpose of some of the payments before allowing them to 
go ahead. That did happen, of course, when the bank spoke to Mr B on 29 September 2020. 
Prior to that point Mr B had only made two payments totalling £1,420.
HSBC didnt do enough in that call. It failed to ask any real questions about the activity Mr B 
was undertaking. It didnt, for example, ask whether anyone was encouraging him to invest 
or how hed found out about the platform. Both questions, if answered honestly, would have 
given HSBC significant cause for concern. Mr B believes that he saw an advert suggesting 
the investment company was endorsed by well-known entrepreneurs. Its very likely that any 
such advert was simply mocked up to appear like the entrepreneurs endorsed the 
investment scheme. I would expect HSBCs staff to know that this is a common tactic 
employed by fraudsters. The involvement of a third-party broker would also have been of 
significant concern to HSBC (though a warning about the broker on the FCA website did not 
appear until after this payment had been made). 
But, Im afraid that a finding that HSBC ought to have done more during that call does not 
necessarily mean that it should be responsible for his loss. 
Im not entirely convinced that Mr B would have been open about the circumstances 
surrounding the payments and neither am I convinced that a warning would have deterred 
him from proceeding  whether there had been a better conversation over the phone or 
HSBC had questioned him further at a later point (for example, when he made a large 
payment in branch). 
I accept that Mr Bs previous experience working in the bank may not have meant he was 
completely up to date with the fast evolving world of scams  though Id be surprised if his 
role didnt involve some knowledge of the subject. But, I dont think this previous experience 
is entirely irrelevant here. From the albeit brief conversation Ive heard, I think Mr B has a 
certain confidence around bank staff. He comes across as someone who understands its 
processes and is generally familiar with its operations. Based on the call, what I know of his 
experience and the conversations he had with the fraudster, I think he considered his level of 
knowledge to be at least on parity with the member of staff he spoke to.
As mentioned, Ive also reviewed the conversations he had with the fraudster. They show 
that Mr B was unhappy that both HSBC and the cryptocurrency provider blocked his 
payments. They also show a certain mistrust of the bank (which, at least partly, seems to be 
based on Mr Bs previous experience working for it) and, in my view, a willingness to answer 
questions that the bank might ask in such a way that the payment would be expedited. 
Ive also noted the closeness of the relationship between Mr B and the account manager. It 
turns very friendly, very quickly. Mr B clearly trusts the account manager and I think he trusts 
him more than the bank  even when there are beginning to be signs that it may not be as 
easy to withdraw his funds from the scheme as he previously thought. Its clear as time went 
on that relationship grew stronger and I think that would have made it even more difficult for 
the bank to successfully stop the scam had it asked more questions around the later, larger, 
payments.
The communication is extensive and theres evidence that Mr B secured, or attempted to 
secure, borrowing from several different parties in order to fund the investment. While I 
havent seen the details of those applications, it seems unlikely that he would have disclosed 
the true reason for the borrowing. All of this means that I think its likely that Mr B would have answered the banks questions in 
a way which meant the payments were most likely to go through. Im not persuaded that Mr 
B would have been willing to go into enough detail about what was happening for the bank to 
be able to give a tailored and specific warning that would be likely to have influenced his 
decision to go ahead with the payments. But, even if he had answered those questions 
entirely openly, given the closeness of the relationship between him and the account 
manager and his confidence in the research hed done (including, he claims, checking the 
FCA website and reading reviews in reputable publications), I dont think Mr B would have 
been deterred from going ahead.
In relation to recovery, as we know that Mr Bs funds were sent off the cryptocurrency 
platform he sent them to, there was no realistic prospect of recovery.  
Finally, I dont mean to in any way diminish the difficult personal circumstances Mr B found 
himself in, but I cant see that the bank would have been aware of any vulnerabilities he had 
prior to the scam, so there was no reason for it to think he might be at higher risk of financial 
harm from fraud. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing for Mr B, but Ive decided that HSBC havent 
acted unfairly in declining to provide a refund to him and I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman