DRN-2160231
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance that 
he signed in September 2016. He says that he noticed rust on the car a few months later 
and he contacted the dealer about it in 2017. He says that he was told that there was a 
manufacturing issue with the car as it hadnt been rust-proofed and that there had been a 
manufacturers recall.
He says that the car was taken to a manufacturers dealer in the summer of 2017 to correct 
the problem with the cars paintwork. But he says he noticed rust appearing again on the car 
in 2019 and the manufacturers dealer arranged for him to take the car to an accident repair 
centre in July 2019 which estimated that the repair work would cost £1,868.98 plus VAT. He 
complained to Renault Finance and then to this service. 
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that something was actually wrong with the car or that the fault was present or 
developing at the time of sale. So she didnt think that there had been a breach of contract 
due to the car being of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he didnt 
expect there to be a known manufacturing issue with the car that has already been recalled 
once and is now getting worse and he doesnt want to take it in for more repairs.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Renault Finance on 9 July 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Renault Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr A was more than three years old, had been driven for 43,838 miles and had a 
price of £8,687. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
Mr A has provided evidence showing the rust on the car. Hes also described the 
issues that hes had with the rust and he says that theres been a manufacturers 
recall about the cars paint and that his car was returned to a manufacturers dealer 
in the summer of 2017 for work on its paintwork. Hes not provided any other 
evidence in support of what he says about that.
He says that the rust has returned and that the manufacturers dealer arranged for 
him to take the car to an accident repair centre in July 2019 which estimated that the 
repair work would cost £1,868.98 plus VAT. Hes provided a copy of that estimate.
On the basis of the evidence that hes provided there was an issue with the cars 
paintwork that was repaired by the manufacturers dealer but the issue has returned 
and further repairs are required. I consider it to be more likely than not that there is 
an issue with the cars paintwork and that its not reasonable to expect a car of this 
age and mileage to have those issues  so I consider that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr A. 
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr A paid a cash deposit of £300 for the 
car and he says that the cars mileage in July 2019 was 72,000. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Renault Finance to allow Mr A to 
reject the car. So I consider that it should end the agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected from him. I also consider that it should refund to him any deposit that 
he paid for the car, with interest. Mr A has been able to use the car so Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Renault Finance to refund to him 
any of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  it can keep them 
as payment for the use that hes had from the car. 
These events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr A. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to also pay him £200 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
So subject to any further representations by Mr A or Renault Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Renault Finance says that it has nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decisions. Mr A says, in summary, that:
hes paid about £5,667 for the car knowing that it would be his at the end of the hire 
purchase agreement;
its not his fault that the car wasnt fit for purpose and he feels that Renault Finance 
will be benefiting from this outcome far greater than him as it will have £5,667 of his 
money and will get the car back and hell be left with roughly £577 and no car which 
is unfair;
£200 compensation doesnt compensate him for being thousands of pounds out of 
pocket and car-less for something that isnt his fault;
Renault Finance sold him the car knowing there was a manufacturing issue with that 
year of car; and
if someone bought a product from a store which had a manufacturing issue with it, 
they wouldnt then take it back and not get their money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
Mr A paid a deposit of £300 for the car in September 2016 and hes made monthly payments 
of £178.22 since then. The cars mileage when it was supplied to him was 43,838 and he 
says that in July 2019 its mileage was 72,000. So, in less than three years, the car had been 
driven for 28,000 miles and Mr A has continued to have use of it since then. 
The agreement had a term of five years and Mr A wouldve been required to continue to 
make monthly payments of £178.22 and there was a final repayment of £372.22 and an 
option to purchase fee of £149 if he wanted to keep the car. That option is still available to 
Mr A if he doesnt accept this decision. 
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A so I find 
that its fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to end the hire purchase agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from him. I sympathise with Mr A for the issues that hes 
had with the car and the frustration that he feels, but I consider that its fair and reasonable 
that he should pay for the use that hes had from the car. In these circumstances I find that 
its fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to keep the monthly payments that hes made 
under the agreement as payment for the use that hes had from the car. Given the use that 
Mr A has had from the car, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Renault Finance to refund any of his monthly payments to him.
Mr A paid a deposit of £300 for the car. I find that its fair and reasonable for Renault Finance 
to refund his deposit to him, with interest. He can then use it as a deposit for a replacement 
car, if he chooses to do so. Mr A has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of 
his issues with the car. I consider that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for that 
distress and inconvenience. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that a 
higher award of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
Putting things right
I consider that the outcome set out in my provisional decision remains fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances so Im not persuaded that I should change that decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Renault Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr A  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr A any deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.  Pay £200 to Mr A to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Renault Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Renault Finance must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman