DRN-3230227
The complaint
Mrs H complains that J D Williams & Company Limited should have defaulted her account.
What happened
Mrs H had a consumer credit mail order account with JD Williams.
In 2018, Mrs H fell into financial difficulties and missed her September and October 
payments. She entered into a debt management plan and agreed reduced repayments to 
gradually bring her debt down over the coming years.
In February 2019, JD Williams sold the debt to another company. The other company 
eventually defaulted the account in March 2020.
Mrs H complained, saying JD Williams should have defaulted her account back in 2018, 
after she entered a debt management plan and it became clear she wouldnt be able to 
make her contractual payments in the long term.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt think JD Williams had acted 
unfairly. Mrs H didnt agree. She felt it was unfair that, by working with JD Williams and 
finding a constructive way to pay towards her debt, shed ended up with a default that would 
now be on her credit file for longer. She pointed out that her other creditors had defaulted 
their respective accounts much sooner.
Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to consider her case, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mrs H and JD Williams a provisional decision on 25 November 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can see why JD Williams chose not to default the account here. Often times, its better to 
hold off from defaulting an account when theres a temporary arrangement in place. Indeed, 
often customers will enter into arrangements in order to stop the account from defaulting. It 
looks like, by not defaulting the account, JD Williams were just trying to be sympathetic to 
Mrs H and were allowing her time to get back on track.
However, here Mrs H had entered into a debt management plan to repay this account over a 
period of over four and a half years. So I would not consider that a particularly temporary 
arrangement. And given that JD Williams sold on the account not long after Mrs H entered 
this plan, it doesnt look like they thought she was likely to get back on track soon either.
Mrs H was already two months in arrears by the time her plan started, and her planned 
repayments were significantly less than the contractual ones, taking her further into arrears 
each month. Her plan was due to go on for a number of years  not just for a short period. 
And in just the second month of her plan, shed had to make an even further reduced 
payment. So I think it would have become clear that her situation was unlikely to improve in 
the near future, to the extent that she would be able to clear her arrears and start meeting 
the contractual repayments again. And so while I think JD Williams were trying to be 
reasonable in holding off from a default, I also think it would have been reasonable for them 
to have defaulted this account before selling it on.
As Mrs H has pointed out, while JD Williams may have been trying to treat her fairly, shes 
ultimately ended up in a worse position by dealing with them constructively compared to if, 
for example, shed just ignored the account and let it default earlier. I dont think thats 
happened because JD Williams did anything substantially wrong or tried to act unfairly. And 
to be clear, Im not telling JD Williams that their normal process is wrong across the board or 
that they need to change it. But nevertheless, Mrs H has ended up in a situation which 
seems rather unfair for her.
So in these particular circumstances, I think it would be fair for JD Williams to register this 
account as having defaulted in January 2019. By that point, Mrs H would have been a 
sufficient number of months behind on her contractual repayments, shed entered into a 
reduced payment plan spanning several years, shed had to pay even less than the reduced 
repayments that had been agreed, and I think it would have been reasonably clear that the 
account was unlikely to get back on track in the foreseeable future.
In order to register the backdated default, it may be necessary for JD Williams to temporarily 
take ownership of the account back from the current debt owner.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
23 December 2021. Mrs H was happy with the provisional decision. JD Williams made 
some further arguments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JD Williams argued that by registering an earlier default, it presented a risk to other credit 
providers as it wasnt an accurate reflection of things. But I think the opposite is more the 
case. As things stand now, credit providers are being presented with a potentially misleading 
default date, as its dated around a year and a half after Mrs H stopped making her 
contractual repayments and doesnt really reflect when things went wrong. And as things 
stand now, this will remain on her file for longer than if shed been defaulted in a more 
reasonable time, which doesnt seem fair. By registering the default earlier, it provides a 
better reflection of what really happened on her account and a better outcome going forward.
JD Williams also claimed that they sold the debt on in order to ensure the interest remained 
frozen for Mrs H. But I dont think that argument holds water. JD Williams were perfectly 
capable of freezing the interest themselves. And realistically, if theyd thought Mrs H was 
likely to clear her arrears and get back to her contractual payments any time soon, they 
would not have sold the account on. The fact that they did only tends to support that her 
account should have been defaulted earlier in her particular case.JD Williams said that ultimately, it was the other company who defaulted the account rather 
than them. And they felt it would be inaccurate to report otherwise. But as I explained above, 
I think registering the earlier default provides a more accurate reflection of Mrs Hs situation. 
To use their own phrasing: ultimately, Mrs H should have been defaulted by JD Williams. 
And its quite normal to adjust credit files in this way when the situation calls for it.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that JD 
Williams should register this account as having defaulted in January 2019.
Putting things right
I direct J D Williams & Company Limited to:
If needed: take ownership of Mrs Hs account back from the current debt owner;
Record the account as having defaulted on the date of Mrs Hs January 2019 
statement;
Then if needed: return the account to the current debt owner.
JD Williams may also work directly with the current debt owner to achieve the same end 
result of the default being backdated to January 2019 on all relevant credit file entries.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint, and direct J D Williams & Company Limited to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman