DRN-4445522
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) only offered a settlement 
for one of her kitchen appliances.
What happened
Mrs C had an appliance protection policy underwritten by D&G. 
In summary, she made a claim under the policy for broken parts of her fridge-freezer and 
D&G provided a choice of replacement. But Mrs C was unhappy with the offers because 
they were for a single unit whereas she had two side-by-side integrated fridge-freezers 
giving the appearance of a single appliance. She thought D&G should replace the full fridge-
freezer arrangement on a like-for-like basis.
D&G said the policy covered one fridge-freezer so thats all it would replace. But Mrs C 
remained unhappy, so she complained.
Mrs C said the appliances were registered on her policy as an American fridge-freezer which 
is one unit. So, she thought D&G should replace both appliances as if they were a single 
appliance. Mrs C also commented that D&G had repaired one of the appliances in the past, 
so it wouldve known that they were two units and shouldve advised her if her policy wasn't 
appropriate. Further, she said the previous owner had bought the original policy so she 
couldnt be held responsible for any misunderstanding about what appliances D&G had 
registered.
D&G issued its final response to Mrs Cs claim confirming it would replace just one of the 
appliances. Still unhappy with the response, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think D&G had done anything wrong. Thats because the policy 
provided cover for one fridge-freezer and D&G had agreed to replace the damaged 
appliance with a similar specification appliance. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Mrs C didnt agree. She made further comment about what the original policy covered and 
who was responsible for the description of her American fridge-freezer on the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Both parties are aware of the 
circumstances, so I wont repeat the issues here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
Appliance cover
The policy shows that Mrs C had cover for one American fridge-freezer. The actual 
arrangement was two separate, but integrated fridge-freezers, built into the kitchen units to 
give the appearance of one large unit. The doors opened in opposite directions to give the 
feel of an American fridge-freezer, but they were distinct, separate appliances.
Mrs C said she didnt buy the policy originally, so she wasn't responsible for the description 
of the registered appliances. D&G no longer had a copy of the sales call because of the time 
that had passed. 
However, Ive listened to the call Mrs C made to D&G in 2022 when she downgraded her 
policy from seven to five appliances. Shed bought two new appliances, so she didnt need 
any additional cover while they were under warranty. During the call, Mrs C confirmed the 
five appliances she wanted on the policy, one of which was an American fridge-freezer. Mrs 
C didnt declare it as two appliances, so Im satisfied she had cover for just one fridge-
freezer.
So, its fair to say Mrs C had two fridge-freezers but her policy only provided cover for one. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that D&G reasonably concluded that it need only replace one of the 
appliances in line with the policy cover.
Previous repair
Mrs C said D&G worked on the appliance before, so it wouldve known that there were two 
single appliances side-by-side. I understand Mrs Cs comment. However, D&G simply 
appointed an engineer to repair the appliance. There wouldnt have been any requirement 
for the engineer to check the appliances listed on the policy. 
I dont find that D&G did anything wrong here.
Claim handling
Ive considered the replacement offers D&G made, and the time taken to handle the claim. 
D&G made its decision about Mrs Cs claim within three weeks, and offered a replacement 
appliance rather than repair because replacement parts were no longer available. I havent 
seen any evidence that D&G caused any avoidable delays which contributed to the lack of 
availability. The replacement appliance it offered was of a similar specification - confirmed by 
the manufacturer  and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, Im satisfied 
that D&G handled Mrs Cs claim fairly.
Overall, while Mrs C may have considered her side-by-side fridge-freezers as one appliance, 
they were two individual appliances which could be used independently of each other. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that D&G did anything wrong by agreeing to replace just one of 
the two fridge-freezers.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Im 
not asking Domestic & General Insurance Plc to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman