DRN-2446473
The complaint
 Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) misdiagnosed issues with his boiler 
which resulted in him carrying out unnecessary work, under his home emergency policy.
What happened
 Mr M contacted BG as he was experiencing problems with his boiler. BG sent an engineer 
who inspected the boiler and diagnosed that there was a leak in the system. Mr M told the 
engineer that he had recently replaced some radiators in his home. The engineer said that 
the leak was probably due to the third-partys work and advised Mr M to contact that 
engineer. He also said that BG wouldnt be responsible for repairing the leak. 
Mr M contacted the third-party engineer who had installed the radiators and he checked the 
pipework. He couldnt find an issue with this, but further investigations attempting to locate 
the leak, meant that new pipework had to be installed. As a result, Mr M had to replace 
carpets, re-decorate and experienced disruption. Mr M said that he had to pay £3849.29 for 
the work that was carried out. 
Unfortunately this didnt resolve the leak. So the third-party engineer inspected the boiler to 
find that the problem was there all along. Mr M contacted BG and it sent out another 
engineer who inspected the boiler and found that the heat exchanger was faulty and 
required replacing. This was replaced and it resolved the issue. 
Mr M complained to BG that the misdiagnosis by the first engineer resulted in him carrying 
out unnecessary work at a great expense. BG offered a £50 goodwill gesture as it 
recognised that it could have done more. Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and referred 
a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He 
concluded that BG hadnt treated Mr M fairly. He said that its engineer had misdiagnosed the 
issue with the boiler and as a result, Mr M had to carry out unnecessary work at his own 
expense. For this, he said that BG ought to put matters right by reimbursing Mr M for his 
costs on production of the invoices.  He also thought it should pay Mr M compensation of 
£100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
BG didnt agree with our investigator as it said that whilst there was an element of 
misdiagnosis from the first engineer, Mr Ms third-party engineer had also misdiagnosed the 
fault, but had gone onto carry out work that wasnt needed and BG couldnt be held 
responsible for this. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M had a policy which included an annual service and unlimited repairs of his boiler if 
there was a problem with it. The main issues for me to consider are whether BG failed to 
correctly diagnose the issue with Mr Ms boiler and if it did, whether it is responsible for the 
consequential losses that he incurred.
BG disputes that its engineer advised Mr M that there was no issue with his boiler and that 
the likely source of the leak was in the pipework. Mr Ms recollection is that when the first BG 
engineer attended, he inspected the boiler and told Mr M that there wasnt an issue with the 
boiler. Mr M said that he informed him that he had recently installed some radiators. And it 
was at this point that the BG engineer advised him that the issue mustve been as a result of 
the installation, and that BG wouldnt be responsible for repairing the leak. 
Mr M said that because of the advice given from the BG engineer, he contacted the third-
party engineer to check the installation. He ultimately found the issue to be the boiler but 
only after he had re-run the pipe work. 
BG has said that it should not be held liable for the costs that Mr M incurred as a result of 
getting the third -party engineer to investigate the leak. Thats because it considers that 
engineer ought to have found the fault with the boiler much sooner and before he re-ran the 
pipework. But, I dont think that this is fair or reasonable as Mr Ms decision to contact the 
third-party engineer was most likely made following the advice given from the BG engineer. 
And the investigations carried out by the engineer, were based on Mr M having been told 
that there was no issue with the boiler. 
I think that this is further supported by the internal note from the BG engineer that mentioned 
that he had told Mr M to contact them if the third-party engineer hadnt located the leak.  So I 
am satisfied that Mr M followed the advice given by the BG engineer. 
Also, having reviewed the internal emails from BG, I think that it accepted that the first 
engineer had failed to carry out basic checks on the boiler during the inspection of it:
 . We have clearly not satisfied our contract with the customer and I feel shirked 
responsibility by not doing the basic checks before advising the customer to get his 
contractor back, had we done this then no damage to carpets would have happened and 
pipes would not have been boxed in and so we need to have some accountability here.
So, I think that but for the advice given to Mr M from the BG engineer, its most likely that, he 
wouldnt have carried out the work.  I also think this shows that BG were aware of the failure 
of its engineer to carry out the basic checks, which meant that Mr M proceeded with 
unnecessary work. So I am satisfied that BG ought to put matters right. 
I understand that BG had offered £50 as a goodwill gesture, as recognition that it ought to 
have done more. But as I have said, had its engineer correctly diagnosed the issue with the 
boiler, then I think its most likely Mr M wouldnt have had to have the work done. 
Putting things rightBased on the evidence Ive seen, I think its reasonable for BG to put Mr M back into the 
position that he wouldve been in - had its engineer correctly diagnosed the problem with his 
boiler. So Im persuaded it is fair for BG to reimburse Mr M the costs he incurred for the work 
that was carried out, on receipt of invoices showing these costs. 
I have next considered whether BG ought to pay compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused given the disruption that Mr M experienced. Mr M describes experiencing a level of 
disruption and upheaval due to the work that was done. He also had to replace carpet. I 
appreciate that this wouldve caused inconvenience as a result. And I think that an award 
recognising the distress and inconvenience caused is warranted. So I think that £100 is a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation, in the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
To put matters right, I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £3849.29, on receipt 
of invoices.
British Gas Insurance Limited should also pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the invoice fees and compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on them from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year
simple.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires British Gas Insurance Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, British Gas Insurance Limited must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax they deduct if he asks them for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman