DRN-4094346
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt protect him 
from a scam. 
What happened
What Mr H says:
Mr H is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will refer to the complainant as Mr H.
Mr H had an account with Virgin. Unfortunately, he had recently become widowed and 
wanted to find somewhere to live with the money from his late wifes estate. He decided to 
buy a mobile home for his retirement. He agreed to buy one from a company (who I will call 
X Ltd). He met a representative of X Ltd, who showed him the mobile home he was due to 
buy and he explained it would be moved onto a concrete pad, given a garden, and hooked 
up to mains gas and sewage. Mr H lived near the site. 
On 6 November 2021, Mr H wrote a cheque for £8,500 payable to X Ltd  this was for the 
deposit on the mobile home. It was debited to his account on 9 November 2021. On 18 
November 2021, he wrote a cheque for £76,500 payable to X Ltd  this was the balance of 
the completion monies for the mobile home. It was debited to his account on 19 November 
2021. 
When Mr H later went to the site, there wasnt a concrete pad, nor a garden, nor mains gas 
and sewage. The mobile home was sinking. He wasnt prepared to move to the site without 
those amenities and decided to cut his losses. He sold the mobile home for £20,000  a loss 
of £65,000.
Mr H said he had been scammed out of his money, as the salesperson had misrepresented 
the terms of the purchase. He said he was in a vulnerable position at the time  due to the 
recent death of his wife and that he had been taken in by a known fraudster who had a 
history of defrauding people. He wasnt computer savvy  and therefore couldnt have been 
expected to have done any online research into the operation. He reported it to the police 
and Action Fraud.
Mr H complained that Virgin shouldve protected him from the scam. He said that the 
payments were out of line with his normal account activity and shouldve been picked up and 
questioned by Virgin. If that had happened, he said Virgin wouldve put him on alert that this 
was a scam, and the payments couldve been stopped. He said Virgin should refund the 
money, plus 8% per annum interest.
What Virgin say:
Virgin said the situation was a buyer/seller dispute, and not a scam. Mr H had bought the 
mobile home and added services, but that didnt mean to say it was a scam. In their 
conversations with Mr H, he told Virgin he had viewed the mobile home and agreed to pay 
the deposit by cheque. He then visited the site to see the work being carried out. Despite 
being concerned about the work, he completed the purchase by writing the second cheque 
for the balance. It was only after the purchase was finalised, and he got the keys, that he 
became aware of the issues.
Virgin said both cheques were paid to a limited company - which was registered at 
Companies House. The salesperson named by Mr H wasnt shown as an official of the 
company. They said that Mr H had written the cheque in favour of X Ltd at a time when he 
had questioned some points about the purchase but was still happy to go ahead. Therefore, 
even if Virgin had called Mr H, they felt that he wouldve gone ahead anyway.
Virgin paid compensation of £100 because theyd taken longer than expected to investigate 
Mr Hs complaint.
Our investigation so far:
Our investigator said that as the cheques were made payable to a legitimate company, it 
couldnt be considered a scam. A member of the sites staff had misrepresented what he 
was buying. She considered that even if Virgin had intervened and questioned the cheque 
payments, he wouldve gone ahead - as he discovered the problems after he made the 
payments. She said that a chargeback claim couldnt be pursued  as that only applied to 
payments by debit card or credit card, and Mr H had made the payments using cheques. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said there was clear evidence that the representative at the site had 
misled many other purchasers, who had also lost money. If Virgin had questioned the 
payments, and discovered the involvement of the salesperson, they wouldve uncovered the 
fraud and advised Mr H not to proceed. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in question that Mr H authorised and consented to the payments in this case. He 
wrote and signed the cheques. So he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this 
case. This is because it doesnt apply to payments made by cheque.
 
Civil dispute or scam
A scam is where a customer was deceived into making a payment to another person for 
what they thought were legitimate purposes but turned out to be fraudulent. In this case, I 
need to decide whether this was a scam, or a civil dispute. If it was a civil dispute, we 
wouldnt expect Virgin to have got involved.Examples of a civil dispute may be where a consumer has paid a legitimate person or 
business but hasnt received the goods or service they were promised or is unhappy with the 
goods or service they have received.
And in this case, having considered the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, I consider it is 
about a civil dispute, and not a scam.
I say this because:
Mr H said he met the representative of the business, face to face, and was shown the 
mobile home he was going to buy. He was told that it would be mounted on a 
concrete pad, have a large garden, and be connected to mains gas and sewage. I 
havent seen a contract setting out what was agreed though. Mr H viewed the mobile 
home in person at the site. 
He then paid the deposit of £8,500 on 6 November 2021 and the balance of the 
completion monies of £76,500 on 18 November 2021. This was on the assumption 
that the extra work would be done. 
When he later turned up at the site, he discovered the work hadnt been done. So Mr 
H didnt get what he expected. But this doesnt mean X Ltd set out with the intention 
of defrauding Mr H. 
Mr H says he reported the matter to the police, but I havent seen any evidence from 
the police that suggests it took further action or reached the conclusion that Mr H was 
the victim of a scam. And I havent seen evidence from any other party, like trading 
standards, to suggest Mr H was the victim of a scam. 
He paid the money to a legitimate business. I looked at Companies House records  
and X Ltd was a registered company in November 2021 and had been since 
December 2019. X Ltd has also filed accounts. 
Mr H has provided information in relation to the representative of X Ltd he met which 
shows the representative was disqualified from being a director of a company and 
subsequently acted as a shadow director of another company. The representative 
had also been convicted of fraud. Ive considered this information carefully but dont 
consider it demonstrates, on the balance of probability, that when X Ltd (not the 
representative) accepted Mr Hs payments the company never intended to complete 
the work Mr H says was agreed. 
Therefore, its reasonable for me to consider that this is a civil dispute between Mr H and X 
Ltd  he paid for services and goods which X Ltd didnt complete. And so, I dont think Virgin 
had any obligation to treat the payments as possible scam payments. And the guidance and 
rules that Virgin must follow in cases of scams dont apply.
In such civil matters, it is for Mr H to pursue other ways to resolve his dispute, including 
contacting the police and Action Fraud  which he has done. 
I considered whether Mr H could make a chargeback claim  but this would only be possible 
if the payments had been made by debit or credit card. And because the payments were 
made by cheque, unfortunately this route isnt open to Mr H.
Given my conclusion that this is a civil dispute, Virgin arent liable. But for the sake of completeness Ive considered what I think would most likely have happened if Virgin had 
intervened when the payments were made. I consider Mr H would have said he was buying 
a mobile home; had met a representative of the company he was buying from at the site and 
had seen the mobile home. Given this information, and the fact Mr H was paying a company, 
I dont believe Virgin would have had any concerns. Mr H has suggested that Virgin should 
have looked up the representative of X Ltd that met Mr H and seen information showing hed 
acted dishonestly in the past, but I think this is an unrealistic expectation.  
Mr H has lost a lot of money and at a difficult time in his life. Im sure this must have been 
upsetting for him. He will therefore be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Virgin to do anything here.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman