DRN-1455882
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Nationwide Building Society refused her request for a payment 
holiday on her mortgage. To settle the complaint Miss H would like Nationwide to agree to 
her request.
What happened
Miss H has a mortgage taken out with Nationwide in 2008. The mortgage contract provides 
that, subject to meeting Nationwides conditions, a payment holiday of between 3-12 months 
may be available on all or part of the monthly repayments.
Miss H says shed had a previous payment holiday, when she visited a sick friend in 
Australia. In the autumn of 2019 Miss H asked for another payment holiday, so she could go 
back to Australia to visit the same friend. 
Miss H says that she went into her local branch where she spoke to someone who said it 
would be agreed, but Nationwides head office declined the request, based on internal credit 
scoring. Miss H said she was asked to send in her credit file, so she obtained a copy of this 
and sent it in. Nationwide still declined the request and Miss H cant understand why, as she 
says there is nothing wrong with her credit.
In its final response letter Nationwide confirmed that the application hadnt met its internal 
credit score, which is why it was declined. Nationwide accepted that asking Miss H to send 
in a copy of her credit file had been unnecessary. Nationwide paid her £75 compensation for 
this, and refunded the fee of £4.70 shed paid to send a copy of her credit file.
Miss H was still unhappy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Nationwide was under no obligation to agree to a payment holiday.
The investigator thought the total compensation of £79.70 paid to Miss H was fair for the 
inconvenience to which shed been put by needlessly sending in a copy of her credit file.
Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said her credit score is very 
high, and had been three years ago when shed previously had a payment holiday. Miss H 
says that she has no arrears on her mortgage, and three years ago her reason for a 
payment holiday was that she was visiting the same person (who she now describes as a 
relative). Miss H says it makes no sense to turn her down for another payment holiday for 
the same reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer dated 10 September 2008, and in particular the section on 
payment holidays. This says that a payment holiday may be granted. In other words, it is at 
Nationwides discretion. There is no guarantee that a request for a payment holiday will be 
approved.
In its final response letter Nationwide confirmed that the application had not met its internal 
credit scoring. I think there has been some confusion about what this means. It is not the 
same as a credit file from an external agency such as Equifax or Experian. It is Nationwides 
own internal assessment, and is based on a number of factors, not simply payments due 
and received.
Ive looked at Nationwides criteria for payment holidays. Ive accepted this information in 
confidence  and Im entitled to do this as its commercially-sensitive.  After considering this 
information, in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to decline the 
request for a payment holiday. This was a legitimate exercise of Nationwides commercial 
judgment. 
Miss H may feel Ive said Nationwide can do whatever it wishes as long as its making its 
own commercial decisions. I dont believe this is the case. Rather, we dont interfere if 
businesses are exercising their discretion fairly. Im satisfied this is the case here.
Furthermore, although Nationwide had granted a previous payment holiday which Miss H 
used to visit Australia to visit a friend who was ill, there was no obligation on Nationwide 
three years later to grant another payment holiday for the same reason. 
Its possible Nationwides criteria has changed since the first payment holiday was granted. 
Ive not looked at that, as I dont need to. All I need to decide is whether Nationwide has 
acted fairly in turning down this specific payment holiday. And Im satisfied, for the reasons 
given above, that Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably.
Miss H says she was told at a local branch that the application had been agreed. There isnt 
any record of the branch visit, and so I cant comment on what was said. But Im satisfied 
that staff in branches dont have the power to grant payment holidays. I note Miss H did, in 
fact, contact the relevant department at Nationwide to discuss her request. 
I also note that Nationwide told Miss H to send in her credit report, which it now accepts was 
unnecessary. I agree Nationwide shouldnt have done this. It caused Miss H to think that this 
might change Nationwides decision, when in fact it had no bearing on it. As a result, Miss H 
was caused trouble and inconvenience. 
Nationwide reimbursed the cost of sending the credit report (£4.70) and paid £75 for distress 
and inconvenience. I think this is fair in all the circumstances, and I dont require Nationwide 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman