DRN-2709672
The complaint
 Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Classic Card (Amazon) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2019, Amazon agreed to give Mr K a credit card with a limit of £500. The account 
went into arrears and was sold to a debt collection agency in February 2020.
Mr K complained that he shouldnt have been given the card by Amazon. They didnt do the 
proper credit checks  he had a poor credit record and couldnt afford the card account.
Amazon said Mr K had passed their credit checks. In his application Mr K stated his income 
was £24000 per annum, with monthly outgoings of £500. He had other unsecured debt of 
£9500. There were no arrears or defaults showing on his credit profile. The fact that he had 
other debts wouldnt have stopped Amazon from lending to him.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said Amazon hadnt acted fairly. 
She could see that Mr K had a history of short-term loans and credit cards. So  Amazon 
shouldve done more checks. She said that Amazon should refund all interest and fees and 
come to an arrangement for Mr K to settle the balance left. Any adverse credit markers 
should be removed. And she recommended a payment of £50 for distress and 
inconvenience for the worry the debt had caused Mr K.
Amazon disagreed. They asked that Mr Ks complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr K says he shouldnt have been given the card by Amazon in the first place. He says he 
had a poor credit record  and they shouldve seen this. His debt was sold to a debt 
collection agency. He cant afford to repay the debt and wants it to be written off.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Amazon acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
Amazon have told us that Mr K passed their credit checks. They could see that he had other 
debts of £9500  but he wasnt in default and payments were up to date. He told them his 
salary was £24000 per annum, with costs of £500 per month. So, they were happy to give 
Mr K a card with a fairly low limit of £500.
Ive looked at the application data that Amazon looked at. It does show debts of £9500 and 
seven active accounts. And their affordability assessment as at April 2019 (when the card 
was approved) actually shows no other debt. But the same data for May 2019 shows other 
debts of £14334, with 5 active Payday loans, and 11 other active accounts. It doesnt seem 
possible that this data wasnt available to Amazon one month before  but I cant comment 
why that was.
Mr K showed us his credit report. Looking at this, it shows a lot of credit agreements active 
at the time the Amazon card was approved  approximately 17 were active or had been 
settled (repaid). I could see that three were in default or arrears. This confirms to me that 
there was enough evidence to show that Mr K had a lot of other debts  and therefore, 
Amazon shouldve at least asked him about those, and their affordability, before giving him 
the card. I accept that the limit of £500 was relatively low, but that doesnt mean that 
Amazon shouldnt have done the appropriate and proportionate checks. But  they didnt. 
So  I agree that Amazon shouldve completed more affordability checks and had they done 
so, they may well have not given Mr K the card.
Putting things right
 Mr K has had the use of the money borrowed on the card  so its not fair to ask Amazon to 
waive the balance. But, it is reasonable to put Mr K back in the position he wouldve been in 
had he not been given the card. So, Amazon should refund all interest and fees charged to 
the card since it was issued. And  Mr K and Amazon should come to a mutually satisfactory 
agreement as to how he should repay the resulting debt. Any adverse entries on Mr Ks 
credit file should be removed. And, because this debt has clearly been a worry to him, I 
agree that Amazon should pay compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience. 
(continued)
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. 
NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Classic Card must:
Refund interest and charges debited to the card account since it was opened.
Come to a mutually acceptable arrangement with Mr K for repayment of the balance 
on the account.
Remove any markers on Mr Ks credit file.
Pay Mr K compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience. This should be paid 
to Mr K, rather than to his card account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman