DRN-4079181
The complaint
Mr C has complained about a conditional sale agreement he had with Moneybarn No.1 Ltd. 
He says he shouldnt have been given the agreement. 
Mr C has had representation throughout but, to keep things simple, Ill refer to Mr C. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in June 2016 to acquire a 
car. The car cost £12,500. Mr C made an advance payment of £170. So there was £12,330 
credit and Moneybarn charged £10,992.11 interest. Mr C was due to pay back the 
agreement over five years with payments of around £400. 
Repayments were made to the agreement without issue for a few months, but Moneybarn 
sent a default notice in February 2017 because of missed repayments. It sent a termination 
notice in March 2017. In order to keep the car, Mr C entered into a consent order in May 
2017 that had been drawn up via the court. The consent order said Mr C could keep the car 
under certain conditions.  
Mr C was required to make 12 payments of around £600 followed by 36 payments of around 
£400. He made payments towards the debt, but some were missed. And in January 2020 
Moneybarn recovered the car. It was sold for £6,200 and Mr C was left with a balance of 
around £3,000. 
Mr C complained the agreement was unaffordable and that Moneybarn shouldnt have 
granted him the finance. 
Moneybarn didnt agree, and Mr C referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. One 
of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He didnt think Moneybarns 
affordability checks were reasonable or proportionate. And he thought that if it had carried 
out proportionate checks, it wouldnt have lent to Mr C. To resolve the complaint, our 
investigator said Moneybarn could keep £12,330  the amount of credit. He said it should 
refund what it had received above this amount together with interest. And that it should 
remove adverse information from Mr Cs credit file regarding the agreement. 
Moneybarn responded to ask if we would reconsider the redress because it didnt think it fair 
the auction proceeds were also added to the refund. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr C acquired the car under a regulated conditional sale agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Affordability
I think there are two key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Moneybarns actions disadvantaged Mr C in any way, Ill go onto consider what I 
think is a fair way to put things right.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that Moneybarn is 
required to follow. When deciding to offer finance to Mr C, Moneybarn was required to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could sustainably repay the 
borrowing. 
The checks that Moneybarn were required to carry out had to be borrower focused. So 
instead of seeing how statistically likely Mr C was to repay the borrowing, it needed to 
assess whether he could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking into account his personal 
circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient 
information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to):
The type, amount and duration of the credit. 
The frequency and size of the repayments.
The total amount payable and total charge for credit. 
The interest rate and any other costs which may be payable. 
Any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising from a failure to 
make payment. 
So I think the checks needed to take into account Mr Cs personal circumstances. 
In this case, Mr C was asked to pay back over £23,000 over five years with payments of 
nearly £400. So this is a significant commitment. 
Moneybarn tells us it carried out a full credit search before deciding to lend to Mr C. It said 
the search detailed Mr Cs borrowing levels, the repayment history, and details of arrears 
and past defaulted accounts. Moneybarn also verified Mr Cs monthly income of around 
£2,900 by reviewing payslips. It reviewed his income against his employment type and was 
satisfied it was in line. It also said it applied a calculation to allow for non-discretionary 
expenditure. 
Moneybarn says Mr Cs borrowing levels were within its lending criteria. It said there were no 
recent missed payments. It said it could see Mr C had defaulted on previous borrowing, the most recent of which was entered into 21 months prior to the application, and that these had 
been repaid at the point of application. Moneybarn also said there were two County Court 
Judgments (CCJs) on file, the most recent having been entered 22 months prior to 
application. It said it calculated Mr Cs maximum affordable repayment at £721.89. It also 
highlighted Mr C had signed the agreement that said he could afford the repayments. 
Weve not been provided the evidence of the credit search that was carried out. But Ive 
thought about what Moneybarn has said and what its likely to have seen. Im mindful that 
around the time he entered into the agreement with Moneybarn Mr C was paying towards 
short term lending, which is indicative that he might have been struggling to meet his 
commitments. And although the default and CCJs had happened more than a year before 
Moneybarn offered the agreement, on balance I think there was enough of an indication that 
further checks would have been appropriate. As Ive said above, this was a significant 
commitment over a moderately long term. Moneybarn didnt have much information about 
Mr Cs expenditure. So Im not persuaded the checks it carried out were proportionate. 
Ive thought about what would have happened had Moneybarn carried out proportionate 
checks. Mr C has provided us with his bank statements from around the time he applied for 
the agreement. These provide some detail about his income and expenditure. I appreciate 
different checks show different things and that Moneybarn may have chosen to look at 
something else, but I think the statements are fair for me to consider when weighing up 
Mr Cs financial circumstances at the time he entered into the agreement. 
Like our investigator has pointed out, Mr Cs average income for the two months preceding 
the Moneybarn agreement was around £2,900. And I can see he had regular expenditure of 
around £2,500, which doesnt include everything he paid for. So I dont think its shown he 
had enough disposable income to sustainably pay off the agreement. So I dont think 
Moneybarn should have granted the finance. Moneybarn hasnt disagreed with this.  
Ive gone on to think about whether Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in another 
way, and to decide what it needs to do to put things right. 
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have granted the loan, I dont think it fair for it to be able 
to recover interest or charges. But I think it fair Moneybarn is able to recoup the credit it 
granted. I also agree with our investigator that it doesnt seem fair Moneybarn is able to profit 
from an unfair lending decision where Mr C is left without an asset. So I agree Moneybarn 
should refund everything its received  including from the auction proceeds  over and 
above the credit it lent, together with interest. Moreover, for the reasons given above, I also 
think it fair Moneybarn remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Cs 
credit file. 
Moneybarn has indicated it thinks the redress has been calculated incorrectly and that it 
should only have to refund what Mr C paid over and above an amount for fair usage, which I 
think it to mean the purchase price in this case. Its referred to other upheld car finance 
lending cases at our service where the redress has involved cars being handed back to the 
finance company (where the consumer hadnt already paid up to the purchase price), and 
the consumer only being held liable for fair usage  without having to pay interest or 
charges. Its also referred to cases where consumers keep the car but get reimbursed 
everything theyve paid over and above the purchase price. Ive thought about what Moneybarn has said. While we look at each case individually, I do 
want to point out that the scenarios its mentioned arent reflective of what happened here. 
Mr C had paid over and above the purchase price of the car, but Moneybarn recovered it 
from him. The car has now been sold on, so Im unable to direct its return and direct 
Moneybarn to refund the interest and charges. Hes left without an asset he otherwise would 
have had. So I find the refund of the auction proceeds to be fair. 
Moneybarns statement says that, less the deposit, it received £21,161.62  including from 
the auction proceeds. Deducting the credit it granted (£12,330) from that amount leaves an 
overpayment of £8,831.62. So, in all the circumstances, I think it fair Mr C is reimbursed this 
amount to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Ltd to:
Refund all payments received (including the auction proceeds) above the amount of 
credit provided in line with the above calculation. 
Interest* should be added to the above amounts at a rate of 8% a year simple, from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Cs credit file. 
*If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman