DRN-3038567
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the transfer of his Barclays Smart Investor 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) to his new provider (K).
What happened
Mr S, via K, requested the transfer of £96,000 cash held in his ISA to K on 6 May 2020.
In June 2020, Mr S complained to Barclays about the delay to the transfer completing but 
they found no record of his request.
After speaking to K, Barclays established the transfer request had been sent to an email not 
associated with Barclays Smart Investor. The correct email address was then provided to K 
who resubmitted the request on 23 June 2020.
Following further delays, Mr S complained again prior to Barclays completing the transfer on 
19 August 2020. K received the funds the same day.
Mr S said his intention had been to invest the money as soon as the transfer completed, and 
the delays meant hed lost out financially.
Barclays upheld the complaint saying K had initially sent his request to the wrong email 
address but that after receiving it to the correct address on 23 June 2020, theyd caused a 
delay to the transfer completing. 
Barclays explained they have up to 15 business days to complete a transfer of this kind 
however on this occasion Mr Ss transfer had taken 37 calendar days longer.
Without evidence of the trades placed when the transfer completed, Barclays offered to pay 
interest on the amount of the transfer at 8% simple for the delay between 23 June 2020 and 
19 August 2020 plus a further £250.
Mr S rejected Barclays offer saying his transfer request was made on 6 May 2020, 
disagreeing hed not provided evidence the funds were invested as soon as it was received 
by K. Because Mr S remained unhappy, he asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
investigate.
Barclays believed theyd made a fair and appropriate offer to resolve the complaint but 
acknowledged theyd failed to refund administration fees charged after the transfer should 
have started, so offered to reimburse Mr S an additional £36. Barclays also increased their 
offer of compensation to £350.
Our Investigator looked into things. She didnt think she could fairly say Barclays were 
entirely at fault or responsible for the delay prior to 23 June 2020 so she didnt ask them to 
do anything more for this part. But she said Barclays needed to do more to put things right 
for the delays after 23 June 2020.
Our Investigator saw no reason to doubt that Mr S intended to invest the money earlier had 
the transfer not been delayed. So, she said Barclays should contact K to calculate if the 
funds had been invested 15 business days after 23 June 2020, what the value wouldve 
been on 19 August 2020. She said if the value was greater than the 8% Barclays had 
offered, they should pay this amount instead.
Our Investigator thought Barclays offer of £350 compensation, along with refunding the £36 
fees was fair, so didnt asked them to increase this.
Mr S disagreed with the date from which Barclays should be responsible for the delays, 
saying they should have a responsibility to monitor the email address the original request 
was sent to. He said K had emailed and telephoned so he thinks they made every effort, 
compared to Barclays making none at all, to expedite the transfer.
Barclays accepted what our Investigator said but after receiving information from K, they 
said not all of the transferred funds had been invested immediately, and instead some of the 
trades had not been placed until the following month.
Because of the information provided, our Investigator revised her opinion saying Barclays 
should calculate Mr S loss based on the additional units that couldve been brought had 
each trade been made 36 calendar days prior, following the same investment pattern that K 
went on to make.
Mr S disagreed saying the amount wouldve been invested immediately in its entirety had the 
funds been received on time, also arguing this may have led him to divide his money 
between funds that have since out performed Ks managed service.
Further, after receiving Barclays offer Mr S pointed out that the initial email address used by 
K must have been live because Barclays eventually responded to K from it. Mr S said 
because the email was clearly live and being monitored, he couldnt agree Barclays werent 
responsible for his loss from 15 days after the original transfer request was sent by K.
Mr S didnt agree to our Investigators proposal as he didnt think hed been treated fairly but 
he did say he would accept, without prejudice, £3,000 in order to settle the matter.
Because Barclays didnt agree to Mr S request, and he remained dissatisfied with our 
Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate it wont be the outcome Mr S was hoping for, Im upholding this complaint 
and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think its important to say that Ive kept in mind that as an informal service we cant 
always be exact in the redress we suggest - our aim is to provide resolutions that are fair 
and reasonable. Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied my decision is a fair way of 
putting things right.
I note Mr S has previously said he intends to ask Barclays to pay his full hourly rate as 
compensation. This isnt something wed usually do in cases brought in someones personal 
capacity  as one persons free time isnt worth more than anothers. Instead well consider 
the overall inconvenience someone may have experienced including spending time dealing 
with a matter.I consider there to be two points that form the crux of this complaint. From which date were 
Barclays responsible for the delays in transferring Mr S funds. And once thats decided, 
what do they need to do to put it right.
First, its not in dispute Barclays caused a delay. Theyve accepted they shouldve completed 
the transfer within 15 days of 23 June 2020. Mr S thinks the transfer shouldve been 
completed within 15 days of K sending their original request on 6 May 2020. But I dont 
agree.
When completing a transfer, its normal for the requesting business to check TISA for the 
contact details of where instructions should be sent. K said there were multiple entries for 
Barclays at the time but the details for each were very sparse with no telephone numbers 
and very few email addresses.
Its understandable there were no telephone numbers listed, K acknowledge each entry 
explained that due to Covid-19, Barclays would not be taking calls at that time.
So, Ive thought about the email address used. K say there were very few email addresses 
listed so they used one they knew had worked in the past. Unfortunately, Barclays have 
confirmed this address was not associated with Barclays Smart Investor  the type of 
account Mr S held  so they didnt receive the request.
It may have been the case that K had no reason to suspect that the address used wouldnt 
work, it had worked for them before. But ultimately, it wasnt an email address provided by 
Barclays on TISA for other businesses to use at that time.
I understand only very few email addresses may have been listed but K only needed one. 
Had the request been sent to an address provided by Barclays on TISA I may have been 
persuaded it should be considered the request had been received, but it wasnt.
Ive also thought about the fact Barclays did eventually reply to question the request, by 
which time K had already spoken to them and obtained the correct address.
Of course, it would have been helpful had they done so sooner. But Barclays have said the 
email address used wasnt being regularly monitored, and because it wasnt an address 
theyd provided; I cant hold them responsible for not doing so.
So, Im satisfied Barclays arent responsible for any delay before 15 days after receiving the 
request to the correct address.
Next, Ive thought about how Barclays should compensate Mr S for the delay they did cause.
I appreciate Mr S ISA is a managed service, so he may not have had control over when the 
money was invested, and K may have invested differently  for instance in other funds - had 
the money arrived earlier. Mr S has also said himself he mightve divided his money between 
funds.
I cant be sure exactly what wouldve happened had K received Mr S money earlier than 
they did. With this in mind, Ive had to consider what I think to be a fair and reasonable way 
of putting things right.
Had K been able to follow the same investment pattern they did do after receiving Mr S 
fund, 36 days earlier, he wouldve been able to purchase more units in some instances and 
overall his investment would have been worth more.
Therefore, I think Barclays should pay Mr S the amount he would require in order to buy 
those additional units on the date of settlement. Mr S can then choose to buy the units to put 
him back in the position he would have been in  or as close to it as I find fair and 
reasonable - had K been able to follow the same investment pattern earlier.
I acknowledge Mr S has spent time dealing with this matter and it no doubt caused him 
distress and inconvenience. That said, I do consider Barclays offer of £350 to compensate for the delays and the time taken to deal with the matter as being fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Finally, Barclays acknowledged Mr S had been charged further administration fees of £36 
because of the delay they caused. I agree Barclays should refund Mr S £36.
In summary, Im satisfied Barclays were responsible for any delay caused after 23 June 
2020 and Ive set out below how I think they should put this right. But I dont find them 
responsible for any delay prior to 23 June 2020.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by:
Calculating the number of additional units Mr S wouldve been able to buy 36 days 
prior to when each investment was made.
Pay Mr S the amount it would cost him to buy those additional units on the day of 
calculation.
Pay Mr S an additional £386, consisting of £350 compensation and a reimbursement 
of £36 fees.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman