DRN-4500704
The complaint
This complaints about Mr Ms mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
Mr M is unhappy that NatWest debited his account with ground rent charges owed to his 
then freeholder, and only allowed him twelve months to pay the amount.
What happened
By way of a decision dated 6 December 2023, I explained why our power to consider this 
complaint was confined to one issue; that being, the fairness or otherwise of NatWests 
refusal to extend the 12-month term for repaying the debts created by its payment of the 
various freeholder charges referenced in the June 2021 final response.
Our investigator didnt consider this to be unfair, given the wider circumstances and the way 
Mr Ms account had been conducted over time. Mr M has asked for this to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman and I do that here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed charges were added to Mr Ms account in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage account. Whether they were added fairly and reasonably falls 
outside my remit here, for the reasons given in my jurisdiction decision. 
Its NatWest policy to require such charges to be repaid within twelve months, rather than 
over the mortgage term generally. Thats because they represent debts that, by their nature, 
occur annually. Whether that policy is fundamentally unfair, or has been applied unfairly in 
this instance, also falls outside my remit here, for the reasons set out in my jurisdiction 
decision.
So the situation where NatWest has added freeholder charges to Mr Ms account (in 
accordance with the mortgage terms) and then insisted he repay them within twelve months 
(in accordance with its policy) is, for the purposes of this decision, a given. All I consider 
here is whether, in that given situation, NatWest should have been willing to relax its policy 
position by agreeing Mr Ms request for more time to pay the charges referenced in the 
June 2021 final response from NatWest.
This wasnt something NatWest couldnt do; the bank can exercise discretion and be flexible 
if it judges it appropriate to do so. Normally, we wont interfere with how a business exercise 
its commercial judgement, but there are exceptions to that general approach, if we consider 
that a business has treated a customer unfairly. 
However, Im not persuaded that has happened here. Thats because NatWests policy 
already has the flexibility to extend the period for repaying such charges to help borrowers 
manage the situation. NatWest had already done this as a concession for Mr M in the past.  
Mr M was still paying off an earlier tranche of charges when the disputed tranche of charges 
was debited, and he made the same request. And that was the sticking point for NatWest. 
The flexibility built into NatWests policy doesnt go as far as allowing an extension of time to 
pay a second tranche of charges when an earlier tranche is still outstanding and being 
repaid.
Having thought very carefully about this, I dont think it was unfair treatment by NatWest to 
decline Mr Ms request for more time to repay the charges referenced in the June 2021 final 
response. It would have created the very situation the policy was designed to avoid; the 
snowballing effect of successive tranches of charges being added at intervals that were 
shorter than the time given to repay them.
I can appreciate Mr M finding NatWests decision not to grant him a further concession 
unwelcome. But in the wider context, I dont consider it was unfair, which is the test I have to 
apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman