DRN-3976683
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
Insurance (NIG) have voided its Business Package insurance policy, retained its premium 
and declined a claim for damaged contents.  
Mr C, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on S behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all actions and comments of Mr C as being those of S.   
What happened
S occupies a premises under a lease agreement. It took out a Business Package insurance 
policy with NIG in July 2021. A week after taking out the policy, S premises suffered a 
severe roof leak following adverse weather conditions, so S made a claim for the damage to 
its contents  stock and equipment. A separate claim was made by S landlord for damage to 
the building under their own insurance policy. 
NIG appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. During the investigation, S told the 
loss adjuster that it had suffered roof leaks since 2019 and it has been in a dispute with its 
landlord since then about repairing the roof. S provided the loss adjuster with a timeline of 
events, outlining the problems with the roof and its landlord. 
NIG said S misrepresented when taking the policy out in July 2021. They said this was 
because the problems with the roof had been ongoing since 2019 which was before the 
policy was incepted in 2021. NIG said that, although the maintenance of the roof had been 
an issue and as a result S had suffered a number of leaks, it didnt disclose to them at 
inception that the premises wasnt watertight. NIG said that the statement of fact at inception 
included an assumption statement which said that the premises didnt require repair or 
refurbishment to make it watertight. Based on the information NIG now have they feel this 
was incorrect. NIG concluded this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying breach, which 
entitled them to avoid the policy from inception, retain all the premium paid and decline the 
claim. 
S didnt agree there was any breach of fair presentation of risk. In summary, it said: 
NIGs decision to terminate its policy was unfair. 
The broker was aware of the leaks as they had visited the property and witnessed 
some buckets catching water from the roof. 
Premises is defined in the policy as Premises at the address(es) stated in the 
Schedule occupied by You for the purpose of the Business.  The premises occupied 
by S for the purposes of its business is as per the lease it entered into. The lease 
states that S occupies the internal part of the property and therefore this excludes the 
roof which is retained by the landlord. 
As such, the premises occupied by S for the purpose of its business, doesnt require 
any repair or refurbishment to make it secure or watertight and therefore theres no 
misrepresentation on S part. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think NIG had acted unfairly. She said, 
in summary: 
It was clear from the statement of fact that the statement contained within it, about 
the property being watertight, was a material fact which S should have disclosed. 
She was satisfied that, had the relevant information been provided, NIG wouldnt 
have provided cover. 
She concluded that NIG acted fairly by avoiding the policy and declining S claim. 
S dont agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it asked whether NIG can demonstrate that they have refused cover on this basis 
and also that they wouldnt have offered the policy on different terms. S said that it didnt set 
out to deliberately deceive NIG and would therefore like a refund of the premiums. It also 
believes that the floods would have happened irrespective of the leaks as confirmed in its 
roof report. S also provided a copy of an email dated December 2020 to demonstrate that 
the landlord had carried out repairs to the roof. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive read and carefully considered everything S and NIG has said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by S, and NIG, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on NIGs decision to avoid the policy and reject S claim. 
When considering whether NIG acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015. 
Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to the insurer when taking out and renewing a policy.
The insurance Act says disclosure needs to be made as follows:
 disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to 
know, or
 failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing 
those material circumstances.
For NIG to take any action at all they need to show is S didnt do this and that it made whats 
known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the 
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so 
on different terms.
The statement of fact that was completed by S included the following under the heading  
Important statements:
Your Premises:does not require any repair or refurbishment to make them secure or water tight and 
will be so maintained;
The same document also contained the following warning on the front page: 
WARNING  YOU MUST CHECK ALL THE INFORMATION IN THE NEW 
BUSINESS SCHEDULE AND THIS STATEMENT OF FACT AND TELL YOUR 
BROKER, INTERMEDIARY OR AGENT ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF 
IMMEDIATELY IF ANY DETAILS ARE INCORRECT, INCOMPLETE OR HAVE 
BEEN OMITTED. FAILURE TO DO SO MAY MEAN THAT YOUR INSURANCE 
POLICY IS NOT VALID OR THAT WE MAY NOT PAY ALL OR PART OF YOUR 
CLAIM(S).
S didnt inform NIG of the problems with the roof which had been causing leaks since 2019. 
S pointed out that the policy terms define premises as the premises at the address stated in 
the schedule occupied by S for the purpose of its business. S said that premises which are 
occupied by it for the purpose of its business as those that are stated in its lease agreement. 
S said that under its lease agreement, it occupied the internal property which excludes the 
roof as this is retained by its landlord. It has no legal right to occupy the exterior of the 
building as it doesnt form part of its demise. It therefore believed that the premises occupied 
by it didnt require repair or refurbishment to make them secure or watertight. 
The ordinary meaning of the word premises refers to the building occupied by the business 
and this would include the roof. If I were to accept what S has said above, even by its own 
account, Im not persuaded that the internal property was secure or watertight as a result of 
the issues with the roof. But in any event, Im satisfied that the statement of fact is referring 
to S building being secure or watertight which includes the roof. 
S has provided an email to demonstrate the damage to the roof was repaired by the landlord 
in December 2020. However, from the timeline of events that it sent to the loss adjuster in 
September 2021, its clear that the repairs carried out didnt address the leaks and the 
problem continued thereafter. The loss adjuster found that S had been having ongoing 
problems with its landlord to resolve the issue. 
Taking S circumstances into consideration  ongoing leaks and maintenance issues since 
2019, I believe S was aware that the property wasnt secure or watertight and therefore it 
should have disclosed this information to NIG at inception. 
The information wasnt declared by S or its insurance broker. However, I think it is clear from 
the wording in the statement of fact that this information was material to NIGs decision in 
accepting the risk. 
S said it didnt think it needed to disclose the information about the leaks because it wasnt a 
material disclosure. Its also said that its broker was aware of the leaks when arranging the 
policy. Im satisfied that it was S responsibility (either directly or through its broker) to ensure 
that it provided a fair presentation of the risk to NIG. I havent seen any evidence that either 
S or its broker contacted NIG to inform it of the issues with the roof. As it didnt do that in this 
instance, Im satisfied that it didnt make a fair presentation of the risk.  
NIG have provided confirmation from its underwriter that if they had been told about the 
problems with the roof, they wouldnt have offered terms. Based on this evidence, Im 
satisfied that, had the appropriate disclosures been made, NIG wouldnt have offered terms 
to S. Therefore, I think S made a qualifying breach when buying its policy. S asked NIG to demonstrate that they wouldnt have provided cover on different terms and 
to demonstrate a precedent that they have refused policies on this basis. Im satisfied that 
NIG has demonstrated that it wouldnt have provided cover to S and that is sufficient. I dont 
require NIG to demonstrate anything further. 
The remedies available to NIG depend on whether a qualifying breach is either deliberate or 
reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. NIG has treated S breach as deliberate or 
reckless. They said that S ought to have disclosed information about the roof leaks to NIG.
The Insurance Act says:
An insured will have acted deliberately if it knew that it did not make a fair 
presentation. An insured will have acted recklessly if it did not care whether or not it 
was in breach of the duty, but this is intended to indicate a greater degree of 
culpability than acting carelessly.
The most relevant part of S policy terms and conditions here stated; 
1 Fair Presentation of the Risk
a You have a duty to make to Us a fair presentation of the risk before:
i the inception of this Policy;
b In the event of a breach of such duty, if the breach is:
i deliberate or reckless, We may:
b in relation to inception or renewal of this Policy, avoid this Policy and refuse all 
claims and retain any premiums paid;
Based on all the circumstances, I think NIG acted fairly in deciding that S breach was 
deliberate or reckless. I say this because S was aware that the roof had maintenance issues 
and had been leaking since 2019. The leaks which had previously occurred were described 
by S as having been so severe that it had to arrange buckets to catch the water. It also 
couldnt use its showrooms during periods of bad weather. Its contents were also becoming 
damaged and it suspected that the ceiling tiles were at risk of collapsing. The manner is 
which these leaks have been described, Im satisfied that they were serious enough to 
impact S use of the building. Ive also considered the fact that this problem had been 
happening over a long period of time  since 2019. I therefore agree with NIG that S ought to 
have disclosed this information which it failed to do. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think NIG acted unfairly in avoiding S policy from 
inception, retaining the premium paid and declining the claim in question for not making a 
fair presentation of the risk.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman