DRN-3619702
The complaint
Mr S complained that the price he paid for his home insurance policy with Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) was unfair.
What happened
Mr S was unhappy with the price he was offered for his home insurance when it was due for 
renewal. After trying to ascertain whether this was the best value on offer, Mr S rang RSA 
to get a new quote from scratch as a new customer. When he compared the prices, he 
realised the renewal price was around £70 higher and he thought this was unfair. He thought 
RSA shouldve offered him best value at renewal. He also thought that he may have paid 
extra for his premiums in previous years as he thought one of his items didnt need to be 
specified on the policy as it had. Mr S was unhappy with the general customer service 
provided.
RSA responded to the queries Mr S had raised and referred the specifics of his complaint to 
its pricing department to ensure it had acted reasonably. RSA said with your existing policy, 
your premium is calculated in advance of providing your renewal and this is reflective of the 
risk assessment and pricing strategy at that time. Our new quotation is reflective of our most 
up to date risk assessment at the date of the quotation and, as such our quotations are 
subject to change. Alongside this, the new quotation takes into account other factors, such 
as our current marketing strategy for new business, where we may provide a reduced 
premium as a way of attracting new members to take insurance, this is standard market 
practice and is not just used by RSA. We offer the best price that we can at renewal and if a 
customer wishes to obtain a new quote, the onus would be on them to do this. 
RSA also compensated Mr S £80 for failing to provide a call back, misinformation given 
about being offered a quotation on the phone and for incorrectly specifying items on the 
policy. It refunded Mr S £10.88 for the financial impact of the incorrect specification in earlier 
years.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He checked the premiums that were 
offered to Mr S and he thought these were fair as they reflected the prices any other 
customer wouldve received had they been in the same position. He did note the new rules 
implemented by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect to policy pricing didnt 
impact Mr S complaint as they werent introduced until a later date. Mr S disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that the renewal price offered was higher than the price he 
was quoted when he applied to RSA for an insurance policy as a new customer. I completely 
understand and have sympathy for Mr S complaint. This is because the FCA has recently 
introduced new rules mandating insurers to offer the same premium (or price) to new and 
existing customers alike for the same policy. Mr S complaint circumstances are exactly why 
the FCA introduced these new rules, to prevent existing customers paying more than new 
customers.
However, I am unable to uphold Mr S complaint as the new rules introduced by the FCA 
didnt take effect until 1 January 2022. Mr S renewal occurred before this date (in August 
2021). Therefore, the new rules dont apply for Mr S renewal as it took place earlier. Mr S 
chose to cancel his old policy and took out the new policy benefitting from a discounted 
price. Therefore, as Mr S took out a new policy at a lower price, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask RSA to provide a continuous policy as Mr S has requested.
RSA explained that the difference in prices was primarily driven by discounted rates offered 
to new customers as a marketing strategy to attract them, along with a few other factors. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. RSA has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr S price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this, but rest assured Ive checked it 
carefully. Im satisfied the price quoted at renewal has been calculated correctly and all of 
RSAs customers in Mr S position will have been offered a similar premium. Therefore, as 
RSA havent treated Mr S differently, I dont think RSA have priced his policy unfairly. RSA 
has acted in line with the rules that were in place at the time the renewal was offered.
Ive reviewed the other aspects of Mr S complaint. Ive looked at whether RSA acted unfairly 
by overcharging Mr S for incorrectly specifying items on his policy. I can see RSA couldnt 
access information Mr S provided in earlier years to support his declaration of specified 
items on the policy. Although there was no evidence to demonstrate RSA had made an error 
that caused a higher price to Mr S, RSA did investigate this. It decided to refund Mr S the 
additional premium he paid in case there had been an error. I think this is a reasonable thing 
to do in the circumstances. As Mr S hasnt been financially disadvantaged, I dont think its 
fair to ask RSA to do anymore.
Ive considered the compensation RSA has paid for the below standard customer service 
provided. I think it wouldve been frustrating for the delay in Mr S getting through to a 
competent sales agent to get the quote he wanted, and he wouldve been inconvenienced in 
the time he spent doing this. However, I think the overall £80 paid by RSA is fair for the 
issues it caused. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman