DRN-3365399
The complaint
Mr H complains that Oplo PL Ltd (when it was trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.(To keep things 
simpler, Ill refer to the lender as 1st Stop).
What happened
1st Stop provided Mr H with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm in 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableDate 
repaid
7/8/2017 £8,000 60 £232.54 £13,952.40 17/9/2019
When Mr H complained to 1st Stop it said it had gone through Mr Hs income and 
expenditure and reviewed his credit file before lending to him. 
It was satisfied that there were no signs of financial difficulty and the loan was affordable 
and sustainable for Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt think that 1st Stop shouldve provided the loan and upheld Mr Hs 
complaint. He set out the steps 1st Stop needed to take to put things right.
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
1st Stop mainly said that it had carried out a proportionate check before lending, it had seen 
nothing to make it think that further checks were needed before approving the loan and he 
had ample disposable income. Mr H was using its loan partly for debt consolidation - in 
other words, to repay other debt - which saved him money each month and it was 
reasonable for 1st Stop to conclude that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
1st Stop asked for an ombudsman review so the complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. And having looked at 
the complaint afresh, I've come to the same overall outcome as our adjudicator. Ill 
explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think 
about when deciding whether to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This 
should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend.
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more 
money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in 
a sustainable way.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Hs complaint.
1st Stop asked Mr H about his income and expenditure and took steps to verify his 
employment and the amount of his regular take home pay. 1st Stop also did its own 
credit checks to see how much Mr H was already paying towards servicing his existing 
debt and gain an understanding of his credit history.
Our adjudicator didnt think that 1st Stops checks were reasonable and proportionate in the 
particular circumstances of this loan application  1st Stop disagreed. I dont need to make 
any findings on this point as it doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. And like the 
adjudicator, I dont think 1st Stop made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr H based on 
the information it had gathered.
I say this because I dont think 1st Stop thought carefully enough about what all 
the information it had gathered showed about Mr Hs overall financial situation. 1st 
Stop recorded a figure of around £2,817 for Mr Hs monthly earnings. After 
making allowance for his likely general living costs, plus his credit costs, and 
keeping in mind that he was using this loan to consolidate a loan that had been 
costing him £377 per month, 1st Stop said this meant Mr H should still have ample 
disposable income to pay its loan  and hed be £100 per month better off.
I've taken into account that 1st Stop says its credit checks didnt show any particularly 
concerning information. But 1st Stop was aware that as well as having to make at least the minimum monthly repayments towards his two credit cards, Mr H would still 
be paying at least £900 per month towards his other outstanding credit commitments.
This would mean he would need to spend around a third of his disposable income 
just on servicing debt  and hed need to spend more than this in order to make any 
meaningful inroads into his credit card debt within a reasonable period of time.
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this would be such a significant 
proportion of Mr Hs monthly income that 1st Stop ought to have realised it was 
unlikely that Mr H would be able to sustainably repay his loan over the five year 
term. And, in these circumstances, 1st Stop should reasonably have concluded that 
it was not fair to lend to Mr H.
Ive thought carefully about everything 1st Stop has said in response to our adjudicators 
view. But bearing in mind also that the loan was partly intended to finance some other 
spending I dont think 1st Stop could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Mr H wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts.
And 1st Stop saw from its credit checks that Mr Hs total outstanding unsecured credit 
balance was already well over £30,000  and this figure would be more with its new loan. 
So,  I dont think 1st Stop was able to safely say its loan would improve Mr Hs overall 
position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial 
situation. I think the scale of Mr Hs debts, compared to the much smaller value of the loan, 
would suggest that he would inevitably remain extensively indebted. And if the total costs of 
servicing all his debt were properly taken into account I think 1st Stop should have realised 
that, in reality, making the monthly repayments for this loan would be beyond Mr Hs 
means.
I dont agree with 1st Stops conclusion that the fact Mr H made repayments on time and 
repaid the loan early means that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainably 
affordable - or that the absence of any indicators of serious financial difficulty in its credit 
checks means this loan was sustainably affordable for him. For all the reasons above, 
I think 1st Stop ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was 
unlikely to help Mr H and more likely to potentially increase his indebtedness over the 
longer term. 
So, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint that he should not have been given this loan.Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 1st Stop should pay any additional redress. Mr H has 
said he accepts our adjudicators recommendations and I havent seen anything which 
makes me think that 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other 
way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan 
that should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr H 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
As I understand the loan is now settled, 1st Stop should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
Whilst its fair that Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 1st Stop should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd (formerly trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman