DRN-1800433
 
The complaint
A named driver on Miss Hs car insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited was involved 
in a road traffic accident. Miss H is unhappy with the repairs carried out on her car following 
the accident. 
What happened
Miss Hs car was involved in a road traffic accident which happened when the named driver, 
Miss Hs partner, had reversed out of a car parking space and had collided with another car 
reversing out of a different car parking space. Miss H believes the other driver is fully liable 
for the accident as they were going against the flow of traffic in a one-way system.
Miss Hs insurer, esure, arranged for the repairs to her car. But her car suffered additional 
damage while being repaired. esure arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the 
car. They said the original repairs hadnt been completed to a satisfactory standard and 
additional damage had been done by the repairers. Because esure didnt have another local 
garage who would repair the car, they offered Miss H a cash-in-lieu payment for the repairs. 
They also offered her £150 for the inconvenience and delays shed suffered.
Miss H rejected this offer. Shes complained that her car wasnt repaired to an acceptable 
standard, including damage to the bumper/chassis, and she doesnt think she should now be 
liable for finding someone to repair this. 
Shes also unhappy that esure have accepted 50/50 liability for the accident; that there were 
delays and she wasnt kept updated; and that shes been mis-advised  she says she was 
told her car would be repaired at a Mercedes approved garage, and that any attempt to 
repair the bumper/chassis damage would mean her car would have to be written off.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that the repairers caused additional damage to Miss 
Hs car, and he thought esure should be responsible for repairing this damage. But, because 
esure dont have a locally approved garage who are prepared to repair this damage, he 
thought it was reasonable theyd offered Miss H a cash-in-lieu payment instead.
But the investigator didnt think esure had told Miss H theyd use a Mercedes approved 
repairer, because they dont have one local to her. And he didnt think they told Miss H that 
attempting to repair the bumper/chassis would result in her car being written off  hed seen 
nothing to show him that was the case. So he didnt think esure needed to do anything more 
about this.
So he recommended that esure should pay for all of the damage caused by the repairer, 
including the damage to the bumper/chassis. And that this should be based on a quote Miss 
H obtains from her own repairers, not the estimate provided by the independent engineer. 
He also recommended that esure paid Miss H an additional £150  taking the total to £300  
to compensate her for the unnecessary delay by not offering to repair the damage to the 
bumper/chassis.esure H didnt agree with the investigator. While they accept there was additional damage 
caused by the repairers, they say the repairs to Miss Hs car were carried out to an 
acceptable standard, and this was confirmed by the independent engineer. So they dont feel 
theyre liable for the repairs to the bumper/chassis and have asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Miss H is unhappy that esure have agreed a split liability for the accident. My role is to 
consider whether esure handled matters in a fair and reasonable way. The terms of Miss Hs 
insurance policy gave esure full discretion to agree a settlement, and they didnt need her 
approval for this. However, decisions on responsibility are best dealt with by the courts, so I 
wont comment on this specifically.
In respect of the damage to Miss Hs car, the report by the independent engineer was based 
on a physical inspection of the car. It says the car was in above average condition and that 
supplementary damage was done by the repairer. And, while it says Miss Hs partner had 
been pushing and pulling the repair area to the left side of the rear bumper after repairs 
were complete it also says we are therefore of the opinion that the incorrect method of 
repair has been instructed and the rear bumper cover shouldve been replaced. 
The engineer estimated that it would cost £1,175.58 to repair Miss Hs car, subject to 
undisclosed damage. This didnt include the repairs to the bumper/chassis.
Based on this report, Im satisfied that the repairs werent completed to a satisfactory 
standard. While Miss Hs partner caused some additional damage to the rear bumper during 
their inspection of the repairs, had the bumper been repair correctly then such a robust 
inspection may not have been necessary. 
Miss H has also sent in photographs of a slight mis-shaping of part of the rear chassis, 
underneath the damaged bumper, where a vent should clip in. She says this was part of the 
unrepaired accident damage. As her car was in above average condition before the 
accident, and as damage to the chassis wouldnt have been caused by Miss Hs partner 
pushing and pulling the bumper; its highly likely this was accident related damage that 
wasnt repaired.
So I agree that esure are responsible for the original repairs not being completed to a 
satisfactory standard, which includes the damage to the rear bumper/chassis; as well as for 
the rectification work for the additional damage done by the repairers.
Because esure arent able to get a locally approved repairer to complete this work, its 
reasonable that Miss H instructs her own repairer to do this. And, because the independent 
engineer only gave a subjective estimate which didnt include the bumper/chassis, esure 
should cover the cost of Miss Hs repairer, and not just pay cash-in-lieu based on the 
subjective estimate.
Putting things right
esure should pay for the repairs to Miss Hs car, as detailed in the independent engineers 
report dated 30 July 2019. This is to include the repairs to the rear bumper/chassis.  Miss H should obtain a quotation for these repairs and send them to esure, who can then 
arrange payment. But esure will not be responsible for any costs related to repairs that are 
not covered by the damage detailed on the engineers report, with the exception of the 
repairs to the rear bumper/chassis.
esure should also pay Miss H an additional £150  taking the total compensation to £300  
to compensate her for the additional stress and inconvenience shes been caused by the 
delays to her car being repaired because of the bumper/chassis issue.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Hs complaint. esure Insurance Limited must 
follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman