The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked online access to his account when 
he tried to make a transfer of £8,000 to buy a property in Turkey. He was unable to access 
funds by other means and consequently lost £1,800 which he'd already spent.
What happened
Mr M and his partner wanted to buy a property in Turkey, for which they would need to make 
a transfer of £8,000. They say that, before they flew out to Turkey, Nationwide assured them 
that this would be straightforward and that it could be done through the society's online 
phone app. However, when Mr M tried to make the transfer, he was unsuccessful and his 
online banking was blocked. He tried to make a series of cash machine withdrawals to cover 
the money he needed, but some withdrawals were declined, and he incurred charges in 
doing so.
Mr M complained to Nationwide about what had happened and made a subject access 
request, seeking details of the information Nationwide held about him. That was processed 
outside of the relevant time limits for doing so and, when the documents arrived, the 
package was damaged and left in a neighbour's garden.
Mr M complained to Nationwide about what had happened. It looked into Mr M's attempts to 
transfer funds. It said that it had blocked online access to his account because his password 
had been entered incorrectly. Mr M disputes this - he says he used the same password he 
used on his return to the UK and that he must have used the correct password because he 
received the one-time passcode that Nationwide uses as a further level of security.
Once Mr M's online access had been blocked, Nationwide's systems would allow him to 
unblock it by attending a branch. And he could only get a new password through the post. 
Neither of those was practical while he was out of the country.
Nationwide said the other possibility was to use a card reader. Although he didn't have his 
own reader with him, Mr M was able to use a different one, but that wasn't successful either - 
although he says that reader was working. 
Mr M and his partner have explained in some detail the steps they took when in Turkey and 
the efforts the building society made to assist. I don't need to set them out in detail here, but 
it's clear that it was a very stressful time for them. 
As far as the subject access request is concerned, Nationwide apologised that it was 
processed late and paid Mr M £75 by way of apology. It said it wasn't however responsible 
for the way in which the documents were delivered.
DRN-1930297Mr M referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He was persuaded however that Mr M had, as Nationwide said, used an incorrect 
password and that this led to the blocking of his online access and the problems that flowed 
from that. Mr M didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the main points I believe I need to address here is the reason why the transfer of 
funds was unsuccessful. Mr M says that Nationwide assured him it would be straightforward, 
but of course it wasn't. I'm satisfied however that Nationwide's records show that Mr M 
entered his password incorrectly on more than one occasion, and on balance, therefore, I 
think this is the most likely reason for the payment failing and online access being blocked. 
I appreciate that Mr M is adamant that he used the right password, and I've no doubt he 
genuinely believes that he did. However, I think Nationwide's electronic records are more 
likely to be accurate reflection of what happened here. 
It wasn't unreasonable therefore for Nationwide to block online access, and the limitations on 
how that could be restored were a reasonable security measure - although I accept they 
made things difficult for Mr M.
I accept too that it wasn't easy for Mr M to contact Nationwide to try to resolve the problem. 
And, because he was abroad, telephone calls were expensive. Whilst Nationwide suggested 
a number of possible solutions, none was successful. That was unfortunate, but I don't think 
it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for that.
Overall, I accept that the root cause of the problem here was that Mr M used an incorrect 
password. Everything else flows from that. Because of that, it wouldn't be fair to 
require Nationwide to meet Mr M's losses here. I would however comment that, if I made a 
different finding about Mr M's password, I would still need to consider whether the losses Mr 
M has suffered are a foreseeable consequence of the failed transfer and whether it would in 
any event be fair to make Nationwide cover them.  
I note that Nationwide has compensated Mr M for dealing with his subject access request 
late. In my view, that's fair, and I can't properly make Nationwide responsible for any issues 
with the delivery.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
8 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman