DRN-4378996
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt refund money she lost in a 
romance scam.
What happened
What Miss D says:
Miss D lived with her mother, who was involved in a romance scam with a man (who I will 
call A). A lived in South Africa. Miss Ds mother was completely taken in by A and sent him 
large sums of money over a period - Miss A says her mother sent £39,000 to him. A 
continued to ask Miss Ds mother for money for various purposes, but she ran out of funds. 
A then asked for more and said he would return the money to Miss Ds mother if it was 
received.
Miss D wanted to help her mother out and made three payments to an account in the name 
of another person (B) as follows:
Date Transaction Amount 
9 March 2020 International payment to B £4,600
23 March 2020 International payment to B £500
27 April 2020 International payment to B £800
Total £5,900
This complaint deals only with the payments made by Miss D, and so goes no further into 
the circumstances of the scam as regards Miss Ds mother.
Miss Ds mother continued to send money to A after Miss Ds payments. It was realised that 
A was a scammer when he said he was due to travel to the UK in June 2020 but was 
apparently arrested at the airport in South Africa, allegedly for travelling with diamonds  he 
asked Miss Ds mother for more money to help him get released, and at that stage Miss Ds 
mother realised this was a scam.
Miss D said Lloyds shouldve done more to protect her and said they should refund the 
money.
What Lloyds said:
Lloyds said the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) didnt apply as the 
payments were international ones and these were excluded from the Code. Lloyds said Miss 
D shouldve done more to protect herself. Lloyds said:
- The payments were made to a third person (B) and not to A. This shouldve been a 
red flag to Miss D.
- Lloyds made the payments in accordance with Miss Ds instructions.
- The first payment of £4,600 was unusual when compared to Miss Ds normal 
spending pattern, but that didnt mean Lloyds shouldve intervened. The other two 
payments were of low value and there was no reason to stop them.
- Lloyds tried to get the money back from the recipient bank, but no funds remained.
Lloyds didnt refund any money to Miss D.
Our investigation so far:
Miss D brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He considered Miss Ds 
account activity and said that while the first payment of £4,600 was higher than normal, there 
were times when one off higher value payments take place. And the other two payments 
were of a lower value and didnt warrant Lloyds questioning them  they were similar to 
everyday spending.
Also, the payments werent made in rapid succession  which wouldve suggested a scam -
but were spread out over time. So, there wasnt a sequence of payments. 
So, Lloyds didnt need to intervene and contact Mis D about the payments. Lloyds had tried 
to get the funds back, but none remained.
Miss D asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss D has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Miss D didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss D when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The important matter here is whether these were payments that Lloyds might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payments and contacted Miss D about them. 
I looked at Miss Ds account history with Lloyds. It is fair to say that the first payment for 
£4,600 was a little unusual  compared to her normal account activity. Up until then, her 
account was used for everyday, low value spending.
So here, I need to decide whether Lloyds shouldve intervened, or not.
But - theres a balance to be struck: Lloyds has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, on balance, 
I think Lloyds acted reasonably in processing the first payment.
It follows that as the second and third payments were of low value  I cant say that Lloyds 
should reasonably have been expected to stop them. And as our investigator said, a typical 
pattern of a scam is that payments are made in rapid succession, normally on the same day 
or over several consecutive days  and that wasnt the case here.
So  in the circumstances of this case, I dont hold Lloyds liable for Miss Ds losses. 
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Lloyds took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the money. Lloyds told us they contacted the 
recipient bank, and no funds remained to be repaid. Given that the scam took place in 2020, 
and Miss D complained to Lloyds in March 2023  this wasnt a surprise  as normally in 
such scams, funds are removed from the recipient bank immediately.
Miss D has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and 
the impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore 
be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman