DRN-2944592
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain that Santander UK Plc discriminated against them due to their race 
and nationality. They say it deliberately misled them about its lending criteria to ensure their 
buy to let mortgage application would be declined. They say this affected their health and 
caused financial loss, for which theyd like compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Ms P applied to Santander for a buy to let mortgage in late 2019. A broker applied on 
their behalf. Santander didnt offer to lend the amount they applied for. Santander said this 
was because the surveyor it appointed reported a property valuation and projected rental 
income lower than stated on the application.
During the application process, Santander asked Mr and Ms P to provide additional 
documentation, which wasnt necessary or required by its own processes. Santander said 
this was an error and offered £250 compensation (£100 of which has already been paid).
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. I 
said Santander had declined to lend the amount Mr and Ms P wanted due to the valuation. 
But it had delayed matters by asking Mr and Ms P for documents it didnt need. I said 
Santander should pay compensation of £500 (in total) for the upset and inconvenience this 
caused.
Mr and Ms P said the delays caused financial loss as well as inconvenience. They said if 
theyd known sooner that Santander would decline their application, theyd have taken out a 
new interest rate product with their lender. They provided evidence to support this. 
Santander agreed to pay compensation for Mr and Ms Ps additional interest costs. Based 
on the information provided by Mr and Ms P it offered to pay compensation for additional 
interest of £1,035.84, plus interest at 8% simple. It also agreed to pay £400 for their upset 
and inconvenience (in addition to the £100 it had already paid).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander asked for a valuation of the security property. This was to help it decide whether 
the property was suitable security and how much to lend. The surveyor appointed by 
Santander was a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors. I think the surveyor 
was appropriately qualified and Santander was entitled to rely on the valuation. While Mr P 
says the valuation was later manipulated by Santander the available evidence doesnt 
support this.
The valuation was carried out in early December 2019. The surveyor said the estimated 
value of the property wasnt supported by evidence of sales of comparable properties. He 
gave a lower valuation. The valuers opinion was that the rental value of the property was 
also lower than stated in the application.
Santanders lending criteria for buy to let mortgages includes rental cover. Based on the 
surveyors opinion of the rental value, its criteria werent met for the amount Mr and Ms P 
wanted to borrow. Mr and Ms P had applied for £280,000 and Santander said the most it 
would lend was £160,000.
Santander says it made an error when it asked Mr and Ms P for additional documentation 
between late November 2019 to early January 2020. Santander says this was an error by a 
member of staff.
I know Mr and Ms P feel strongly about this. Mr P says someone born in the UK wouldnt 
have been asked for this additional documentation. I understand the point he makes. I do 
think that, as UK nationals, he and Ms P should not have been asked for the additional 
information Santander asked for. And Santander now accepts that. It says the underwriter 
made an error and has been given feedback. Mr and Ms P say this amounted to 
discrimination on Santanders part, and I can understand why they feel this way, since in law 
direct discrimination is different treatment based on  among other things  race and 
nationality. Mr and Ms P were asked, as dual nationals, for information other British citizens 
would not have been asked for.
However, as I say, discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. Its for the 
courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a 
finding that Santander acted in breach of the Act. It is though a matter for me to decide 
whether Mr and Ms P were treated fairly in all the circumstances  and, as Santander now 
agrees, Im satisfied they werent treated fairly.
Mr and Ms P question why Santander reduced its offer in January 2020 when it received the 
valuation report in December 2019. Santander says while it had the valuation report it didnt 
progress the application because it was waiting for other supporting documents and 
information.
Mr and Ms P were told in December that the property valuation was lower than theyd 
expected. No doubt it would have been helpful if theyd also known the projected rental 
income in the valuation report meant Santander wouldnt offer the amount they wanted to 
borrow. However, Santander followed its usual process and the application wasnt passed to 
the underwriters until it had all supporting documents. The underwriters said due to the 
rental value Santander would lend up to £160,000.
It does seem likely there was a delay in the application process due to Santander asking for 
documentation it didnt need. I dont think this affected Santanders lending decision  I think 
the reason it offered to lend a lower amount than Mr and Ms P wanted was due to the 
valuation report. But this did delay Mr and Ms P knowing how much Santander would offer. 
And it must have been inconvenient and upsetting for Mr and Ms P to be asked to provide 
documents that were not needed. I think its right that Santander pays compensation for this.
Mr and Ms P had asked for compensation of £5,000 each for distress due to discrimination 
(as provided in law) and about £1,300 for financial loss and £150 for distress due to the 
manipulated valuation. I dont think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. I appreciate Mr P is disappointed about this, 
but only a court can decide whether a law has been broken. I dont think Mr and Ms P were 
treated fairly when they were asked for additional identification documents. This continued 
for over a month, and likely delayed their mortgage application. This will have caused them inconvenience. And Mr P has said they found the experience upsetting. I think, in the 
circumstances, Santander should pay compensation of £500, as its agreed to do. I think this 
fairly reflects the effect its error had on Mr and Ms P. 
Mr P says their lender applied its standard variable rate (SVR) from December 2019, until 
they took out a new product in February 2020. He says if theyd known sooner that 
Santander would decline to lend theyd have been able to take out a new product sooner. 
Mr P provided evidence of the additional interest incurred due to the delay. Santander 
calculated the additional interest to be £1,035.84 and agreed to pay compensation for this 
with 8% simple interest. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay:
£1,035.84, plus interest at 8% simple from the date of payment of the additional interest 
to the date of settlement*, and
£400 to Mr and Ms P.
*If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Ms P how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman