DRN-1696365
The complaint
Mr B complains that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) is chasing him for a fee a year 
after he was paid compensation.
What happened
Mr B instructed WFAC in 2017 and 2018, both jointly with his ex-wife and individually, to 
make a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr B signed a number of 
Letters of Authority (LOA) which gave WFAC permission to approach his lenders.
The agreement that Mr B signed gave WFAC the authority to make claims on his behalf, and 
if those claims were successful, the agreement explained that Mr B would pay WFAC 33% of 
the compensation as a fee.
Mr Bs claims were successful, and he was paid compensation from his lender in April 2018. 
At this point, he didnt receive an invoice and didnt pay a fee. In 2019 he received an invoice 
from WFAC. Mr B complained as he said hed cancelled the agreement before he received 
the invoice. He also complained that the service from WFAC wasnt good. He didnt feel he 
should pay the fee when it had invoiced him after the agreement had been cancelled.
Our investigator explained that WFAC didnt receive a copy of the offer letter from Mr Bs 
lender at the time. So, it didnt know that Mr B had received compensation until it chased the 
lender in 2019. Once it was told that compensation had been paid, it contacted Mr B for its 
fee. Our investigator said WFAC was entitled to its fee under the agreement, and he felt 
Mr B wouldve been aware of this from all the previous contact hed had with WFAC. The 
investigator also said that any cancellation happened after the successful claim had been 
made, so WFAC was still entitled to claim its fee.
Mr B disagreed. He felt that his ex-wife has called to cancel before the successful claim and 
didnt feel WFAC should be able to charge a fee. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Mr Bs claims only, so I wont be looking at anything relating to his 
ex-wifes claims.
I can see that Mr B instructed WFAC to make claims on his behalf to his lender for mis-sold 
PPI. Mr B signed a number of LOAs and an engagement letter which set out the fees that 
WFAC would charge in the event of a successful claim. And if the claims werent successful, 
no fee would be due. So WFAC would have done the work for free. I think Mr B knew, when 
he instructed WFAC, that he would have to pay a fee if he received compensation.Mr B says that his ex-wife called to cancel the claims in February 2018, before he received 
his offer from his lender. Ive looked at the notes from WFAC and I cant see that any 
cancellation attempt was made for these claims. And specifically, I didnt see any contact 
from Mr B to cancel the claims that he had individually. So, I dont think the agreement was 
cancelled before he received his compensation.
In April 2018 Mr B received a letter from his lender offering compensation for the mis-sale of 
PPI. The letter, addressed to Mr B, says that it was WFAC that made the claim on his behalf. 
Unfortunately, WFAC didnt receive a copy of this letter. So, it wasnt aware that Mr B 
received compensation. Mr B therefore wasnt invoiced and didnt pay a fee. Whilst this isnt 
ideal, I think its likely Mr B was aware he owed a fee to WFAC.
It wasnt until 2019 when WFAC chased Mr Bs lender that it was told the claim had been 
successful and compensation was paid. It then issued an invoice. I can see that there was a 
cancellation call prior to the invoice being sent, however this was some time after the claim 
had been successful, so WFAC is still entitled to charge the fee as Mr B received 
compensation as a result of the work that it had carried out.
So, whilst it is unfortunate that it has taken so long for WFAC to be aware of the successful 
claim, it is entitled to charge Mr B for its fee in line with the terms Mr B agreed to. 
Mr B has said that he hasnt received a good service from WFAC. Ive looked at all the 
contact notes and I cant see that it has given a poor service. It updated Mr B when it had 
updates, and it chased his lender when it hadnt received any result. PPI claims do normally 
take some time, so I dont think it was unreasonable for WFAC to have waited to chase the 
lender for an answer. And I dont think any of the contact after it became aware it was owed 
a fee was excessive either. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman