DRN-4050619
The complaint
F, a limited company, is unhappy The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd 
(SAGIC) voided its commercial combined policy meaning a claim made relating to a fire 
wasnt paid. 
What happened
F has a commercial combined policy with SAGIC with a commencement date of 25 
November 2019. A Statement of Fact contained within the quote provided by its broker 
included the wording you comply with all statutory requirements in respect of your 
business. 
In August 2020 there was a fire at Fs business premises. It made a claim on its policy for 
damage to equipment, stock, premises and business interruption. An investigation report 
looked at CCTV on the day of the fire and found evidence of operatives smoking. It 
concluded there was little doubt the fire had started in the area around a hopper and this 
was either as a result of the ignition of lint due to frictional heating in the hopper's 
mechanism or as a result of carelessly discarded smoker's materials.
SAGIC declined the claim. It thought F was in breach of the provisions of the Health Act 
2006 in relation to smoking at work. So it hadnt complied with all statutory requirements in 
respect of your business. And if it had been aware of this it wouldnt have agreed to provide 
cover. It said it would be voiding the policy from the outset. It also said the policy contained a 
term requiring F to take all reasonable precautions to prevent damage to the insured 
property. It didnt think F had taken reasonable steps to prevent smoking on the premises 
which had increased the risk of a fire and related loss occurring. So even if the policy hadnt 
been voided it would have relied on this to turn down the claim. 
Our investigator accepted the CCTV footage showed operatives smoking on the day of the 
fire. But she didnt think that meant F was aware this was happening or that it knew about 
this when it took out the policy. Fs directors said they hadnt seen evidence of smoking and 
had provided evidence of steps theyd taken to prevent this. She didnt think SAGIC acted 
fairly in saying F hadnt complied with statutory requirements. And she didnt think any other 
non-compliance with the policy condition had increased the risk of the loss that actually 
occurred. She said SAGIC should reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms. 
F agreed with her outcome. SAGIC didnt agree. In summary it said:
It didnt agree F had complied with the Health and Safety Act and the Statement of Fact. 
and said the evidence it had provided predated both the loss and the period of cover. 
It drew attention to evidence which it believed showed there was a blatant disregard for 
health and safety culture at Fs premises which supported its view that the smoking 
observed on CCTV wasnt a one off event. 
It reiterated that F was in breach of the policy terms in relation to taking reasonable 
precautions to prevent damage to the insured property. It thought its behaviour and 
culture on the day of the incident increased the risk of the loss occurring.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say SAGIC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In this case SAGICs position is that no cover is available under the policy for the claim F 
made because it didnt make a fair presentation of risk at the outset. And if it had done then 
it wouldnt have provided cover. In relation to that its relied on the Statement of Fact and in 
particular the wording as it relates to compliance with all statutory requirements in respect of 
your business which it believes F was in breach of. 
F says it didnt see the Statement of Fact. I can see information about it was contained in a 
quote from its broker and the wording of that section says a copy of this Statement of Fact 
must be given to the Insured. If the broker was acting for F in arranging this policy and didnt 
pass that information on, that would be something it was responsible for. But I dont think 
thats material to the outcome of the complaint against SAGIC. Thats because regardless of 
whether the Statement of Fact was provided to F or not I dont think SAGIC are correct to 
say F didnt comply with it. 
The key issue here is whether, at the point it took the policy out, F was meeting the statutory 
requirements which applied to its business.  SAGIC has argued it didnt meet the 
requirements of the Health Act 2006. Ive reviewed the provisions of that Act. It requires a 
business to make sure no smoking signs are displayed in their premises and imposes a duty 
on any person who controls or is concerned in the management of smoke-free premises to 
cause a person smoking there to stop smoking. 
The Act says it is an offence not to comply with that duty but defences include that a person 
did not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to know, that the person in 
question was smoking. And where a defence is raised a court must assume the defence is 
satisfied unless the prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that it is not. 
In this case there was some initial dispute over whether a no smoking sign was displayed at 
Fs premises. But on further investigation SAGICs investigations established that was the 
case. So theres been no breach of that part of the Act. However, I think its accepted the 
CCTV from the date of the fire shows smoking was taking place on the premises on that day. 
And SAGIC has provided evidence which it believes shows there was a poor health and 
safety culture at Fs premises. 
But even if that is the case I dont see thats directly relevant to the issue here. The question 
is whether F committed the offence of failing to prevent smoking in a smoke free place (at 
the time the policy was taken out) meaning it was in breach of statutory requirements. 
The only evidence directly relevant to that is evidence showing smoking was taking place on 
the day of the fire. But that was over nine months after the insurance contract was entered 
into. 
And F has provided documentation from prior to that date which includes:A notice dated 1 March 2019 warning employees against smoking on the premises and 
confirming that doing so will result in instant dismissal.
A statement dated 31 May 2019 and signed by employees acknowledging that there is 
no smoking on the premises and that doing so will result in dismissal.
Signed statements from the directors of F saying they hadnt observed smoking inside 
the building and that they would have disciplined any member of staff who they found 
doing so.
It is a defence under the Act for a person to show they took reasonable steps to cause a 
person to stop smoking or that they didnt know or could not reasonably have known the 
person in question was smoking. And In order for an offence to be committed under the Act 
it needs to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Taking that, and the evidence F has 
provided of the actions it took into account, I dont think SAGIC has shown F didnt make a 
fair presentation of risk when the policy was taken out. So I dont agree it can void the policy. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether SAGIC can rely on the policy condition its quoted 
to turn down the claim F made. That says You shall take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent Damage to the Insured Property. In support of its argument SAGIC has cited 
various issues including the fact that smoking was shown on the CCTV coverage, fire safety 
risk assessments and drills hadnt been completed regularly and health and safety policies 
were out of date. 
I appreciate the CCTV footage does show employees smoking on the day in question. But 
that doesnt in itself meant that F is in breach of the term because that refers to taking all 
reasonable precautions to prevent damage. And Ive already identified a number of steps 
that F had put in place to prevent smoking including employees signing a notice 
acknowledging that doing so would result in instant dismissal. 
SAGIC has argued that other health and safety issues show F was in breach of this clause. 
But the Insurance Act 2015 says If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, 
the insurer may not rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability 
under the contract for the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3). Subsection 3 says The 
insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the term could not 
have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it 
occurred.
So any non-compliance with the reasonable precautions clause in the policy would need to 
have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred (the fire and resultant damage). 
SAGIC accepted in its response to us that not all of the comments it had made were relevant 
to the actual loss. And a report from the time from the fire service identified the main cause 
as fault in equipment or appliance. I recognise the forensic investigation report into the 
claim identified discarded smokers materials as a possible cause of the fire but it also said it 
could have been caused as a result of the ignition of lint due to frictional heating in the 
hopper's mechanism. The report didnt indicate which of those it thought was most likely to 
have been the cause. 
I appreciate the hopper itself had been removed when the visit took place but its clear the 
investigator was able to examines key components such as shafts, bearings and motors 
which had been retained. And while a further report did comment on health and safety 
breaches by F it didnt conclude any of these had contributed to the fire. So I dont think the evidence does show that any breach of the reasonable precautions 
clause of the policy has led to or increased the risk of the loss occurring in the circumstances 
in which it did  the cause of the fire is unclear and there isnt clear evidence to show a link 
between the possible causes and any non-compliance by F with the reasonable 
precautions clause in the policy. As a result I dont agree SAGIC can rely on this to turn 
down the claim F made.  
Putting things right
SAGIC will need to reverse the policy voidance and reinstate Fs policy (subject to F paying 
any relevant premiums). It will need to remove the records of the voidance from any internal 
and external databases on which it has been recorded. And it will then need to reconsider 
the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Our investigator also said it should pay interest at 8% simple on any amount that was then 
payable (from the date it should have been paid until the date it actually was). However, prior 
to reaching this decision our investigator explained I wouldnt be recommending that. 
Thats because under our rules interest is only payable on a money award (where we direct 
a business to pay a specific amount of money). And that isnt the direction Im making here. I 
understand why F continues to feel interest should be paid but that isnt something Im able 
to do given the direction Im making in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. SAGIC will need to put things right by doing what Ive 
said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman