DRN-2976270
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied to him through a hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd (LAL). 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In February 2017 Mr N hired a brand-new car through a hire agreement with LAL. Mr N 
agreed an annual maximum contracted mileage of 10,000 miles. Mr N put down an 
advanced payment of £3,026.34 which meant that the agreement was for £336.26 payable 
over 35 months.
In April 2018 Mr N says he noticed the engine management light (EML) was displayed on 
the cars dashboard. Mr N says he booked it into the dealership and was initially told the car 
would be repaired within a week, but says they kept it for much longer. Mr N was provided 
with a courtesy car for the duration.
The dealer replaced the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) cooler in July 2018. This appeared 
to have resolved the issue. However, in June and July 2019 the EML displayed again. The 
manufacturer attended on each occasion to clear the fault code, however on the second visit 
they repaired a lack of flow issue with the EGR.
Mr N says that in July 2019 after bringing his car in to be checked, he was told the car was 
okay to drive home, but that hed need to have it booked in as soon as possible. Mr N says 
he didnt drive the car for around two months while he waited for an appointment to have the 
problem with the EGR fixed. He says he wasnt provided with a courtesy car for this time.
In November 2019 Mr N raised a complaint to LAL. He explained that he was no longer 
enjoying the car, and that the low battery warning light was intermittently displaying on the 
dashboard.
LAL offered Mr N £150 compensation and the option to terminate the contract early with no 
early termination fees. Mr N says that he initially rejected the offer as he didnt think it was
enough and wanted more time to think about it; however, he wrote to them requesting an 
escalation of his concerns. Mr N said he called LAL on two occasions in December 2019 
requesting a copy of the offer letter as he hadnt received the original. Mr N said hes never 
received any correspondence from LAL in relation to his complaint.
LAL said it did send Mr N a letter explaining the offer. LAL said they spoke to Mr N twice in 
December 2019 and explained there was a deadline of 15 January 2020 for him to decide 
whether to accept it. And I can see it issued its final response in December 2019 which 
explained the same.
Mr N said that as LAL never got back to him, he called them at the end of January 2020 to 
accept the offer but was told it had expired. Mr N asked if it could be extended and 
requested a copy of the offer letter, but he was told that they wouldnt extend it and that the 
offer would be sent to him.
Mr N says he then told LAL that hed like to repay the agreement early and pay the related 
fees. The car was due to be collected in April 2020, however following some delays the car 
was collected in July 2020 instead. Mr N says he left the car on his driveway during this time 
but didnt drive it. As Mr N had cancelled his direct debit, he received letters regarding non- 
payment, and he said he was also unable to contact LAL as they werent taking calls at that 
time. However, Mr N confirmed that he didnt have to make any additional payments from 
after his car was due to be collected in April 2020.
On 29 January 2020 Mr N brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators looked 
into his concerns. The investigator felt that Mr Ns car was still driveable in July 2019 and so 
concluded that LAL hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr N disagreed with our investigators view and asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. LAL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
My starting point is LAL supplied Mr N with a brand-new car. With this in mind, I think its fair 
to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be significantly higher 
than that of a second-hand car, road worn with higher mileage. I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any issues for a reasonable 
period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from Mr Ns description of events, the diagnostics email from the manufacturer 
confirming the issues and the invoices provided by Mr N confirming the costs related to the issues repaired. Having considered that the car had a fault, Ive had to consider whether it 
was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
From the evidence provided I think its fair to conclude that Mr Ns car was not suitably 
durable. This is because the EGR cooler system failed about a year after Mr N acquired the 
car and hed only driven it for about 5,000 miles. The EGR cooler is a component that is 
largely expected to last significantly in excess of 5,000 miles. If follows that I dont consider 
the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr N.
Having considered the car was not of satisfactory quality, and that compensation was 
appropriate, there are some further issues for me to consider in relation to Mr Ns concerns:
1. LALs offer of compensation to Mr N
2. was it fair that LAL hadnt extended their deadline to terminate the agreement?
3. should LAL have provided Mr N with a courtesy car in July 2019?
4. should Mr N be compensated for the delay to his car being collected at the end of 
the contract?
LALs offer of compensation to Mr N
Mr N has confirmed that he was provided with a courtesy car while the initial repairs were 
being carried out. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr N got a class of a car dissimilar to 
his. Having said that, there would have been a degree of inconvenience for Mr N, for 
example in having to go without the car hed initially hired for a considerable period of time. 
So, I think its right that Mr N is compensated for this.
When Mr N complained to LAL his complaint was upheld and he was offered £150 in 
compensation. In the circumstances I think this was a fair offer from LAL.
was is fair that LAL hadnt extended their deadline to terminate the agreement?
In December 2019, while discussing his complaint with LAL over the phone Mr N says that 
LAL told him he had a deadline of 15 January 2020 to accept their offer to terminate the 
contract early. On 28 January Mr N called LAL to accept their offer but was told hed missed 
the deadline, so the offer was no longer available. Mr N says that he never received the offer 
in writing and that LAL hadnt responded to a letter he sent asking for the issue to be 
escalated.
LAL explained to our investigator that they werent obliged to keep their offer open
indefinitely and so felt they were acting fairly by imposing their deadline.
I think LALs offer to terminate the agreement was fair, and effectively an offer to reject the 
car, which under the CRA is an appropriate remedy. This is of particular relevance as the issue with the EGR had failed after the initial repair in 2018 and at the point Mr N requested 
the termination, the fault was yet to be repaired successfully. So, in the circumstances of this 
complaint I dont think it was fair that LAL hadnt allowed Mr N to terminate the contract in 
January 2020.
LAL have confirmed that the agreement ended in March 2020 with no early termination fees, 
LAL has also provided evidence from the dealer showing that the car had been repaired on 
31 Jan 2020. So, although I recognise it wasnt what Mr N had wanted, Mr N would have had 
use of the car during this period.
In the circumstances I think LAL should compensate Mr N for the inconvenience caused by 
not allowing Mr N to terminate the agreement when hed requested. I havent seen anything 
that persuades me that the impact to Mr N for having the agreement in place for an 
additional two months has caused him any significant financial or material inconvenience.
So, I think £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances.
should LAL have provided Mr N with a courtesy car in July 2019?
Mr N explained that in July 2019 he didnt feel as though his car was safe to drive and had to 
wait around two months for an appointment. He explained that he didnt drive his car during 
this period because he felt it wasnt safe to do so. He says he shouldve been provided with 
a courtesy car or given some compensation to reflect his time not driving the car.
Having given this careful consideration, I wont be asking LAL to do anything in relation to 
this element of Mr Ns complaint. LAL provided our investigator with a copy of an email 
received from the manufacturer outlining the warranty and roadside call out history in relation 
to Mr Ns car. The following notes were made by the manufacturer, in relation to the issues 
Mr N experienced in July 2019:
Customer experiencing EML only. Carried out diagnostic and found P049B-00 for 
EGR lack of flow. Carried out air path routine set up. Have booked in at dealers in 
case reoccurs. Completely safe to drive until App can be reached with EML on. 
Re- calibrated.
The notes advise that the car was completely safe to drive until the appointment. In addition 
to this in his reply to our investigators view, Mr N said that he was verbally told his car was 
safe to drive home but that hed need to have it looked at soon. I recognise Mr N felt the car 
was unsafe and so chose not to drive it. However, the experts opinion, as noted above was 
that the car was safe to drive at that time. So, In the circumstances I wont be asking LAL to 
take any action in regard to this.
should Mr N be compensated for the delay to his car being collected at the end of the 
contract?
Mr Ns hire agreement with LAL was for 36 months and so was due to finish in April 2020. 
However, Mr N said that hed requested an early termination, so the agreement had been 
completed in March 2020. However, he wasnt happy with what appeared to be a 
misunderstanding with the ending of the contract. Mr N explained there was around a three- 
month delay in his car being collected. During the delay Mr N says he received letters 
requesting payment even though his agreement was completed. Mr N explained that when 
the car was collected in July 2020, he didnt have to pay any additional charges, andeverything had been resolved.
I can understand that this would have caused some initial concern to Mr N with the car not 
being collected, and in receiving late payment correspondence, however LAL have 
confirmed that this was a process error on their part and offered to compensate Mr N with
£50 for the inconvenience. In addition, Mr N says the car was on his driveway for the 
duration with no loss or financial cost to him.
So, in the circumstances, I think the £50 compensation offered is fair. However, Ill also be 
instructing LAL to remove any adverse credit information that may exist on Mr Ns credit file 
in relation to this.
I invited both parties to make any further comments.
Mr N responded to provide some more context around him not receiving LALs response to 
his complaint in the post. Mr N also shared how he felt about receiving payment letters, in 
error, at the end of his agreement. 
LAL responded to say that they didnt accept my Provisional decision. LAL made some 
further comments which Ill address below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within their response LAL made the following points:
1. Mr N was informed about LALs deadline for acceptance of the offer of early 
termination
2. Mr N continued using the car after it had been repaired
The above is not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main points 
raised in LALs response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the 
information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues 
here.
Mr N was informed about LALs deadline for acceptance, of the offer of early termination
LAL have said that they verbally confirmed to Mr N on two occasions and at least once in 
writing, that theyd be willing to assist with an early termination of his agreement. They said 
that the deadline to accept their offer was explained to Mr N over the phone, and came with 
no proviso on the success or completion of the repairs.
Although I dont dispute that Mr N knew about the deadline to accept the offer, for the 
reasons explained in my provisional decision, I think LAL should have allowed Mr N to 
terminate his agreement when he requested it on 28 January 2020. 
Ive already established that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr N. Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform 
to the contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform, and one of those remedies is:
the right to repair or replacement (section 23)
Although Mr Ns car had been repaired initially in July 2018 it was confirmed about a year 
later that further repairs were required. The CRA says a consumer may exercise their final 
right to reject in certain situations. One of those situations is:
after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not conform to the contract;
So, under the CRA Mr N would have had the right to reject his car, which is why I explained 
in my provisional decision that LALs offer of early termination was fair in the circumstances; 
and in effect an offer to reject the car. And as LAL hadnt allowed Mr N to do this, for the 
reasons explained in my provisional decision, I think £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances.
Mr N continued using the car after it had been repaired
LAL have explained that the mileage of Mr Ns car on collection was around 500miles more 
than when the repairs had been completed. Although I havent seen any evidence of this, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr N should have use of the car during the term of his 
agreement with LAL. 
In my provisional decision I said that LAL should remove any adverse information held on Mr 
Ns credit file in relation to this agreement. LAL have said theyre not aware of any late 
payment information relating to Mr Ns agreement. However, as Ive concluded that the 
agreement should have been terminated when Mr N requested it in January 2020, should 
any adverse information exist as a result of the agreement not being terminated at that point, 
this adverse information should be removed from Mr Ns credit file.  
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither 
party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons 
as set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the same. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for LAL, however I can assure them 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my provisional 
findings are fair in the circumstances.   
My final decision
To settle the complaint Lex Autolease Ltd has already made an offer to pay £200 
in compensation.
So, in addition to what theyve already offered, my decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should:
pay Mr N £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused by not allowing 
Mr N to terminate his agreement in January 2020; and
remove any adverse information held on Mr Ns credit file in relation 
to this agreement.
If Lex Autolease Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman