DRN-3590786
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc recorded missed payments on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and the facts are not in dispute, 
so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. I say that 
because:
Mr B had a responsibility to manage his credit card account. Its not in dispute that he 
missed some repayments, and he accepts that this was an oversight on his part. 
Santander wrote to Mr B when payments werent received. I note that Mr Bs credit 
card statements also showed that minimum repayments hadnt been made. So, Im 
satisfied that Santander made the account status and arrears known to Mr B  which 
is what Id expect it to do. 
Santander has a duty to accurately report the position of customer accounts to the 
Credit Reference Agencies. Thats what it did here, and in the circumstances, I cant 
reasonably say that it was wrong of the bank to do so. 
I know Mr B accepts that Santander are simply reporting the facts, but he thinks it 
unfair that theres no leniency. While Im truly sorry to hear of the struggles Mr B has 
had with his health, and the wider family circumstances that hes told us about, I cant 
conclude that Santander has done something wrong. The bank was clear in its 
communication with Mr B about the status of the credit card account, and what he 
needed to do. But despite that, the fact is that some of Mr Bs contractual repayments 
werent made. So, it follows that I dont consider Santander to have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying its usual process in such circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr B is regretful about missing some of his contractual repayments, and 
I understand his frustrations at the matter. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont find 
that Santander has acted unreasonably. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman