DRN-4199418
The complaint
Miss F complains about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) handled a 
claim for extra costs under her roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Miss F contacted Acromas in early December 2022 and made a claim. She asked for 
assistance because she said shed damaged two wheels on her car, which had resulted in 
two flat tyres.
Her policy would send help for breakdowns and for accidents. Acromas assessed her claim 
as being one involving an accident. It thought that it couldnt help Miss F due to her location.
Miss F wasnt happy with how she was spoken to by Acromas claims handler.
Miss F called back shortly after and said only her tyres were damaged, not the wheels. So 
Acromas reassessed the situation and sent a recovery vehicle. Acromas recovery vehicle 
helped get Miss Fs car to a local repairer. The car was left there and Miss F and her 
companion used public transport, and a private hire vehicle, to return home. They incurred 
costs of £97.77 for this.
Miss F has made separate complaints to this service about aspects of her claims 
experience. This complaint relates to the Alternative Transport Costs portion of her 
complaint.
Acromas looked into this part of her complaint. It said it would pay Miss F the Alternative 
Transport Costs shed incurred if Miss F could send it a receipt. It said it would do this as a 
goodwill gesture.
It had also agreed to pay an additional £70 compensation for poor service following the initial 
call and that the call hander hadnt arranged for Miss F to speak to a manager.
Miss F remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for £50 
compensation for each part of her complaint. Our investigator looked into it and thought 
Acromas should pay additional compensation of £30 for its mistake not refunding the 
ongoing costs Miss F had encountered, plus interest at 8% simple on the costs.
Acromas didnt agree with the view. It said Miss F wasnt entitled to claim her ongoing costs 
and that it had agreed to pay that amount as a gesture of goodwill only to settle the 
complaint. It also said it didnt agree it should pay the additional compensation of £30 or the
interest.
Because Acromas didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to consider this matter further:
Im issuing this decision as a provisional one because I think the offer made by Acromas is 
fair and I dont intend to ask it to pay more. This alters the view sent by our investigator and 
Ill explain why.
Ive said above that Miss F has made separate complaints about various aspects of this 
incident. They are all being dealt with by this service and they are against different 
businesses.
This decision is about the payment of Alternative Transport Costs, which forms part of the 
cover Miss F had. But in considering this complaint Ive also looked at the other parts of the 
incident so that I have an overall view of the service Miss F has and the response shes 
been given by the businesses.
I can see that Miss F was provided with service by Acromas recovery personnel and she is 
happy with the service received by them. Ive looked at the appropriate part of the policy 
wording which says:
Onward Travel Benefit option B: Alternative Transport Costs
What is covered:
Costs for alternative transport incurred by you and up to a maximum of seven 
passengers travelling to a single UK destination that have been agreed at the time of 
breakdown by the Onward Travel team. Claims should be made in writing and sent 
together with proof of purchases and receipts
What is not covered:
[this exclusion is an exclusion relating to the entire Onward Travel Benefit]
Onward Travel cannot be claimed retrospectively and must be requested at the same 
time as the request for breakdown assistance is made or such assistance is given 
and the AA cannot arrange a local prompt repair
Its important that I say Acromas agreed to pay Miss F her Alternative Transport Costs 
following the first part of her complaint about the lack of service shed had in her first call to 
it.
In later correspondence it has also said it didnt think Miss F was entitled to claim this 
amount because Acromas had recovered her car to a nearby repairer, but Miss F opted to 
have the damaged tyres replaced a few days later. This would mean that the repair was 
available promptly, but Miss F chose to delay having the work done.
Ive thought carefully about this. Having read the policy wording, I think its possible that 
Acromas was reasonably entitled to refuse to pay Miss Fs claim for onward travel. But I also 
think Acromas offer to pay the amount (£97.77) was a fair response.
Ultimately, Miss F asked for assistance. She received it and complained about various 
aspects of the service she received. She was awarded compensation of £70 in connection 
with that service, and promised the recompense of her alternative transport costs as a 
gesture of goodwill, subject to proof of purchase.
Having read the file, I can also see there was a delay in Acromas receiving the evidence of 
Miss Fs alternative travel costs. I can see that Acromas, having agreed to pay these, 
chased Miss F for them after it didnt hear from her.And I can also see there was some confusion about the email traffic between Miss F, this 
service, and Acromas.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Acromas to pay interest on the £97.77 it agreed to pay her 
because I cant fairly say it caused the delay.
Taking everything into account, I think Acromas response and its goodwill gesture are fair 
and reasonable and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision. Acromas said it had already issued the 
payment for £97.77 earlier in the year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my reasoning and final decision remain 
the same.
My final decision
Acromas Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £97.77 as a goodwill 
gesture. For the reasons set out above, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay £97.77 to Miss 
F. Its my understanding that this amount has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman