DRN-2389982
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Lex Autolease Ltd handled his request to change the mileage 
allowance on a hire agreement. 
What happened
In June 2017 Mr C entered into an agreement for the hire of a car. He was to make 50 
monthly payments of £223.84 each. The agreement gave Mr C an annual allowance of 
6,000 miles or 25,000 miles in total. Extra mileage would be charged 8.82p per mile.
The agreement also said, however, that Mr C could ask for the mileage allowance to be 
changed. If he made such a request and it was approved, the monthly rental and excess 
mileage charge might change. The agreement also said that a credit approval process might 
be needed and that Mr C would need to enter into a modifying agreement. 
In June 2020 Mr C asked if he could increase the mileage allowance. He initially suggested 
that he would increase it to 50,000 miles, and Lex Autolease provided an indicative quote. 
Mr C clarified whether the figure given included VAT (it did not) and then asked for a quote 
at 45,000 miles. He then asked further questions about the possibility (and cost) of returning 
the car after a further six months. He decided that he wanted to keep the same term but 
increase the mileage allowance to 45,000 miles (although I note that the modifying 
agreement actually provided for 50,000 miles).
These exchanges took place between 16 June and 10 July 2020. Mr C said that he thought 
Lex Autolease had been slow to respond to his enquiries and that the result was that the 
final revised rental figure was higher than the original quote.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought that Mr Cs enquiries 
had been dealt with promptly. The original quote had been indicative only. Mr C did not 
accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did 
and for similar reasons. 
I have not set out in detail all the email exchanges between Mr C and Lex Autolease, but I 
have considered them carefully. I think they show that Mr C knew that he wanted to increase 
his mileage allowance and that cost might be a factor in deciding by how much. He also 
wanted to examine the option of ending the agreement early, so needed to know the 
financial implications of doing that as well. The email exchanges were therefore an overall 
conversation about a range of options, not a single question with a single answer. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr Cs questions were answered promptly and without any 
undue delay. He did not delay in clarifying his own wishes either. 
Even if I had reached a different conclusion on that point, however, I dont believe that the 
hire cost to Mr C was any higher after those exchanges than when he was provided with the 
initial quote. The hire agreement said that a credit check might be necessary, and the initial 
quote was expressly said to be indicative only. That is, it was not binding; it was an 
indication of what Mr C was likely to have to pay, so he could decide what changes (if any) 
to apply for.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Lex Autolease Ltd to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman