DRN-3226225
The complaint
Mr W complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on his group travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has travel insurance under his employers group policy.
In January 2020, Mr W booked a holiday abroad. He was due to travel on 16 August 2020 
and return to the UK on 23 August 2020. 
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised against all but essential travel to the country Mr W was 
due to be travelling to. 
In April 2020, Mr W called Arch to check whether hed be covered if he needed to cancel his 
trip, as he was concerned as to whether hed be able to travel or not. Arch told Mr W that 
hed need to cancel his flights and provide it with a cancellation invoice before it could 
confirm cover. Mr W decided not to cancel his flights though, on the basis that if the airline 
cancelled his flights, hed likely be entitled to a refund from it.
FCDO advice against travel to Mr Ws destination remained in place at the time he was due 
to go on holiday. So he had to cancel his flights. As the flights still ran as planned though, Mr 
W said he wasnt entitled to any refund of his airfares. And he made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy.
Arch turned down Mr Ws claim. It said the policy didnt cover Mr Ws circumstances. And it 
also said the policy specifically excluded claims which were down to epidemics or 
pandemics.
Mr W was unhappy with Archs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He felt 
that Arch shouldve made it clear in during the April 2020 call that it wouldnt pay out in the 
event of the claim being down to a pandemic.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the claim 
was covered by the policy terms and conditions. And he also thought the epidemic and 
pandemic exclusion had been set out clearly in the policy terms. Arch wasnt able to retrieve 
a copy of Mr Ws call with it. But he didnt think Arch had led Mr W to believe his claim would 
be paid. He also felt that Archs failure to inform Mr W that pandemics werent covered 
hadnt caused Mr W to lose out in any way, because he hadnt cancelled his trip based on 
the conversation. Overall, he felt itd been fair for Arch to turn down Mr Ws claim.
Mr W disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt Arch 
shouldve been able to tell him whether or not hed be covered without needing to cancel his 
flights first. He didnt think the epidemic and pandemic exclusion had been set out clearly, in 
line with the regulators rules. He didnt think he should have to trawl through the policy 
wording to work out whether or not he was covered. And he felt the fact that Arch couldnt 
find his call was evidence of poor record keeping.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I think it was fair for Arch to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Arch treated 
him fairly.
Ive first turned to the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ws contract with Arch. As 
Mr W wasnt able to go on his trip, I think it was appropriate for Arch to assess his claim 
under the cancellation section and the extended cancellation cover provided by the natural 
catastrophe section of the policy. 
Section 1- Cancellation sets out that Arch provides cover for the following, specific, listed 
reasons:
1. Injury, serious illness, death of You, any person with whom You are intending to 
travel or stay, or of an Immediate Relative or Close Business Associate of Yours.
2. You being called for jury service, attending court as a witness (but not as an Expert 
Witness), or Redundancy (for You or for any person with whom You plan to travel);
3. Your Home or place of business becoming uninhabitable, within 14 days of travel, or 
the police asking to see You after theft from Your Home which occurred within 14 
days of travel;
4. Your posting overseas or emergency duty if You are a member of the medical or 
nursing professions, armed forces, police, fire or ambulance services and 
compulsory quarantine.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ws trip was cancelled because at the time he planned to travel, 
there was FCDO advice in place against travelling to his planned destination. The 
cancellation of the trip wasnt caused by any of the insured events Ive set out above. So I 
think it was fair for Arch to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the cancellation section 
of the policy.
Section 19  Natural Catastrophe cover provides extended cancellation cover if a 
government directive prevents travel to a policyholders destination as the result of a natural 
catastrophe. However, the contract sets out what Arch means by a natural catastrophe in the 
definitions section. This says a natural catastrophe is:
Volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado or wildfire.
In this case, the FCDO hadnt advised against travel to Mr Ws destination because of any of 
these listed natural catastrophes. It had advised against travel because of Covid-19. So I dont think Arch acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Ws claim wasnt covered by this 
section of the policy.
Arch has also included a list of specific events which it doesnt cover under any section of 
the policy. One of these is: any epidemic or pandemic. Covid-19 had been designated as a 
pandemic on 11 March 2020  around six months before Mr W was due to travel. The FCDO 
travel advice which remained in place at the time of Mr Ws planned departure date had 
been given to prevent the spread of Covid-19. I dont think then that it was unfair for Arch to 
apply this exclusion to the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. And I dont find it was 
unreasonable for Arch to conclude that not only was the claim not covered by the policy but 
was also specifically excluded from cover by the contract terms.
It's clear Mr W feels strongly that the policy isnt as clear as it shouldve been. Ive thought 
about this carefully. But in my view, the policy terms clearly state the insured events Arch 
covers. The circumstances of Mr Ws claim simply werent covered by the terms of the 
policy. And Im satisfied the exclusion Ive referred to above is clearly expressed within the 
contract. On this basis then, I find it was fair for Arch to turn down Mr Ws claim.
I appreciate Mr W also has concerns about the call he made to Arch in April 2020. Arch said 
it couldnt find the call because of the impact of Covid-19 on the way its staff were having to 
work during that time. Its unfortunate that Arch cant find the call and I can understand why 
Mr W wouldve liked me to be able to listen to it. But Im mindful that during April 2020, many 
companies were dealing with the new operational challenges Covid-19 presented to them 
and affected ways of working. And neither party seems to dispute what Mr W has told us 
happened during the call, so Ive thought about what hes said.
Mr W says that he asked if hed be covered for cancellation if he couldnt travel because of 
Covid-19. And that Arch simply told him it would confirm cover on receipt of a cancellation 
invoice. Mr W chose not to cancel his flights because he knew that if the airline cancelled the 
flights itself, it would likely be responsible for refunding his costs. I do agree that it mightve 
been helpful if Arch had given Mr W a clearer picture of what was covered by his policy. But I 
dont think it couldve given him a definitive answer at that point about what would and 
wouldnt be paid, especially given the impact Covid-19 had on travel claims. And its 
standard claims procedure for an insurer to require a cancellation invoice before it will accept 
a claim and confirm cover.
Even if Arch didnt give Mr W clear enough information during this call though, I dont think 
this caused him to lose out financially. I say that because Mr W chose not to cancel his 
flights at this point. So he didnt therefore incur a loss which potentially couldve been 
recoverable from the airline if it had gone on to cancel his flights in due course. And as Ive 
set out above, any claim wouldnt have been covered in any event. This means I dont think 
Arch needs to pay Mr W any compensation.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ws position because I appreciate hes been left out of 
pocket for reasons beyond his control, I think it was fair for Arch to turn down his claim. And 
Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman