DRN-3473004
The complaint
Mr C complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined his group 
income protection claim. 
Mr C is represented in this complaint, but for ease I will refer to all submissions as being 
made by him directly.
What happened
Mr C has access to a group income protection policy through his employer. The policy is 
underwritten by Legal and General and is designed to provide a regular benefit in the event 
of incapacity due to illness or injury. 
In April 2019 Mr C took a year of compassionate leave following a significant change in the 
health of his wife. He was due to return to work in May 2020, but in April 2020 saw his GP 
who signed him off work for three months citing stress, depression, and anxiety. In July 2020 
Mr C was signed off work for another three months, and his group income protection claim 
was submitted the same month.
Legal and General declined Mr Cs claim for two reasons. One, it said it was submitted late 
which prejudiced its position to obtain contemporaneous evidence and/or provide potential 
support with a return to work. And two, it said the overall evidence made available did not 
demonstrate incapacity. Mr C challenged that decline and provided further arguments and 
information, but Legal and General maintained its decision and so after a failed complaint 
about the matter Mr C referred his concerns to this service. 
Our investigator said it wasnt necessary to reach a finding on whether Mr Cs claim had 
been submitted late or not because, regardless of whether it had or hadnt, the claim itself 
did not satisfy the definition of incapacity. Despite their empathy with what had happened, 
our investigator said there was a lack of specialist evidence to demonstrate an illness which 
prevented Mr C from working and so they could not uphold his complaint.
Mr C disagreed. He said he was suffering from an incapacitating illness which both his 
employer and GP had recognised. He said he had postponed counselling sessions for his 
illness due to difficulties caused by Covid-19 restrictions, and had instead followed the 
advice of his GP which was to increase physical activity. Mr C said it was unreasonable to 
expect him to have seen a specialist at the time and many individuals managed their mental 
health disorders with just the support of their GP. He also acknowledged that his mental 
health issues had in part been caused by his personal circumstances, but said that was no 
reason to conclude he was not suffering from a mental health disorder which had caused an 
incapacity to work. So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal and General has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not 
reject them unreasonably. 
Neither party challenged our investigators opinion regarding late notification. So, as I dont 
consider this a complaint point that remains in dispute I will not address it within this 
decision. Instead, I will focus on whether incapacity was demonstrated. 
The relevant policy documentation (namely the policy schedule and the policy terms and 
conditions) set out that Legal and General will provide benefit in the event of an employee 
becoming incapacitated and prevented from performing their own occupation:
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will 
be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
Both parties will be aware that Legal and General say the available evidence does not 
demonstrate that a clinical illness prevented Mr C from performing the essential duties of his 
own occupation. Its Chief Medical Officer reviewed the available evidence too, and 
concluded the main barriers in Mr Cs return to work appeared to be situational. Mr C 
strongly disputes this, and as I referenced above says the evidence does demonstrate that 
he was suffering from an incapacitating illness. So, Ive looked at what was available:
In support of his position Mr C says his employer did not think he was fit enough to 
return to work and suggested he saw a doctor. I accept Mr Cs employer might have 
had an opinion about his health and his ability to work at the time. But as has rightly 
been explained, Mr Cs employer was not a medical professional and their opinion on 
Mr Cs health and/or his ability to work is not something that can be relied on in this 
context here.
Mr C also says that the evidence from his GP supports that he was suffering from an 
incapacitating illness. Mr Cs GP did sign him off work citing stress, depression, and 
anxiety, and that is of course important. But it is not enough for Mr C to just 
demonstrate that he was unwell. In line with the policy terms he needs to 
demonstrate that illness or injury prevented him from performing the essential duties 
of his own occupation, and the GP fit notes alone do not do that. There is no context 
to the fit notes which detail the impact of Mr Cs health on his ability to work. And 
there is no evidence that the GP considered it necessary to refer Mr C on for any 
more specialised or targeted mental health support when he continued to be signed 
off work. 
Looking at the wider GP evidence, Mr Cs GP also wrote a letter in November 2020 
which reiterated the above and said hed been unwell with stress that year. While this 
letter adds additional context, I dont think it demonstrates incapacity from illness or 
injury. I say this because many of the GPs comments appear to be based on Mr Cs 
self-reporting, and again, despite the GP commenting on a dip in Mr Cs mood 
theres no indication that Mr C was considered as requiring more specialised or 
targeted mental health support or input. Much of the evidence from the GP pointed to 
the difficulties Mr C was experiencing as being largely related to his personal circumstances too:
He has found lockdown somewhat helpful, while being off work and getting 
counselling, and the opportunity to build some routine and stability in an otherwise 
very difficult situation. We have discussed how regular outdoor exercise is helpful for 
his depression, and that supporting his children is a priority as well as a stressor.
The occupational health reports made available are also based on self-reporting and 
so again, although they add wider context and background, I dont think they 
substantiate an incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
Mr C took part in a telephone rehabilitation assessment in August 2020 too. Within 
the report that followed, the rehabilitation specialist set out that Mr C accepted lots of 
his difficulties with a workplace return related to his childcare issues. They also said 
that Mr C thought intrusive thoughts about his wifes future health would impair his 
ability to function well and make rational decisions within the workplace.  As I have 
noted above, evidence like this is helpful, but I still dont think it demonstrates an 
incapacity in line with the policy terms. The findings in the rehabilitation assessment 
appear to be largely based on Mr Cs self-reporting and in relation to his ability to 
undertake his role I note the assessment said:
(Mr C) seems to have a lot of personal problems at present, largely associated with 
his familys health. He seems to have significant childcare issues. However, his level 
of function on a day to day basis, which suggests he is able to go out of the home 
unaccompanied, look after his childrens needs and undertake and organise 
homeschooling, suggests that he would be capable of undertaking work in some 
capacity if his childcare issues were resolved.
A second rehabilitation assessment took place in October 2020. It stated that a lot of 
the issues reported by Mr C seemed to relate to concerns about his childrens 
wellbeing. It also said:
based on his level of function on a day-to-day basis and his level of medical input, 
a return to his role on a part time basis seems achievable at this time. However, as 
he does not seem to be intending to return to work until the New Year, I have not 
arranged to call him again at this time.
Mr C has set out his position at length and has challenged some of what has been said in 
the available evidence. It is clear that he feels very strongly about his position. 
My role here is not to diagnose Mr C of course, but Legal and General was entitled to rely on 
the evidence that was made available to it. I am aware that I may not have addressed every 
single argument or point raised and focused instead on what I considered to be central to the 
outcome of this complaint. But having considered all of the available evidence and 
arguments I dont think Legal and General unreasonably concluded that Mr Cs inability to 
return to work appeared to relate to personal stressors rather than illness or injury.
The above findings are in no way intended to detract from the gravity of Mr Cs situation. 
Like the investigator before me, I too am genuinely sorry to hear of Mr Cs circumstances 
and I wish him and his family well. However, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and 
General to conclude that incapacity had not been demonstrated and so I will not be 
interfering with its position.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman