DRN-2100655
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the limit applied to a claim he made under his home insurance policy 
with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA).
What happened
In January 2013, Mr Ss home was burgled and he claimed to RSA for over £70,000 of 
jewellery and £3,000 in cash. 
RSA told Mr S that because hed not specified any jewellery items on his policy, the total 
claims limit for undeclared jewellery was £7,500. Mr S said he wasnt aware of this limit. He 
said he was told when he took out the policy that he would be covered for £75,000 of 
contents. RSA said Mr S told it that £75,000 would be enough to cover all the contents in the 
home and that he didnt have any items worth more than £1,500.
Mr S provided RSA with some photos of the stolen items and a loss list. In July 2013, RSA 
asked Mr S for more proof of ownership. RSA asked again in August 2013 and tried 
unsuccessfully to contact Mr S. Because RSA hadnt received a response from Mr S, it 
closed his claim in January 2014. 
Mr S called RSA in July 2014 because hed not heard anything about his claim. RSA told Mr 
S it had closed his claim because it hadnt received any response from him. The call handler 
said shed ask a colleague to call Mr S back. 
Mr S contacted RSA again in March 2019. He said hed never been told about the outcome 
of his claim and was waiting for an update. He said hed called RSA a number of times in the 
intervening years, but no-one called him back. He also said that hed not followed-up his 
claim sooner because hed changed jobs and had lost both parents. RSA re-opened Mr Ss 
claim.
In October 2019, RSA told Mr S that his cover for undeclared jewellery was restricted to 
£7,500 as stated in his policy schedule and renewal letter, which said The limit for 
undeclared items of jewellery, watches and items of precious metals is now £7,500. RSA 
said it would pay Mr S a total of £8,000 for his claim - £7,500 for the jewellery and £500 for 
the money Mr S said was also stolen.
Mr S didnt agree. He told RSA that his policy schedule showed the claims limit for contents 
inside the home - which included jewellery - to be £75,000. He said that the £7,500 limit 
mentioned in his policy schedule applied only to undeclared items outside of the home. And 
because the jewellery was stolen from his home, his full entitlement would be £75,000. Mr S 
said he also wanted £5,000 compensation for the distress caused to him by the delay, for his 
emotional attachment to the lost jewellery and for having to complain. 
RSA invited Mr S to refer the complaint to us. RSA then sent a final response not upholding 
Mr Ss complaint. It said the policy limit of £7,500 had been correctly applied to his jewellery 
claim. It said page 3 of Mr Ss policy schedule contains the heading Contents Outside your 
Home, Money and Credit Cards. And that alongside this heading, the policy schedule says, 
not included indicating that Mr S did not select cover for contents outside the home. RSA 
said that the next section of the policy schedule lists Undeclared items of Jewellery, 
Watches and Precious Metals and that alongside this text, a limit of £7,500 is recorded. 
RSA said this cover isnt listed as a sub-section of the Contents Outside your Home section 
of the policy schedule, but rather as a distinct and separate area of cover. Mr S did not 
agree. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He felt RSA applied the £7,500 in line with 
Mr Ss policy terms. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He felt the limit of £75,000 should be applied 
to the claim. He provided the policy schedule for the following years cover pointing out that - 
unlike the policy schedule for the claim year - it showed a limit £7,500 next to where 
undeclared jewellery was listed. He said that if the schedule for the claim year had been laid 
out in this way, he wouldnt be questioning the £7,500 limit. 
Our investigator reviewed these documents, but his view remained unchanged. He said the 
limit of £75,000 applied to all contents and the policy renewal letter sent to Mr S showed that 
there was a limit of £7,500 for undeclared items of jewellery.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint by instructing 
RSA to consider Mr Ss claim for the stolen, undeclared jewellery up to a limit of £75,000 
rather than £7,500. But I was not minded to award Mr S compensation for his trouble and 
upset. I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
I have reviewed Mr Ss policy documents for the policy year during which he was burgled. Mr 
Ss renewal schedule lists his cover in a column on the left of the page. The limits and sums 
insured are listed in another column to the right of this, called LIMIT/SUM INSURED. The 
first heading in the left-hand column on Mr Ss schedule that lists his cover says, Contents 
in your Home and in the sum insured column next to this it says £75,000. Immediately 
under this heading, in smaller text, the schedule says Covers your contents inside the home 
including: any declared items; undeclared items of jewellery, watches and precious metals. 
But there is no sum insured or limit listed alongside this information.
The second heading, underneath the Contents in your Home heading in the left-hand 
column that lists Mr Ss cover says, Contents Outside your Home, Money and Credit 
Cards. Next to this heading in the LIMIT/SUM INSURED column, the schedule says, not 
included. Underneath the Contents Outside your Home heading in smaller text it says, 
Undeclared items of Jewellery, Watches and Precious Metals and alongside this text, a 
limit of £7,500 is listed. 
So, the only limit I can see listed in the Contents in your Home section of Mr Ss renewal 
schedule is £75,000, even though this same section also lists cover for declared and 
undeclared jewellery items. The only limit of £7,500 listed in the schedule appears to apply 
to undeclared items outside - and not inside - the home.Ive also reviewed the covering letter included with Mr Ss renewal documents. The second 
page of the covering letter says, The limit for undeclared items of jewellery, watches and 
items of precious metals is now £7,500. The letter does not say if this limit applies to 
contents in the home or contents outside of the home.
So, given the covering letter and the renewal schedule, I think its reasonable for Mr S to 
think that the £75,000 limit would apply to all contents in his home, including jewellery. I think 
its reasonable for Mr S to assume that the £7,500 limit would apply only to undeclared 
jewellery outside of the home, which is cover he knew he did not have. Also, the renewal 
schedule for the following policy year shows a limit for £7,500 in the Contents in your Home 
section alongside the text about undeclared jewellery items in the home. So it seems to me 
that the £7,500 limit for undeclared jewellery within the home hadnt been included in the 
schedule for the year Mr S was burgled. So, I dont think its fair for RSA to consider Mr Ss 
claim for undeclared items of jewellery up to a limit of £7,500.
Mr S feels RSA should pay him £5,000 compensation for the emotional distress caused by 
the loss of his jewellery, the delays in his claim being handled and for having to complain. It 
wasnt RSAs fault that Mr S was burgled so it wouldnt be fair for it to pay Mr S 
compensation for his emotional distress caused by the loss of his jewellery. And I can see 
there were occasions where Mr S didnt respond to RSAs information requests and 
messages or took a while to do so, so I dont think the delay is mostly RSAs fault. Ill explain 
why.
It is not unreasonable for RSA to want to carry out a further assessment given the 
undeclared items Mr S was claiming for. But RSA took three months from when Mr S 
returned the loss list to tell him his claim would be subject to a further assessment. And it 
was a further month before it contacted him asking him to provide more supporting 
information on the stolen items for the further assessment. After RSA re-opened Mr Ss 
claim in March 2019, it took it seven months to let him know the outcome of his claim, which 
seems quite a long time. When Mr S contacted RSA about 18 months after the burglary 
asking for an update on his claim, he was told someone would call him back. But there is no 
record of RSA calling Mr S back.
Having said all of this, it was five years after Mr S contacted RSA 18 months after the 
burglary that Mr S re-contacted RSA seeking a further update on his claim. Mr S said he 
didnt follow-up sooner because hed lost both his parents and changed jobs. He also said 
that he rang RSA a number of times but no-one called him back. Whilst the loss of Mr Ss 
parents must have been distressing for him, I dont think this or changing his job would mean 
he wouldnt have been able to call RSA for five years to pursue his claim. Also, Mr S cannot 
provide evidence of the phone calls hed made during the five years and RSAs systems 
dont record any such calls either. So I dont think that the bulk of the delay is RSAs fault.
I dont think it would be fair for me to require RSA to pay compensation to Mr S for the time it 
has taken for him to find out if his claim would be covered. This is because much of the time 
between Mr S first making his claim in January 2013 and finding out the outcome of his 
complaint in December 2019 is made up of the period between July 2014 and March 2019 
when Mr S did not pursue his claim.
For the reasons set out above, I am minded to instruct RSA to consider Mr Ss claim up to a 
limit of £75,000 in line with its policy terms at the time Mr S made his claim and subject to 
any other relevant policy terms. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments or 
information. RSA didnt accept my decision. It said in its response that page two of Mr Ss renewal documents for the policy year in 
question states that:
The limit for undeclared items of jewellery, watches and items of precious metals
is now £7,500. (An undeclared item refers to any single item of £1,500 or below in
value.) If you wish to increase this to £15,000 you can by calling the customer
renewal line.
Whilst this statement doesnt say whether the £7,500 limit applies to undeclared items of 
jewellery, watches and items of precious metals either inside or outside of the home, I still 
think its reasonable for Mr S to have thought his total cover for contents, including 
undeclared jewellery, was £75,000. And this is because of the information included in Mr Ss 
policy schedule. 
RSA said in its response that the policy schedule confirms that Contents Outside the Home 
are not included under cover and that whilst the inclusion of the £7,500 limit again directly 
after the Outside of Home cover could cause confusion, it felt the policy wording was clear 
that there was no cover for items outside of the home and that undeclared jewellery is only 
covered in the home to a limit of £7,500. But the policy schedule - despite showing that Mr S 
didnt have contents cover outside of the home  includes a sub-heading concerning 
undeclared items of jewellery under the Contents in your Home main heading. And the 
undeclared jewellery sub-heading is clearly part of the section of the schedule that sets out 
the limits of cover for contents within the home. But there is no sum assured or limit listed 
alongside it. In fact, the only policy limit listed in the Contents in your Home section of the 
schedule is £75,000. So I still think its reasonable for Mr S to believe there was no specific 
policy limit on claims for undeclared items of jewellery and that hed be covered for up to 
£75,000 for undeclared jewellery.  
For the reasons outlined above, RSAs response does not persuade me to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Mr S has accepted my decision and RSAs response hasnt persuaded me to depart from my 
provisional findings. So Ill be upholding Mr Ss complaint in line with my provisional decision.  
RSA should consider Mr Ss claim for jewellery stolen from his home up to a limit of £75,000 
in line with its policy terms at the time Mr S made his claim and subject to any other relevant 
policy terms. But I wont be requiring RSA to pay Mr S any compensation for trouble and 
upset. This is because much of the time between Mr S first making his claim in January 2013 
and finding out the outcome of his complaint in December 2019 is made up of the period 
between July 2014 and March 2019 when Mr S did not pursue his claim.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I instruct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to consider Mr Ss 
claim up to a limit of £75,000 in line with its policy terms at the time Mr S made his claim and 
subject to any other relevant policy terms. I do not require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
plc to pay Mr S any compensation for trouble and upset. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman