DRN-3737892
The complaint
Mr D complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) shouldnt be able to hold him liable to a fixed sum 
loan agreement (loan) he entered into with it.
Mr D has been represented in this complaint, on occasions, by a third party. I will refer to this 
third party as Ms B.
What happened
On 1 December 2020 Mr D entered into a loan with Ikano for £4,850. 
Mr D electronically ticked  the loan agreement to say he agreed to be legally bound by its 
terms and conditions.
Under the terms of the loan Mr D, everything else being equal, agreed to make 119 monthly 
payments (deferred for 12 months) of £53.28 followed by one monthly payment of £52.07  
making a total repayable of £6,392.39 at an APR of 4.9%.
Mr D says that he (or Ms B) agreed to a company, that I will call C, to visit his property on 
1 December 2020 to discuss whether it could save him money on his energy bills.
Mr D says C was unable to save him money on his energy bills, but rather than leaving (and 
giving him a £100 voucher as promised) it went on to sell him a new boiler (and a number of 
incidentals) at a cost of £4,850, financed by a loan with Ikano. 
Mr D says that due to the amount he had drunk before C arrived at his property, and the 
amount he drunk during the three hours C was at his property, he wasnt in a position to 
understand what it was he was agreeing to purchase, or in a position to understand the 
nature of the loan agreement he was asked to sign and signed. And for this reason, Ikano 
shouldnt be able to hold him liable to the loan.
The boiler was installed a few days later.
Mr D says he never agreed to the boiler being installed, but it was installed after Ms B 
allowed C access to his property without his knowledge and permission. And for this reason, 
Ikano shouldnt be able to hold him liable to the loan.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr D disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This means, amongst other things, that I can come to a different outcome to the one a court 
might reach when presented with the same facts.
In his submissions to our service Mr D suggests that no consideration was given to whether 
the loan was, or would be, affordable for him. But I cant see that Mr D has ever raised this 
concern with Ikano. And because of this, I make no finding on this concern in this decision.
Its clear Mr D has very strong feelings about this complaint and I can confirm Ive read and 
considered everything he has submitted. However, I trust that Mr D will not take the fact that 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Having considered everything Mr D and Ikano has said and submitted, I can confirm that Im 
in agreement with the investigators findings and for the same reasons. 
£100 voucher
Mr D says he was advised by C that if it couldnt save him money on his energy bills, it would 
give him a £100 voucher.
I accept I cant say for certain whether C made such an offer, or not. But Ive seen no 
documentary evidence that such an offer was made. Ive certainly seen nothing that would 
persuade me that Mr D purchased the boiler (and incidentals) or agreed to fund the same by 
way of a loan with Ikano, on the strength of such an offer. And because of this, I dont uphold 
this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr Ds state of mind when he agreed to purchase the boiler (and incidentals) and to fund the 
same by way of a loan with Ikano
Mr D says that because of the amount he had drunk before C arrived at his property, and 
whilst C was at his property, he wasnt in a position to understand what it was he was 
agreeing to purchase, or in a position to understand the nature of the loan agreement he 
was asked to sign and signed.I cant say for certain whether this was the case or not. But given that C disputes this was 
the case and that the appointment had been prearranged with Mr Ds full knowledge, I find 
that on the balance of probabilities Mr D was in the position to understand exactly what it 
was he was purchasing and entering into. I also think its worth pointing out that regardless 
of how quickly the install took place, Mr D had at least two days in which he could have 
cancelled the purchase and the loan, but he didnt do so. And because of this I dont uphold 
this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr Ds copy of the purchase contract is unsigned
I accept that Mr D has been able to provide our service with a single page purchase 
document signed by C, but not by him. But, that doesnt mean Mr D didnt sign another 
purchase document. Indeed, prior to providing our service with this single page purchase 
document signed by C, but not by him, Mr D was consistent in his submissions that he 
shouldnt be held liable to both the purchase document and loan agreement he had signed 
because of the amount he had drunk.
Furthermore, Im simply not persuaded that Mr D would have signed a loan agreement, if he 
hadnt signed a purchase document, or at least he wouldnt have signed a loan agreement if 
he wasnt happy to make the purchase subject to that loan agreement. And because of this I 
dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
no authority for the install to take place
Mr D says he never gave C permission to install the boiler. But I dont find this submission 
particularly plausible or persuasive.
Based on what has been said and submitted Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Mr D gave his express authority for the install to take place when it did, or gave his 
authority for the install to take place at a time convenient for Ms B and that C should liaise 
with Ms B to confirm an appropriate install date and time.
Furthermore, had Mr D not given his authority for the install to take place, I dont understand 
why Ms B would have allowed C access to the property, when she did, for the install to take 
place. And because of this I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
rights to cancel
Mr D says he wasnt granted his cancelation rights, either under the purchase document or 
the loan agreement. But as C has pointed out, by agreeing to the install date that Mr D did 
(and that Im satisfied he agreed to), he in essence forwent his 14 day cancelation rights 
under the purchase document. As to his cancelation rights under the loan agreement, I cant 
see that these werent granted to Mr D. And because of this I dont uphold this aspect of 
Mr Ds complaint.
other matters
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate 
that Mr D didnt receive everything C undertook to provide him, or that the 10 year warranty 
is invalid. And having looked at the purchase document (provided by Mr D) and the loan 
agreement (provided by Ikano), Im satisfied that it should have been clear to Mr D what the 
cash cost of the boiler and incidentals were and the total repayable in respect of the same 
over 120 months under the loan agreement. So, I dont uphold these aspects of Mr Ds 
complaint.I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed but given what I say above Im satisfied that in the 
particular circumstances of this case Ikano has done nothing wrong and it can fairly and 
reasonably hold Mr D liable to the loan terms and conditions. However, I would remind Ikano 
of its obligations, if Mr D is in financial difficulties, to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman