DRN-3130265
Complaint
Mr L has complained about the overdraft charges Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
applied to his current account. Hes said he wasnt notified of the charges before they were 
applied.
Background
Mr Ls complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Nationwide 
had done anything wrong as Nationwide had notified Mr L of the upcoming changes to his 
overdraft and it didnt have reason to suspect he may have been in financial difficulty. So she 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Nationwide charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
I know Mr L says that he wasnt notified of the change in the terms and conditions of his 
overdraft. But Ive been provided with evidence that Mr L was sent notifications regarding the 
changes to the overdraft pricing structure via internet banking in July 2019 and August 2019. 
I appreciate that Mr L may not recall these notifications and that he might not have read 
them as he says this is an account he didnt use much. But given Mr L hadnt asked to be 
sent information in an alternative format, its difficult for me to say that Nationwide should 
have taken additional steps here or that it didnt do enough to bring the changes to Mr Ls 
attention or that it acted unfairly in relation to this matter. 
That said, even though Nationwide notified Mr L of these changes in advance of them 
happening, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr Ls account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Nationwide ought to have known Mr L was 
in financial difficulty. 
Ive also looked through Mr L statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Nationwide ought to have been aware that Mr L might have been struggling during the 
period weve looked at. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said earlier, I dont think that 
Nationwide has treated Mr L unfairly. So it doesnt need to refund any interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L  especially as he has quite rightly 
pointed out that hes been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman