DRN-3127752
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited unfairly declined his claim 
to have the benefits of his late partners personal pension policy paid to him.  
What happened
Mr Ms late partner had a Personal Pension Policy with Prudential. Mr M said that theyd 
lived together as a couple, until his partners death in October 2018. He said theyd signed a 
joint tenancy agreement on the property they shared in January 2007. 
Their landlord provided a sworn affidavit to that effect in October 2019, after Prudential had 
distributed the death benefits to the estate. Mr M provided a copy of the joint tenancy 
agreement after the benefits had been distributed. This had been signed by Mr M and 
witnessed by the deceased on 19 January 2007. Mr M said that he didnt initially provide the 
tenancy agreement because it wasnt to hand at the time of the deceaseds death.
Mr Ms partner died at home on 5 October 2018. Mr M registered the death on 11 October 
2018. He also arranged and paid for the funeral. 
A third party informed Prudential of the deceaseds death. They said they were his only living 
relative. The third party told Prudential that the deceased had a partner of three months 
when he died. They said hed stayed with them until he died. And that the deceaseds 
partner had gone travelling for a year. The third party said theyd lived at an address which 
matched an address Prudential had on their records. But didnt match the address listed as 
his usual residence on the death certificate. 
As the deceased hadnt left a will or nominated a beneficiary it wasnt clear who should 
benefit from the policy. So the trustees had to exercise their discretion under the scheme 
rules about who to make a payment to. 
In order to do this, in April 2019 Prudential sent a letter addressed to The current resident 
of the address listed on the death certificate. This said theyd lost contact with the deceased 
but were trying to contact his next of kin. Mr M completed the enclosed claim form and 
returned it to Prudential. 
Prudential replied in May 2019. They asked Mr M to provide additional information so they 
could decide who should receive the lump sum death benefit that was due from the policy. 
They asked for paperwork to confirm whether hed been financially dependent or 
interdependent with the deceased.
Mr M tried to provide documentation to support his claim of financial interdependency.
Appendix 1 of Prudentials May 2019 letter defined a person as Financially Interdependent 
where: a close personal relationship exists between two people who live together and 
provide financial and domestic support to each other. It also provided examples of 
documentary evidence of this, all of which were required to be in joint names. The letter 
stated that if there was no documentary evidence available in joint names, separate bank 
statements in Mr Ms and the deceaseds name which showed the everyday pooling of 
resources for household expenditure could be provided instead.
The letter also defined two other categories of financial relationship.
Mr M replied to that letter in late May 2019. He enclosed documents including household 
bills to show that he shared household expenses with the deceased. He was unable to 
provide joint paperwork at this point. But his letter explained that hed shared living expenses 
for over 26 years. He provided the following bills that were all held in either his name or the 
deceaseds name at the address hed shared with the deceased:
Deceaseds name: 
Bills from January to October 2018 including phone line, broadband, television and 
two mobile phones.
DVLA Vehicle tax reminder for June 2018 for a car registered to the deceased.
Car service invoice for a regular car service plan bill dated September 2017 for the 
same car.
Car finance agreement for the same car, dated October 2018.
TV licence
Credit card bill dated August 2018.
Mr Ms name:
Pet insurance bill dated June 2018.
Electricity bill for June to September 2018.
Sky TV annual warranty for 2018.
Heating Oil bill dated 30 September 2018.
Prudential wrote to Mr M in June 2019 to request the previous addresses hed shared with 
the deceased. And confirmation of when they lived there. Prudential also wanted 
confirmation of whether they owned or rented their current property and evidence of how 
they made payments for it. They also requested a copy of the rental agreement. 
Mr M phoned Prudential the next day to tell them he paid the rent for the property. He also 
sent a letter which confirmed the previous addresses hed shared with the deceased 
between 1994 to 2018. Mr M said that while he paid the rent, the deceased had contributed 
cash towards it, as well as his share of the monthly outgoings. This had been shown in his 
previous evidence. 
Prudential didnt consider that the information provided was enough. On 18 July 2019 they 
wrote to Mr M stating that the information hed provided was not enough for us to exercise 
discretion in your favour and we will not be issuing payment to you. Payment was instead 
made to the estate.
Mr M sought legal advice. In October 2019 he made a complaint to Prudential about the 
claim being declined through his solicitor.  He said he and the deceased were a couple who were interdependent. And included an affidavit from their landlord in support of that.
Prudential issued their final response on 18 December 2019. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said theyd found no evidence of interdependence. They said theyd 
requested evidence to show the interdependence, but that the required information hadnt 
been provided. They considered theyd obtained enough information to make their decision.
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt that the evidence 
showed there was a level of financial connection between Mr M and the deceased. She 
asked Prudential to provide the evidence theyd relied on from the third party, but little could 
be provided. She felt that Prudential shouldve supported Mr Ms claim. She recommended 
that Prudential put Mr M as close as possible to the position he would now be in had his 
claim been accepted. She said Prudential should do this by accepting and paying Mr Ms 
claim. And that they should add 8% simple interest each year until the date of settlement. 
She also considered that Prudential should pay Mr M £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd caused him.
Prudential didnt agree with our investigator. They said theyd received a valid and legitimate 
claim from the estate. And that they hadnt received a valid and legitimate claim from Mr M 
as hed failed to demonstrate financial interdependency. So they considered theyd 
discharged the liabilities in a fair and reasonable manner. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I acknowledge that Prudential have discretion to decide to whom the death benefits are paid 
and in what proportion. But I need to decide if Prudential have exercised their discretion 
properly, applied due diligence and acted reasonably in reaching their decision. 
Based on what Ive seen, I consider that Prudentials decision was flawed. Ill explain why 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
Was Mr M financially interdependent?
When Prudential wrote to Mr M to ask him to evidence his financial interdependence with the 
deceased, they included the following examples of documentary evidence that would be 
required:
Bank statements or passbooks of joint bank accounts.
Credit card statements in joint names.
Loan agreement statements in joint names.
Mortgage statements in joint names.
Tenancy agreement in joint names.Council tax bills in joint names.
Utility bills in joint names.
Vehicle ownership documents in joint names. 
Or, if there is no documentary evidence in joint names, separate bank statements in the 
claimant and deceaseds names showing the everyday pooling of finances for household 
expenditure.
From what Ive seen, Mr M didnt hold a joint bank account with the deceased. And there 
were no joint bills. Instead, he provided evidence which showed Prudential that he and the 
deceased each took individual responsibility for certain separate bills. Mr M responded to 
Prudentials request for proof of his financial interdependency. He said: As requested, I 
have enclosed various household bills/accounts showing that [the deceased] and I shared 
the household expenses, as advised to do in lieu of joint named paperwork. [The deceased] 
and I shared the living expenses over a period of 26 years, which worked well. For example, 
[the deceased] paid for the car and I paid the heating oil bill, [the deceased] paid the 
telephone/broadband and I paid the electricity bill etc.
In his 19 June 2019 letter to Prudential, Mr M said that he and the deceased: only ever lived 
in rented accommodation under my tenancy agreement. He said that it was almost 
impossible to evidence who paid the rent. But noted that he paid it through his bank account, 
while the deceased contributed cash towards the rent monthly. And that these contributions 
were on top of the deceaseds share of the monthly outgoings that Mr M had already 
provided evidence of. Mr M also noted that hed lived with the deceased since 1994. He also 
told Prudential that he had nursed the deceased, had been the one who found him dead. 
And the one whod arranged his funeral. 
On 18 July 2019, Prudential wrote to inform Mr M that hed not proved he was financially 
interdependent with the deceased. So they wouldnt be issuing payment to him.
Our investigator asked Prudential how theyd made this assessment. And what consideration 
theyd given to the evidence Mr M had supplied. And the fact that hed explained how he and 
the deceased had pooled their finances in effect by taking individual responsibility for 
specific shared household bills. Prudential told our investigator that separate bills wouldve 
been sufficient evidence if thered been a bank account that showed the pooling or 
resources.
As noted earlier, the definition of financially interdependent used by Prudential is where: a 
close personal relationship exists between two people who live together and provide 
financial and domestic support to each other. Prudential accepted that Mr M lived with the 
deceased. Mr M provided them with bills showing that both he and the deceased contributed 
to daily living costs. But he didnt initially provide them with a joint tenancy agreement or any 
other proof that he shared the rental costs with the deceased. As none of the evidence Mr M 
provided was in joint names, Prudential didnt consider that hed proved he was financially 
interdependent with the deceased. Prudential also said that they declined Mr Ms claim in 
part due to the conflicting information theyd received about where the deceased was living 
at the time of his death. And how long hed lived with his partner. 
I dont consider that Prudentials position here is fair or reasonable. Im satisfied that the 
evidence Mr M provided showed that both he and the deceased pooled their finances for 
household expenditure. Im not persuaded that such pooling should have to be evidenced 
through a shared bank account. Had a shared bank account been used for the household 
expenditures, it wouldve effectively shown the same information Mr M had provided to Prudential through the billing information hed shared. And its clear to me that in providing 
the information to Prudential, Mr M showed that he was financially reliant on the deceased 
for some of the household expenditure. So Im satisfied that Mr Ms evidence showed that 
there was a level of financial connection between him and the deceased that showed they 
were financially interdependent of each other. I say this even before I consider the tenancy 
agreement, which I will now look at. 
Prudential said that theyd exercised their discretion on who to pay the death benefits to with 
care, having considered the circumstances of the case fully. They said that the Scheme 
rules did allow them to pay the death benefits to someone who: had a financial relation with 
the [deceased] that was one of mutual dependence. But that Mr M hadnt been able to 
evidence financial interdependence to their satisfaction. They said they dont accept 
evidence of pooling resources. And that Mr M had told them that the tenancy agreement on 
the house hed shared with the deceased was in his sole name. They said they didnt 
question this. But that when they received the landlords affidavit they had conflicting 
information as the landlord had confirmed that the tenancy agreement was in both Mr Ms 
and the deceaseds name. Prudential also noted that theyd been given conflicting 
information about the length of time the deceased had been in a relationship and where hed 
been living since 2010. 
I acknowledge that in his 19 June 2019 letter to Prudential, Mr M did state: I can confirm 
that [deceaseds name] and I only ever lived in rented accommodation under my tenancy 
agreement. But I cant see that Prudential ever explicitly asked Mr M to provide any further 
details. I agree that Tenancy agreement in joint names was listed as an item of valid 
evidence to prove financial interdependency. But I also note that Mr M had just nursed, and 
then had to bury, his partner of 26 years. It wouldve been a hugely difficult time for him. So I 
dont consider that one word  my  in Mr Ms letter to Prudential, was sufficient for 
Prudential to decide to not carry out further investigations on this point. Im satisfied that if 
theyd explicitly asked for the tenancy agreement  and said that they couldnt release the 
death benefits to Mr M without it - it wouldve been provided. Im also satisfied that if instead 
Mr M had used the correct word to describe the tenancy agreement  our  Prudential 
wouldve asked to see it. So Im satisfied that although the tenancy agreement was provided 
later than ideal, Prudential should take some responsibility for not accessing it sooner.
Our investigator asked Prudential to provide the contradictory evidence theyd received from 
the third party, as she felt theyd relied on this when considering the length of the deceaseds 
relationship and where hed lived since 2010.
Prudential provided what information they could. But considered that this service didnt have 
authority to be given details about the size of the claim or the full details the third party had 
shared with them. But they were able to tell us the process theyd followed. 
Prudential said the third party told them they were the deceaseds only living relative. And 
that hed had a partner for the last three months. They then asked for contact details for the 
partner. And were told that the third party had no such details as the partner had gone 
travelling for a year. They said the third party had stated that the deceased had been living 
with them when he died. Prudential said that on the same day that they wrote to Mr Ms 
address about the deceaseds death, they also wrote to the third party asking them to 
confirm whether they had been financially interdependent with the deceased. This letter 
asked the third party to confirm the deceaseds previous addresses since 1996 as they 
noted that the address on the death certificate didnt match the address they held on file.
Prudential said that the third party had then told them that they lived at the address 
Prudential held for the deceased. Prudential said that the third party also confirmed they 
were not financially interdependent with the deceased. Prudential wrote to the third party again on 18 June 2019 asking them to confirm when the deceased had moved in with them. 
They said they were told hed moved in with the third party in 2010.
Our investigator asked Prudential what steps theyd taken to verify the testimony theyd 
received from the third party. And to verify the deceaseds address at the time of his death. 
She noted that the death certificate showed that he lived with Mr M, not the third party. So 
asked Prudential for their rationale for deciding to pay the death benefits to the estate on the 
basis of the testimony from the third party.
Prudential said that they didnt need the third party to provide evidence to back up their 
statements as they used their discretion to pay the death benefits to the estate, not an 
individual.  They said that they couldnt pay the death benefits to Mr M as he hadnt been 
able prove financial interdependency.
Prudential said that after Mr M had provided them with various bills in order to try to 
evidence financial interdependence, hed told them he and the deceased shared a house 
under his tenancy agreement. They said that Mr M had been unable to prove that the 
deceased contributed towards the rent. Theyd had no reason to question what Mr M himself 
had told them about the tenancy agreement. Prudential said that based on the information 
theyd been given they considered theyd made the correct decision to pay the death 
benefits to the estate.
After the decision had been made, Mr Ms landlord provided a signed affidavit supporting Mr 
Ms claim. He said: In January 2007 my wife and I entered into a Tenancy Agreement with 
Mr M and [the deceased] who were then resided in [place]. The tenancy related to [death 
certificate address]. I append a copy of the Tenancy Agreement which I have signed and 
docquetted as relative hereto. Without a shadow of a doubt, they were a couple and I would 
be happy to depone to that in Court.
Prudential said that at the time of their decision, theyd not been offered the tenancy 
agreement or the landlords affidavit. They said they didnt receive this information until long 
after theyd made their distribution decision. And asked why Mr M hadnt provided the 
information earlier. Prudential also said that if theyd received those documents before theyd 
made the decision, they wouldve accepted the tenancy agreement, with the affidavit to 
support it, as evidence of financial interdependency (note  Prudential used the term 
financial dependency but I believe they meant financial interdependency). But they said 
theyd asked Mr M to evidence financial interdependency and hed failed to provide it. 
Prudential also noted that a tenancy agreement in joint names is listed as one of the 
documents they will accept as evidence of financial interdependency. Therefore they felt it 
shouldve been clear to Mr M from their first letter that a joint tenancy agreement was 
acceptable. They also noted that where there is conflicting information, they tend to pay the 
estate. Prudential told this service that they dont rely on affidavits. Despite this, they said 
that they wouldve used the one provided to support Mr M being financially interdependent 
with the deceased. Based on this  in my view, sensible exception to their normal approach 
 I consider that Prudential couldve taken a similar sensible approach when they reviewed 
the proof of financial interdependency Mr M submitted.  
Prudential told this service that if the third party had agreed with what Mr M had told them 
then we would probably have paid out to Mr M. But due to the conflicting information theyd 
asked Mr M for evidence to prove his financial interdependency with the deceased. So I can 
see that Prudential wouldnt have then required the further proof the belated tenancy 
agreement and affidavit provided.
Im satisfied that Prudential had enough reason to doubt the third partys testimony from the 
evidence theyd received from Mr M. For example, the death certificate showed that the deceaseds usual address was the house he shared with Mr M. Mr M provided evidence that 
showed the deceased paid for a phone line at that address. And also provided evidence that 
the deceased held car finance and credit cards at that address up until his death in 2018. So 
Im persuaded that Prudential had enough evidence to discount the majority of the 
information the third party had provided them with. Or at least to test the information further. 
Prudential have said that if they hadnt received the conflicting information, they probably 
wouldve paid Mr M. And as I consider that Prudential had sufficient reason to doubt the 
testimony of the third party, Im satisfied that they shouldnt have decided to make the death 
benefit payment to the estate without further investigations being carried out. 
Prudential said in their final response to Mr M that they believed theyd gathered sufficient 
evidence upon which to make their decision to pay the estate. But, as explained above, Ive 
not persuaded that they did. And I note that by the time they sent their final response 
Prudential had also received evidence of the joint tenancy. So they now had sufficient 
evidence by their own normal standards that Mr M was financially interdependent with the 
deceased. I acknowledge that Prudential had already distributed the death benefits to the 
estate at this point. But I consider that they should have at least re-visited the information 
they relied on from the third party at this time. 
While its not my role to tell Prudential to whom the death benefits should be paid, Im 
satisfied that in this case Ive seen clear evidence that Prudential couldve identified Mr M as 
financially interdependent BEFORE they made their distribution decision. Had they done so, 
Im satisfied that they wouldve made the decision to distribute the death benefits to Mr M. I 
say this because Prudential themselves said this is what they would probably have done. 
Distress and inconvenience
From everything Ive seen, Mr M was financially interdependent with the deceased. I 
consider that he provided sufficient information to Prudential for this to have been 
established to their satisfaction. Mr M has provided evidence to this service that another 
pension provider exercised their discretion to pay the deceaseds death benefits to Mr M. 
And I consider that Prudential had enough information to do the same.
Instead, Prudential allowed evidence from a third party that they shouldve investigated 
further, to influence their distribution decision. I can only imagine how painful it mustve been 
for Mr M to have shared his life with the deceased for so long, only to find out that a provable 
lie about a three month long relationship had helped to lead to his partners death benefits 
being distributed elsewhere.
In light of the considerable distress this must have caused Mr M, and due to the length of 
time this complaint has taken to resolve, I agree with our investigator that fair compensation 
is £1,000.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in had his claim been accepted.
I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to accept Mr Ms claim and pay him 
the death benefits from the deceaseds policy. They should also add 8% simple interest each 
year from the date the death benefits were initially distributed to the date of settlement, to 
reflect the fact that Mr M has been deprived of the use of that money. 
I also require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £1,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their handling of the claim.    My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman