DRN-2283307
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants compensation for its level of service 
and for it to reimburse her for the repair costs and lack of a courtesy car.
What happened
Mrs As driver side window was smashed and so she made a claim on the glass cover of her 
motor insurance policy. UKIs agent twice attended her with the wrong glass before fitting the 
correct one. Mrs A said the agent caused her cars battery to go flat and that he damaged 
the doors lock when he tried to repair it. She was also unhappy with his attitude. 
UKIs agent agreed that its service had been lacking and it paid Mrs A £70.70 compensation 
for twice not having the correct glass and for her calls. It said it wasnt responsible for the 
faulty door lock. UKI paid Mrs A a further £100 compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service. But Mrs A was unhappy with this and that she 
had to pay for the lock to be repaired and wasnt then provided with a courtesy car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
£170.70 compensation was fair and reasonable for the inconvenience and upset caused by 
UKIs level of service. She couldnt see evidence that UKIs agent had damaged the lock. 
She thought it was caused by broken glass in the incident. 
Mrs A replied that she thought UKI was responsible for the lock repairs as its agent had tried 
to fix the lock, but he wasnt able to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs A feels frustrated by UKIs level of service on this occasion. The 
repairer brought the wrong glass on two occasions and she lost over a days annual leave 
waiting in. She spent time on the phone explaining her concerns to the repairer. And then 
she had the bother and expense of having to get the lock repaired herself. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mrs A claimed under the Windscreen damage section of her policy. This 
states:
We will pay to:
 replace or repair broken glass in the windscreen, sunroof or windows of your car, and 
repair any scratching to the bodywork caused by the broken glass, as long as there has not 
been any other loss or damage to your car;
And so I think Mrs A was entitled to have her window replaced under her policy, and this was 
eventually done. But Mrs A said that the door wouldnt open properly after the glass was 
replaced. She said it wouldnt open from the inside. 
From what I can see, the repairer decided that broken glass had got into the doors lock. He 
tried to remove it but couldnt. He wouldnt remove the door panel as he wasnt trained to do 
this. Mrs A was told to take her car to a garage for repair. Mrs As garage eventually made 
the repair, but its report doesnt state what the cause of the problem was. 
Mrs A thought the technician had damaged the lock. But I havent seen any evidence to 
show this. His report says that he tried to remove the broken glass affecting the lock, but I 
cant see how he did this. Mrs A said he didnt dismantle the door. So I dont have evidence 
that he broke the lock. 
From other cases Ive seen, the problem Mrs A found isnt unusual when a window is 
broken. I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to decide that some shards may have been 
dislodged when the window was broken and ended up in the lock mechanism. And as this 
wasnt caused by its poor repairs, I dont think it can be reasonably held responsible for this. 
So I think UKI carried out the window replacement in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. And I cant say that UKI needs to reimburse Mrs A for the cost of the repairs to 
the doors lock or provide her with a courtesy car.
Mrs A has been paid a total of £170.70 to compensate her for the two failed call-outs, the 
cost of her calls, and her trouble and inconvenience. I think all claims include some 
inconvenience.  And I think UKI has recognised the trouble and upset its agent caused for 
Mrs A. I think the total compensation paid is in keeping with what Id require in similar 
circumstances. So I dont require UKI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman