DRN-4101674
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the cancellation by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) of his home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes its agents and representatives in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Mr W initially made a claim to RSA for damage to his PC monitor and studio mixer in 
February 2023. RSA appointed agents to carry out an inspection of the damaged items and 
contacted Mr W to arrange their collection and to arrange a video interview. Mr W didnt 
agree with RSAs proposals, and he subsequently withdrew his claim. As a result, RSA 
cancelled his home insurance policy. Mr W felt that RSA had done so unfairly and that it had 
acted in a discriminatory manner towards him. He also believed that RSA had disregarded 
his disability needs. Mr W complained to RSA however it maintained its position.
In the circumstances, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that RSA had cancelled the policy in line with its 
terms and conditions. She said that Mr W failed to provide suitable arrangements for the 
items to be collected for inspection. She also noted that Mr W had refused to take part in a 
video interview and wasnt aware of any request by Mr W to adjust the process due to 
disability. She concluded that RSA hadnt acted in an unfair manner.
Mr W remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions of the 
relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner. Ive concluded that it has, and Ill explain 
why. In reaching this conclusion, Ive considered the submissions of both parties, which can 
be summarised as follows.
I firstly turn to what Mr W has said about the matter. Mr W was clear that he had co-operated 
with RSA. He said that he did indeed arrange review of the broken item(s) but the third party 
did not provide correct details or make reasonable ability to send any item. Mr W said hed 
raised this with both RSA and its agents via phone call and in writing and raised a complaint 
with both at that stage. He received no response from the agents. Mr W said that he realised 
that the excess on the policy would exceed the claim and so he didnt pursue the claim 
further and he considered this to be his legal right. He didnt consider that he should be 
intimidated into being forcibly made to bring claim on my policy. 
Mr W said that it was following his complaint that he was told he would need to be 
interviewed to discuss his complaint and claim. Mr W said he was busy and didnt accept; to 
be bullied by insurance company interview tactics, likened to some Police interview. Mr W 
therefore declined and requested an alternative, being correspondence in writing as phone 
calls. He said that interviews could exacerbate his medical condition. He added that RSA 
had only requested an interview after hed already withdrawn his claim. He said the 
interview; seems a deliberate method to find excuse to cancel my insurance.
Mr W felt that hed been discriminated against by RSA and considered the insurance 
cancellation as malicious punishment following my complaint over service. Mr W thought 
RSAs reasoning for cancelling the policy was false and hadnt taken into account an 
accessibility need and disability and no alternative had been offered. He gave examples of 
where cancellation might be appropriate, such as non-payment of premiums, 
misrepresentation of information, or changes to the property that make it ineligible for 
coverage. He said that none of these applied here. Mr W thought that RSA were insinuating 
that hed misrepresented information, but their position was vague. He categorically denied 
any such false allegation. Mr W also felt that RSA had changed its reasoning as excuse to 
cancel my insurance. He felt that there had been failures by RSA to contact him and to 
return his calls and e-mails. 
Mr W also thought that the policy cancellation took place without justification or formal 
explanation. He was then left without insurance and without the opportunity to seek an 
alternative policy. He said it also affected his car insurance policy and felt This action has 
also meant that I am a high risk of harm, as my insured items are of considerable high value. 
The sudden removal of insurance has also left me in breach of law, as items insured are of 
legal requirement Mr W said that he should have had notice of, and the opportunity to 
challenge such a sudden cancellation and should have received a refund on his premiums. 
He also said that the removal of insurance inflicted damage to his professional registrations 
and reputation. It had also left me out of pocket, as risk of harm and upset/stressed. Mr W 
was therefore seeking considerable compensation to include the extra insurance cost, 
damages, reinstatement of his previous excellent insurance reptation and a full written 
apology from RSA.
Finally, Mr W said that it was clear that the whole point of discussing his policy by video 
interview was to discuss his complaint and not the claim; Also, I would like to arrange an 
appointment with you when we would be able to discuss the circumstances of the claim and 
the policy in full. This would be a video interview and if you can confirm some dates and 
times that you would be available, this can then be arranged. 
I now turn to what RSA have said about the matter. It described the process it had intended 
to carry to validate Mr Ws claim. It appointed its agents to carry out an inspection of the 
damaged items to determine the cause and if they can be repaired. It said that Mr W was 
unhappy that agents had been appointed and a video interview call was requested. RSA 
referred to the terms and conditions of the policy booklet under the heading of claims 
conditions. It quoted from the document as follows: well arrange for the damage to be 
inspected by one of our representatives or an independent loss adjuster or other expert 
whose aim is to help us agree a fair settlement with you. RSA said that it had requested an 
appointment with Mr W to discuss the circumstances of the claim and the policy in the form 
of a video interview. It noted that the policy stated that the customer needed to give RSA any 
help and evidence needed about the cause of the claim and its value.
RSA stated that Mr W hadnt agreed for either request to be carried out and had asked for 
the claim to be deleted. It accepted that it had then sent a letter stating that due to the lack 
of co-operation with your claim, your policy cover will no longer continue. It also stated that cancellation meant that this may; influence the judgment of an insurer in calculating a 
premium or deciding whether to cover a particular risk. You must disclose material facts to 
any current or future insurer or risk having future policies declared void and any settlement 
on claims being declined. It then said that it had instructed solicitors, and also provided 
details of the address for service of any proceedings by Mr W. In its final response letter it 
said, if you would like to co-operate and for us to reconsider this decision, please contact [a 
representative] who will be happy to advise you further on this matter.
In its case notes, RSA recorded the communication exchanges which took place between 
early and March 2023 regarding Mr Ws claim. The case notes described the damage which  
had occurred to Mr Ws monitor and part of his studio equipment and noted that he 
considered the total value of the relevant equipment to be approximately £1,100, with the 
excess amounts on the policy being £200. 
The case notes show that shortly after notification of the claim, RSA confirmed to Mr W in 
writing that it would like to inspect the damaged items and referred to its process for doing 
so. The following day, the agents attempted to contact Mr W to book collection of the items 
for inspection. Mr W raised a complaint and said the items were specialist items and he 
wasnt happy for some amateur to look at the items. He also raised doubts as to whether 
RSAs agents; would be able to test the equipment to the required spec needed to access 
its functionality. He said that the manufacturer was based in the USA and that there was a 
confidentiality agreement, and he thought they would suggest a replacement would be the 
most economical solution. Mr W also stated; I am very busy and will need to change work 
rotas to suit and secondly the damaged items are broken & not fully working, what else is 
there to it? Finally, Mr W also said he didnt feel it secure to hand over the items to just 
anyone and felt there was always an argument with any claim and that it was pointless 
having insurance.
In mid-February, the case notes show that RSA again wrote to Mr W to confirm that the 
policys terms and conditions set out the expectation that an inspection would be arranged 
and that the customer would give RSA any information and assistance required. It asked 
when its agent could contact Mr W so that collection and inspection could be arranged. The 
RSA representative stated that she would like to arrange an appointment to discuss the 
circumstances of the claim as well as the policy. She said that this would be through video 
interview. She then asked for available dates and times. Mr W replied that if RSA wished to 
speak to him, then it could be by telephone or formal letter. He said, I do not do 'video 
interview' exactly who do RSA believe they are, some kind of Police force? 
Following this, Mr W said that he wanted to delete his potential claim. He thought it was 
more financially feasible for him to do so as he said that time away from his day job was 
impractical and was currently very busy. Whilst he said he had no problem with the goods 
being inspected should this be by a qualified person, he said he wouldnt stand by and face 
extortion by RSA. He considered that it would collect the goods, argue the case without 
professional inspection to bring down the value of the claim, pay a pittance and then 
resale the goods for profit. Mr W thought that if theyd been other goods or fire damaged, 
RSA wouldn't be bothered with such inspection. RSA replied that as a claim had been 
intimate, it considered it appropriate to complete its enquiries. RSAs representative 
reiterated that she wished to discuss the claim with Mr W and thought it reasonable that this 
be completed through a video conference or interview. 
Having considered all submissions and evidence, Ill now provide the reasoning for not 
upholding this complaint. The starting point in considering this matter is the insurance 
contract which sets out what is expected of both parties in the event of a claim. As to the right to cancel the policy, the policy says: We may also cancel your policy if we 
identify serious grounds for doing so, including but not limited to - failure to provide us with 
information weve requested thats directly relevant to your cover or any claimor nuisance 
or disruptive behaviour. In these circumstances wed contact you at your last known address 
and seek to resolve the matter with you. If a solution cant be agreed, we may cancel your 
policy by giving you 14 days notice.
As to the claims conditions it says: After you contact us: Well arrange for the damage to be 
inspected by one of our representatives or an independent loss adjuster or other expert 
whose aim is to help us agree a fair settlement with you. It goes on to say, you must give us 
any information or assistance we require.
Mr W has quoted the extract from RSAs letter as follows; I would like to arrange an 
appointment with you when we would be able to discuss the circumstances of the claim and 
the policy in full. This would be a video interview and if you can confirm some dates and 
times that you would be available, this can then be arranged. Whilst I agree with Mr W that 
its possible that RSA wished to discuss Mr Ws complaint, it also specifically refers to the 
circumstances of the claim as well as the policy itself. I note that its also possible that RSA 
wished to discuss cancellation during this video interview.
It is the case that inspection of damaged electrical items is a standard requirement in many 
insurance policies. In addition, co-operation as to provision of information and assistance by 
the customer to the insurer is generally required. Im therefore satisfied that RSAs request 
for inspection of items in this instance wasnt unfair, unreasonable, or discriminatory. Having 
studied the case notes, I consider that from the evidence, it appears that Mr Ws primary 
concern was around RSAs requirement to inspect the items which Mr W said had been 
damaged. Whilst I note the reasons given by Mr W for being reluctant for inspection to 
proceed, RSA had explained that an inspection would be carried out by experts on its behalf. 
I dont consider that it was unfair or unreasonable for RSA to insist upon this in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of a policy, even when Mr W then decided to withdraw his 
claim, as he was entitled to do. This is because inspection of items was a part of RSAs 
requirements under the policy contract which the parties entered.
I note that Mr Ws complaint was raised after RSAs representative had repeated that 
inspection was required and wished to arrange a video interview. I appreciate that Mr W has 
now clearly stated in his complaint to this service that this was due to health needs. Whilst I 
dont doubt that Mr W had raised these needs in telephone conversations with RSA, his 
response; I do not do 'video interview' exactly who do RSA believe they are, some kind of 
Police force? raised a fundamental objection to the methodology, rather than any objection 
on the grounds of health to RSAs request. He added; I have issued my discontinuance of 
the claim to you and with that the matter is concluded. I consider that it is therefore clear 
that Mr W was adamant that he would not co-operate with RSAs on-going investigation into 
the claim, regardless of any surrounding circumstances.
As to Mr Ws contention that it was clear that the whole point of RSA discussing his policy 
was to discuss the complaint and not the claim, I cant agree. The sentence quoted by Mr W 
above comes after a sentence which again asks for inspection of the items. I consider that 
the evidence shows that RSA did seek to resolve the matter with Mr W, however his 
adamant refusal to co-operate over inspection and subsequent video interview indicate that 
all efforts to discuss the claim and the policy would have been futile and Mr W was simply 
intent upon pursuing his complaint. I therefore consider that RSA didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in concluding that Mr W had failed to comply with the terms and conditions of 
the policy in meeting what I consider to be reasonable requests in all the circumstances. Whilst RSA cancelled the policy after Mr W had withdrawn his claim, I cant say that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in requiring the matter to be looked into and in wishing to discuss 
the policy in general and to do so via a video interview or meeting, particularly in the 
absence of clear medical evidence at the time that this would cause health concerns to Mr 
W. If he had raised these concerns with regard to a video interview, then I would have 
expected RSA to make any reasonable adjustments to arrangements. However, on balance, 
I dont see that Mr W raised such concerns.
As to the manner of cancellation, I agree with Mr W that cancellation of a policy can have 
serious consequences for a consumer and should not be undertaken lightly, as the customer 
will need to tell future insurers if theyve had a policy cancelled which could potentially 
increase the cost of future insurance. Having said this, insurers are entitled to cancel a policy 
in certain circumstances, and this includes where there has been a failure to comply with the 
terms and conditions of a policy. The right to cancel is clearly highlighted in the policy as 
above. I note that the cancellation letter was sent at the end of February 2023 and provided 
14 days notice of cancellation and I dont consider this to be an unreasonable notice period. 
I also note that in its final response letter, RSA offered Mr W a subsequent opportunity to co-
operate if he wished it to reconsider the matter. There is no evidence that Mr W wished to 
take up this opportunity.
In summary, RSA have stated the reason for cancellation as Mr Ws non-co-operation in the 
insurance claim which he then withdrew. Ive concluded that it was fair and reasonable for 
RSA to treat this as having constituted a breach of the policy conditions which would have 
prejudiced its ability to fully investigate the claim in the context of the policy history. In the 
circumstances Im satisfied that RSA havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling Mr 
Ws home insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman