DRN-2798303
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy a claim made under his property insurance hasnt been accepted in full by 
Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust).
What happened
In December 2019 Mr Ps tenant notified him of water entering his property following bad 
weather. Mr P contacted Amtrust, the provider of his property insurance policy.
Amtrust asked Mr P to provide quotes for repair and images of the damage. Mr P arranged 
for a contractor to attend to take photos and carry out emergency works to the roof to stop 
the water entering. He submitted the invoice and images to Amtrust.
Amtrust said that whilst they acknowledged storm conditions occurred, they didnt think the 
storm was the dominant cause of the external damage. Rather they said it didnt appear 
recent. So they declined the external damage part of the claim based on exclusions in the 
policy for historic damage, wear and tear and gradual damage. But they said they could 
consider the internal damage under the accidental damage part of Mr Ps policy, if he 
provided further information.
Mr P was unhappy with Amtrusts position, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
Amtrust had relied on the exclusions unfairly, as the images in her view supported that it was 
likely wear and tear and historic damage. She also said that Amtrust said they would 
reconsider things if Mr P could provide further information, and that they could consider the 
internal damage under the accidental damage section of Mr Ps policy and she thought that 
was reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at complaints about storm damage claims, we consider three main questions. 
If any of the answers to the three questions are no then its likely a claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions
This point isnt in dispute, Amtrust accept there were storm conditions at the time Mr P 
reported the claim. Ive also seen the weather records for this time, and as this isnt disputed, 
I wont consider this point further.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage
There is one part of the roof visible in the images provided which show a chipped tile on the 
edge of the roof. Mr P says the chip isnt related to the storm damage claim and has asked 
that we dont consider that specifically.
A close up image of a tile which has moved has also been provided, along with a wider 
image of the roof. Mr P says this moved tile was caused by the storm, and there were other 
tiles moved too, which then resulted in water entering the property. A tile being lifted could 
be consistent with storm damage - in the right conditions. 
Was the storm the dominant cause of damage
As Ive mentioned, there were storm conditions at the time and thats accepted by all parties, 
and a tile being lifted could be storm type damage in the right conditions. But I also do have 
to take into account the weather conditions werent overly severe at the time.
Having seen images of the roof, there is debris, and moss across the roof, including 
surrounding the moved tile visible in the image. And whilst Mr P has asked that we dont 
consider the chipped tile photo, aside from the chip itself, this does show the general 
condition of the roof, along with the other images. So whilst Ive not based my decision on 
the chip specifically, the image still shows the general condition of the roof, which Ive taken 
into account along with the other images. And even without the image of the chipped tile, I 
still wouldve reached the same conclusion.
Amtrust says that the images show there has been gradual damage and wear and tear to 
the roof and its historic, rather than being caused by the weather conditions at the time the 
claim was reported. Im inclined to agree with this.
Having considered the weather conditions at the time, and the images of the roof which 
show it is covered in debris and moss (including around the displaced tile) I think on balance 
its most likely historic, wear and tear and/or gradual damage, rather than caused by the 
weather specifically at the time of the claim. And this is excluded under Mr Ps policy.
So I dont think its been shown the storm or weather at that time was the dominant cause of 
the external damage to the roof. And whilst I note Mr P has also given other reasons how his 
roof might have been damaged, his policy covers specific events which occur and it would 
need to be shown it is one of those. And based on all the information provided, Im not 
persuaded that its been shown that the weather or storm at that time was the dominant 
cause. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim for external 
damage on this basis of the exclusions they have relied on.
Amtrust have said that if Mr P can obtain any further evidence then they will revisit things. I 
think thats fair in the circumstances.Amtrust have also said they will consider the internal damage under the accidental damage 
section of Mr Ps policy if he provides additional information. Mr P says hed rather not have 
this as a separate claim and thinks it should all be covered (including the roof external 
damage) as one claim. But I dont think Amtrust has unfairly declined the external damage. 
So I think that considering it under accidental damage  if Mr P chooses to pursue that part 
of the claim - is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman