DRN-3551370
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the compensation British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) paid him after it 
damaged his boiler during a service.
What happened
Mr D had a home emergency policy with BG, which included an annual boiler service. During 
the routine check, part of the boiler broke. BG ordered a new part which didnt fit, so it tried 
to obtain the correct part. The manufacturer told BG the part was obsolete.
BG advised Mr D to buy a new boiler. It provided a quote including a customer discount. He 
accepted and BG installed a new boiler.
Mr D then complained to BG because he didnt think hed needed the new boiler. He said the 
old boiler part was still available, so BG shouldve been able to repair his boiler. Mr D said 
BG mustve sold him a new boiler that he didnt really need. 
Because he believed BG caused the original damage, which in turn meant he bought a new 
boiler, Mr D didnt think BG had handled his claim properly or fairly. He said £400 
compensation BG paid him wasn't enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said BG told Mr D that his boiler was old, 
and parts may be difficult to find. She said BGs explanation for the breakage was 
reasonable, so our investigator didnt uphold the complaint or recommend any further 
compensation.
Mr D didnt agree. He said the relevant part wasnt obsolete, so he believed BG couldve 
fixed the fault. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr D will be upset, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
There are two issues here:
whether or not BG broke Mr Ds boiler causing him to need a new one, and
whether the £400 payment BG made to Mr D was enough in the circumstances.
Broken part
Theres some dispute about the part that broke. BG told Mr D the part was obsolete, so he 
needed a new boiler. Mr D said the part he needed was available. Looking at the service 
record, BG clearly recorded that the thermocouple broke and the manufacturer confirmed it 
was no longer available. I dont think that necessarily means one couldnt be sourced at all. 
But the records show that the manufacturer confirmed the part was obsolete, so Im satisfied 
it was reasonable for BG to pass that information on to Mr D. I also note BG told Mr D in his 
policy renewal documents that parts may be difficult to source due to the age of his boiler:
Our records show that your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular 
model of boiler a while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your 
boiler, some other parts are becoming difficult to source l This means we may not be 
able to fix your boiler if it breaks down
So, I think its fair to say BG put Mr D on notice that it may not be able to repair his boiler for 
much longer.
Although Mr D says BG broke the part, causing him to need a new boiler, the evidence 
doesnt support that. BG said the part broke during the annual service, and explained that 
some boiler parts become brittle over time because of age and constantly changing 
temperature. Given the age of Mr Ds boiler, I think thats a plausible explanation. I havent 
seen anything in the evidence to suggest that BG did anything wrong to cause the part to 
break.
Compensation
Mr D is unhappy with the compensation of £400 that BG offered him. He says BG broke his 
boiler in winter, so he had to accept its offer to replace it; it took two weeks to install, and he 
paid more for the boiler from BG than he needed to. 
I realise it mightve been uncomfortable for Mr D to be without a functioning boiler during the 
early winter period. But, as Ive said the evidence doesnt show BG caused the part to break, 
I cant fairly hold BG responsible for the loss of boiler use.
The work records show that BG installed Mr Ds new boiler eight days after the annual 
service, which was just five days after Mr D accepted its quote for a new boiler. I dont think 
thats an unreasonable length of time to wait.
Although Mr D is now unhappy with the price he paid, which included a loyal customer 
discount, I cant say BG did anything wrong by providing a quote. If Mr D was unhappy with 
the price, he was free to choose another boiler installation service.
Having considered these points, I see no reason to ask BG to pay any more compensation.
Summary
Overall, I think it was unfortunate that Mr Ds boiler broke during the annual service and that 
he needed to pay for a new boiler when he wouldnt have been expecting it. But I cant see anything in the evidence to suggest that BG did anything wrong. It provided a reasonable 
explanation for the broken part, and quoted for a new boiler, which Mr D accepted. 
I wont be asking BG to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman