DRN-3443567
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Mortgages Plc has handled her mortgage and how theyve 
treated her. She feels Mortgages Plc have bullied and abused her. She is also unhappy with 
the arrears charges they have applied to her mortgage account and that they are sending 
letters to an incorrect address.
What happened
Mrs S took out a mortgage in 2007 through a broker who she believes acted fraudulently. 
She said she was mis-sold this mortgage as it was unaffordable to her. Mrs S has explained 
that she has been in severe financial difficulty over the years and she has struggled to 
maintain her mortgage payments. Mrs S feels she has been bullied and abused by 
Mortgages Plc and feels threatened with foreclosure as well as being charged arrears fees 
by them. Mrs S has also explained shes unhappy that Mortgages Plc wont communicate 
with her by email, and that they choose to send her letters instead. 
She has explained that Mortgages Plc are sending letters to an incorrect address, therefore 
she is not receiving these. She said she has asked Mortgages Plc to amend the address 
they have for her which she says they did  but have since reverted to what it was before  
and this is causing her lots of issues.
Mrs S is self-employed and has explained she has been unable to work during the pandemic 
and has been suffering with various health issues which are also heavily impacting her. 
She complained to Mortgages Plc who sent their final response to her complaint on 8 April 
2021. Mortgages Plc explained that they were satisfied that the arrears charges were 
applied correctly and explained their reasons for not being able to capitalise the arrears. 
They recognised they failed to make an amendment to her home address, so they offered 
her £50 to reflect this error. They also said that they dont usually communicate by email and 
havent done anything wrong in communicating with her by post. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with the response she received from Mortgages Plc so she brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Mrs S explained 
she would like the arrears to be capitalised on the mortgage and she would like the arrears 
fees to be refunded and for Mortgages Plc to stop sending her arrears letters. 
After reviewing the complaint, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt find 
that Mortgages Plc did anything wrong. He did say that Mrs S should engage and work with 
Mortgages Plc to try and come to an agreement so they could support her through this 
difficult time.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator and in summary felt her integrity was being thrown 
into question while Mortgages Plc are left to get away with extortion and abuse. 
In order to resolve the complaint, Mrs S would like the arrears to be absorbed in the 
mortgage balance, the arrears charges to be refunded and for Mortgages Plc to stop 
sending her letters and start communicating with her by email. She has also commented that 
she would like the Financial Ombudsman Service to fine Mortgages Plc for their abusive 
behaviour towards her. 
As Mrs S disagreed with the investigator, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made very detailed submissions and provided a lot of information as to why she 
believes her complaint should be upheld. I will not comment on every point that Mrs S has 
made, but I want to reassure her that I have considered everything she has told us when 
issuing my decision. 
Id like to clarify that over the years, Mrs S has raised multiple complaints to Mortgages Plc 
and some to the Financial Ombudsman. Some of the complaint points that Mrs S has made 
have been previously considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service where a final 
decision has already been issued. I will therefore not be commenting about the possible 
fraudulent behaviour of the broker that sold her mortgage, or that the mortgage was mis-sold 
to her as it was unaffordable. We have already sent out a final decision on these matters. 
The Financial Ombudsman also sent out a final decision in 2017 regarding other complaint 
points that Mrs S brought to us which also found that Mortgages Plcs contact with Mrs S 
wasnt abusive or excessive. I will look at what has happened since that decision to see if 
there has been any inappropriate behaviour by Mortgages Plc towards Mrs S.  
[ think it may help at this point if I explain the Financial Ombudsman doesnt supervise, 
regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise 
businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. My role is to see if Mortgages Plc has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
dealings with Mrs S. 
Arrears, capitalisation and charges
I understand that Mrs S has been going through a very difficult time and Im sorry to hear 
about all of her health issues  I know this would have been an extremely worrying time for 
her. 
Mrs S has been in financial difficulty and looking at the mortgage statements, arrears started 
to build up from December 2018. I can see that Mortgages Plc have tried numerous times to 
contact Mrs S to discuss the arrears on the mortgage but were largely unsuccessful in doing 
this. I can see that Mrs S requested a payment holiday which was also granted for three 
months during the pandemic.
Mrs S asked Mortgages Plc not to contact her by telephone which resulted in Mortgages Plc 
deleting Mrs S number from their system. This then led to them sending a letter to Mrs S on 
9 March 2021 warning of legal action because the arrears were still increasing - which Mrs S 
wasnt happy about. Mrs S also told us that her doctor told her not to talk to Mortgages Plc 
as it was affecting her health. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, there is no dispute here that Mrs S mortgage is in 
arrears and she has struggled to maintain her mortgage payments. I appreciate this would 
have been and still is a very stressful situation for her to deal with, but Mortgages Plc are 
entitled to contact Mrs S to try and agree a way forward.  Assistance can be provided but it 
will depend on each customers individual situation. 
Mrs S has asked that the arrears on the mortgage are capitalised. Capitalisation means 
adding the arrears to the main mortgage balance. This means that they become part of the 
overall debt from then on, which would mean Mortgages Plc wouldnt require them to be 
made up as missed payments. The balance does increase and so the monthly payments will also increase because of this. Mortgages Plc have said that they are unable to capitalise the 
arrears on the mortgage as Mrs S hasnt maintained the last 12 months contractual monthly 
payments.
I think having looked at Mrs S individual circumstances Im not sure it would be in her best 
interests to have the arrears added to the mortgage. She has struggled to maintain her 
monthly payments as they are and capitalising the arrears would increase the interest over 
the remaining term of the mortgage. Mrs S should engage with Mortgages Plc to see what 
other support can be put in place  such as an alternative arrangement to repay the arrears 
which may not impact her as much. I can see that Mortgages Plc have tried to engage with 
Mrs S to see what support they are able to offer her  - but until they are able to resume 
contact with her, its unclear what can be done at this moment in time. 
Having looked at the arrears fees that Mrs S has been charged, I dont think these have 
been charged unfairly.  Mortgages Plc on occasion have charged Mrs S £50 which is their 
standard arrears fee  and Mrs S wants these refunded. 
These arrears charges are not just for the letters that Mortgages Plc send out. There is a lot 
of additional work that is involved when a mortgage account is in arrears, and Mortgages Plc 
is entitled to charge this fee. The terms and conditions confirm that arrears charges will be 
applied to the account for the management of an account when it is in arrears. Looking at 
Mrs S account history, there have been months where no mortgage payment has been 
made so I cant say that these have been added unfairly. I therefore wont be asking 
Mortgages Plc to refund these. 
Harassment and bullying by Mortgages Plc
Its reasonable for lenders to contact borrowers when they are in arrears. I dont agree that 
Mortgages Plcs contact has been excessive or abusive. Ive seen some of the letters they 
have sent Mrs S about the arrears. None of these have been abusive or threatening. 
Mortgages Plc have asked Mrs S about the arrears and another letter explained that a debt 
adviser would visit her to discuss her situation  as Mortgages Plc were unable to get in 
contact with her. 
I appreciate receiving these letters and receiving telephone calls from Mortgages Plc is 
distressing for Mrs S, and that she may find this to be abusive and threatening  but this isnt 
their intention. And as Ive said, I havent seen anything that amounts to threatening or 
abusive behaviour. Mortgages Plc have been trying to communicate with Mrs S to agree a 
way forward to get the mortgage back on track. 
Mortgages Plc are doing what is expected of them, they are notifying Mrs S of the arrears on 
the mortgage and seeking contact with her to come to an arrangement. I dont think any of it 
is meant in a threatening, abusive or harassing way. 
Incorrect address and method of communication
I understand that Mrs S would like Mortgages Plc to communicate with her by email  and 
not by letter. While I agree this would be helpful, Mortgages Plc have decided to work in this 
way, and I cant ask Mortgages Plc to change their process. Its not something that the 
Financial Ombudsman would interfere with. I acknowledge that there have been issues surrounding the address that Mortgages Plc 
have on file for Mrs S. And from what she has said, there is someone else with the same 
name and similar address which is causing concern as her mail is not always being 
delivered to the right address. 
I have seen a letter from Mortgages Plc whereby they have amended Mrs S address in the 
format she asked for  so that she could ensure she was receiving her mail. But I have noted 
that Mortgages Plc have said they had to revert to match the address on the land registry as 
the amendment they made was affecting what is in use by the credit reference agencies. I 
cant say that Mortgages Plc are incorrect in using the address from the original mortgage 
offer or the address held at land registry. I think if Mrs S is having issues receiving with her 
mail, she should take this up with the postal service to ensure that she does receive these. 
Im satisfied that Mortgages Plc have done all they can in relation to this. 
Moving forward
Mrs S told us that her doctor told her not to talk to Mortgages Plc. I do appreciate that Mrs S 
has numerous health conditions and the situation she finds herself in is very difficult for her. 
But Mortgages Plc need to understand her current financial situation to try and help her find 
a way forward. 
I can see that the investigator has referred Mrs S to various debt charities that may be able 
to help her and note that Mrs S said they are unable to assist her as she doesnt have any 
income to make arrangements. 
Mrs S should engage with Mortgages Plc so that they can understand the position she is 
now in and to see what if anything, they can help her with. The more arrears that build up on 
the mortgage could mean that Mortgages Plc have no other option but to take possession of 
the property  but this should always be a last resort.
By speaking to Mortgages Plc, it will enable them to see what other options are available to 
Mrs S. But if Mrs S refuses to do this, it will make it very difficult for Mortgages Plc to do 
anything else. They are entitled to try and get the mortgage back on track but without 
engagement and co-operation from Mrs S  they wont be able to do this. 
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but I cant say that Mortgages 
Plc have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman