DRN-3905572
The complaint
Mr D complains that Coventry Building Society automatically reinvested his matured funds 
from his fixed term cash ISA into another fixed term cash ISA. Hes also unhappy that his 
funds were not reinvested into an easy access account after he raised this issue. 
What happened
Mr D had a three-year fixed rate and term cash ISA with Coventry Building Society (CBS) 
which matured on 31 May 2022.
In advance of this, on 3 May 2022, CBS wrote to Mr D and outlined his options for 
reinvestment or withdrawal of his funds once they matured. The letter explained that if CBS 
didnt hear from Mr D it would automatically reinvest his funds into another three-year fixed 
term ISA. It noted Mr D would then have until 21 June 2022 to change his mind and 
withdraw the funds should he wish.
There was no contact from Mr D to CBS prior to the maturity date and so his funds were 
reinvested on 31 May 2022. 
At the beginning of June 2022, Mr D logged into to his online services, realised what had 
happened and complained. Mr D didnt think it was right CBS had tied up his money and felt 
his funds should have remained accessible.
Mr D then spoke with CBS about the complaint. CBS and Mr D disagreed about what 
happened next.
CBS stated that its representative spoke with Mr D at the beginning of June 2022 and 
explained the money could still be withdrawn without penalty. It outlined the two easy access 
cash ISAs it offered and the fact that the one with the higher interest rate was only available 
online so Mr D would have to set this up himself. According to CBS, Mr D agreed he would 
open the ISA online and transfer his funds by the 21 June 2022. However, Mr D didnt open 
his easy access ISA online until 24 July 2022. 
Mr D said he had substantial difficulties accessing his online account due to technical issues 
with CBSs systems following an upgrade. He said hed tried to contact CBS on multiple 
occasions but was on hold for lengthy periods and frequently gave up. That being said, 
Mr D says that he did manage to speak with CBS and it told him it would open an easy 
access ISA for him and reinvest his funds. However, it then failed to do this.
On 20 August 2022, Mr D complained to CBS because his funds remained in the fixed ISA. 
CBS didnt uphold his complaint and Mr D then brought his concerns to our Service. 
Our Investigator reviewed the evidence and was of the opinion CBS had acted reasonably. 
In particular, our Investigator wasnt persuaded CBS had agreed to move Mr Ds funds for 
him as there was no record of this call.
Mr D disagreed and felt there was too much reliance on CBSs version of events. He said 
CBSs systems were not foolproof and just because it couldnt find a call recording, this 
didnt mean it didnt happen. He shared screenshots of the online error messages hed seen 
and explained he was unable to log on to see his account so didnt realise the money hadnt 
been moved.
Mr Ds complaint has now been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the maturity of Mr Ds ISA, CBS needed to take some action with his funds.
Having reviewed the letter CBS sent to Mr D at the beginning of May 2022, Im satisfied CBS 
clearly communicated with Mr D in advance of the maturity date by writing to him, at the 
correct address, and outlining his options including what would happen if he took no action. 
I think this letter shows CBS gave Mr D sufficient opportunity to make an informed choice, 
take an alternative course of action and change his mind. 
Given CBS didnt hear from Mr D following this letter, I think it was reasonable for it to 
automatically reinvest the funds in the way that it did. I appreciate Mr D felt it was 
unreasonable for CBS to tie up his funds once again. However, all CBS did was treat his 
funds in the same way hed originally requested  investing them into another fixed ISA for 
the same duration of time. CBS also clearly informed Mr D it would do this and gave him a 
cooling off period. In the absence of an alternative instruction and keeping in mind inaction 
was not an option, I dont think this was unreasonable. Id also note that this was not the first 
time CBS had automatically reinvested Mr Ds funds  the ISA that matured in May 2022 had 
been automatically set up when funds from an earlier three-year fixed term ISA matured.
Ive then considered Mr Ds concerns about the setting up of the easy access ISA. 
Having listened to the call between Mr D and CBS on 9 June 2022, I think CBS made clear 
the funds needed to be transferred out of the fixed term ISA before 21 June 2022. Mr D was 
clearly interested in the higher interest rate easy access ISA and told CBS he would open 
the account online and transfer the funds himself. 
However, Mr D said that there was a call where CBS agreed to set up the ISA for him - a call 
CBS says it has no record of. Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide 
what I think is most likely, given the evidence I do have.
Mr Ds account is that he called CBS on multiple occasions; that he was on hold for lengthy 
periods of time and gave up with calls; and that on one occasion he was told CBS would 
transfer the funds. However, I havent been provided with any evidence to support Mr Ds 
account that he spoke with CBS at all before 24 July 2022. I agree with Mr D that no 
businesss systems are foolproof. However, if the calls had taken place, on balance, I would 
expect some record (for example, call notes or phone logs if not recordings) to be available 
from either Mr D or CBS. In the absence of this, taking everything into account, the evidence 
doesnt indicate these calls took place.
Mr D has provided screenshots of errors hes experienced with his online banking. 
Whilst none are dated within the relevant time period, they demonstrate that Mr D has had 
significant issues accessing his online services. Mr D has told us the systems issues were 
CBSs fault due to a system upgrade. Mr D feels that CBS are therefore responsible for the 
fact his funds werent transferred before the June 2022 deadline. But Im not persuaded this is the case. Ultimately, following the conversation with CBS in early May 2022, Mr D knew it 
was his responsibility to set up a new ISA and make the transfer before the deadline. Yet the 
evidence doesnt indicate that he took any further action to try to ensure this happened until 
a month after the deadline. So, in these circumstances, regardless of any online banking 
issues, I dont think CBS can be held responsible for the fact the transfer didnt take place in 
time. 
For all of these reasons, I dont think CBS acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman