DRN-4203615
The complaint
Mr K complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks.
What happened
Between 2016 and 2019 Everyday Loans approved five loans for Mr K. However, the dispute 
about the first four loans has been resolved, so this decision will only be considering loan 
five.
Loan five was given in May 2019 for £5,000 and was scheduled to be repaid at 
approximately £277 per month over a term of 36 months. It would seem that the loan was 
intended to be used to buy a car. Everyday Loans says that Mr K settled the loan early.
When assessing the applications, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Mr Ks financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
The investigator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have given Mr K this loan, and 
provided clear reasons as to why. Everyday Loans said it didnt accept that view, but hasnt 
said why or what it disagreed with. So the case has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint broadly for the same reasons as those of 
the investigator.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr K would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Mr K about his income and expenditure (I&E); reviewed copies of 
bank statements; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan application. Like 
the investigator, Im satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr K, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for him, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The investigator thought that, once the repayments for this loan had been taken into 
account, Mr K simply didnt have enough income to meet his financial commitments and 
would in fact be left with a monthly deficit of some £53.
As mentioned, Everyday Loans has not explained what it disagrees with in that view. I 
have looked carefully at the evidence and the I&E completed by Everyday Loans does not 
entirely add up. Whether Mr K would have been left with a monthly deficit of exactly £53 or 
not I cannot say for sure, but it isnt important in this instance.
Mr Ks income was noted as being approximately £1,630. Rent costs were listed as £300 
per month; estimated living expenses as £522; and creditor repayments as £587. What 
Everyday Loans included in the creditor repayments figure is not clear. However, the I&E 
document goes on to identify that Mr K was consolidating debt to the value of £844, which 
was the amount outstanding on his fourth loan with Everyday Loans. However, we have 
been told that the purpose of loan five was for a car purchase, not for debt consolidation. 
Additionally, it would appear that Everyday Loans paid the entire £5,000 loan over to Mr K, 
rather than retaining the £844 as I would expect were that amount to be used in settlement 
of loan four. So I dont think repayments on loan four can be excluded from a consideration 
of Mr Ks monthly debt burden.
Considering all the evidence Everyday Loans had available to it, including the repayment 
for loan four, I think it would have been reasonable to estimate that Mr Ks creditor 
repayments were around £500 per month. When you add that to his rent and living costs, 
that leaves him with a disposable income of around about £300, give or take. So adding a 
further repayment of £277 for loan five to his burden could not have been identified as 
affordable or sustainable for him.
It therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the 
basis that Everyday Loans assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr K.
Putting things right
It appears that Mr K has settled this loan. In order to put things right for him, Everyday Loans 
must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal on the loan. 
B) If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr 
K.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman