DRN-1904888
Complaint 
Mr U complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as MR LENDER lent to him irresponsibly. 
Background 
Between April 2013 and October 2013, Mr U borrowed four loans from Mr Lender. The 
lending history is set out below: 
Loan 
No: Date takenLoan term 
(months) closed date Principalhighest 
repayment 
amount
1 18/04/2013 1 24/05/2013 200 £235.00
2 06/06/2013 1 27/06/2013 450 £585.00
3 09/10/2013 1 25/10/2013 300 £390.00
4 26/10/2013 1 26/01/2015 700 £910.00
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2 to 4. In his 
response to the parties, he said he thought that there had been three rollovers in respect of 
loan 1. Mr Lender disagreed with what our adjudicator said. It stressed that it had rolled over 
Mr Us repayments outside what was initially agreed only once. 
As the parties do not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive looked at what all of this means for Mr Us complaint. Neither party disagreed with what 
our adjudicator said in respect of loan 1. So, I havent considered further whether Mr Lender 
was irresponsible to agree to this loan. I have taken account of what it said with regard to the 
rollovers, but whether loan 1 was rolled over was not material to my decision about loans 2 
to 4. 
I can see that in its response to our adjudicator, Mr Lender argued that the break between 
loans 2 and 3 was sufficient to constituted a new chain of borrowing. I do not consider a 
break of just over three months between the repayment of loan 2 and the start of loan 3 to 
constitute a new chain. I have treated all of the loans as one borrowing chain. 
Turning to loan 2, I can see that when Mr U applied for this borrowing, Mr Lender undertook 
a straightforward credit check. This showed that Mr U had some unsecured borrowing and 
that he hadnt been insolvent in the three years preceding the loan. It also asked Mr U about 
his income, which he declared to be £1,500 per month. 
The highest repayment for loan 2 was £585, which is around 39% of Mr Us income. At that 
stage, I think it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to check Mr Us expenditure to 
see whether the loan repayments were sustainably affordable. This is particularly the case 
given that the credit check showed Mr U had some unsecured borrowing. Had that check been undertaken, I think Mr Lender would have seen that Mr U could not 
sustainably afford this loan. He was in a debt management plan. I have seen the expenditure 
figures provided to that debt management provider and it is absolutely clear that when the 
repayment for loan 2 was accounted for, Mr Us expenditure would have significantly 
exceeded his income. A proportionate check of his expenditure as well as his income would 
have shown he could not afford this loan. 
The picture was similar for loan 3. Mr Lender undertook the same credit check and enquiries 
about Mr Us income. This time, the highest repayment was £390, which constituted just 
over a quarter of his declared earnings. I think Mr Lender should have asked more questions 
about Mr Us expenditure and had it done so, it would have appreciated his financial 
difficulties. It would have also seen that the addition of the loan repayment would have taken 
his expenditure significantly over his income and so the repayments were not sustainably 
affordable. 
Loan 4 was for £700 and taken out the day after Mr U repaid loan 3. This time, the 
repayment was £910, which amounts to around 60% of Mr Us income. Based upon those 
factors alone, I think it should have been clear to Mr Lender that Mr U could not sustainably 
repay this loan. 
With all of this in mind, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Lender should not have agreed to 
lend Mr U loans 2 to 4. It will now need to take action to put things right.
Putting things right 
To put things right for Mr U, Mr Lender must: 
refund all interest and charges Mr U paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 to 4 from Mr Us credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision 
I partly uphold this complaint and require PDL Finance Limited trading as MR LENDER to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman