DRN-3484817
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) declined his claim for loss under his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D explained the circumstances of his claim as follows:
He bought a new phone and insurance while on holiday.
He arranged for the phone to be delivered to his home address.
The phone was a gift for his partner.
On return from holiday late evening, he went straight to meet his partner for 
drinks/dinner, asking her to bring the package along.
Mr D and his partner argued, and she threw the package towards the river without 
knowing that the new phone was inside.
Neither of them looked for the phone because Mr D said the relationship was more 
important than doing so.
The following day, Mr D claimed under his policy.
After taking some time to investigate the claim, WDP declined it because, we do not believe 
the incident you described took place.
WDP cancelled the policy in line with its permitted actions for fraudulent claims.
Mr D was unhappy with WDPs decision and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think WDP had declined his claim and cancelled the policy fairly for 
the reason it gave. While WDP made it clear it didnt believe Mr Ds account of events, she 
didnt think it had told him it declined his claim under the fraud condition. Our investigator 
also thought WDP hadnt handled the claim as well as it shouldve done, with delays and 
failure to contact Mr D on occasions. She recommended that WDP should pay Mr D £100 
compensation and remove any fraud markers from Mr Ds records.
WDP didnt agree. It said telling Mr D his claim was declined because it didnt believe what 
hed said was a clear decline under the fraud condition. It also didnt think it was reasonable 
to pay compensation for a claim it considered fraudulent. After both parties provided further 
information, our investigator repeated her recommendations. 
WDP still didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
The main issue is that Mr D doesnt think WDP declined his claim fairly under the policy 
terms and conditions. WDP said it declined his claim under the fraud condition because it 
didnt believe his account of the incident. 
My role here is to look at whether WDP declined Mr Ds claim fairly and in line with the 
policy, for the reasons it gave.
If a policyholder lies about some of the events leading to a claim that wouldnt really make a 
difference to the outcome  such as altering the facts for a claim that would be valid even 
without doing so  I wouldnt consider that to be a fraudulent claim. Thats because the 
policyholder isnt trying to get more than they wouldve done if theyd simply given a true 
account of events for a valid claim.
Here, WDP didnt believe Mr Ds account of events for the following reasons:
It doubted that he couldve got from the airport to the meeting point in the time he 
stated.
WDP thought it unlikely that Mr D wouldve asked his partner to bring the phone with 
her just so he could gift it to her over drinks/dinner.
It thought his account of events was inconsistent because he said they met for 
dinner, but the restaurant stopped serving food before Mr D arrived.
In response, Mr D provided evidence of train travel on the line from the airport to the meeting 
place, and a drinks receipt for the evening, albeit at an earlier time indicating his partner was 
there before he arrived.
Having considered the evidence, I can understand why WDP questioned the account of 
events. It appears that Mr D went straight from the plane to the restaurant very quickly, 
especially given the pandemic-related travel restrictions in place at the time. But I dont think 
WDP has shown that Mr D lied about how he lost the phone. His account of the actual loss - 
that his partner threw the package during a heated argument and he chose to save the 
relationship rather than look for the phone - sounds plausible. And however implausible the 
travel to the meeting place seems to WDP, I cant reasonably say that means Mr D lied 
about how he lost the phone.
WDP told Mr D that it didnt believe the incident he described took place and it applied the 
fraud condition. That meant it declined his claim and cancelled the policy. Although I havent 
seen that WDP told Mr D directly that it considered his claim fraudulent, Im satisfied that it 
did offer him the chance to provide evidence to support his story, which he did.
The situation here is that Mr D gave a reasonable explanation of how he lost his phone. If 
the nature of the loss was covered under the policy, his account of the events leading up to 
the loss wouldnt necessarily have affected the validity of his claim. That is, it wouldnt have 
mattered how Mr D got to the meeting place, or how late it was, because the phone was still 
lost in the way he described. So, Ive looked at the policy to see whether its likely Mr Ds 
claim wouldve been successful irrespective of the way he got to the meeting place.
In summary, while the account of events leading up to the loss may be subject to some 
doubt  that is, how and when Mr D got to the meeting place - I dont think WDP has 
provided anything to support its view that he didnt lose the phone.
So, for the reasons Ive given here, I dont think it was fair that WDP cancelled Mr Ds policy 
and declined his claim in line with the fraud condition.With that said, I dont plan to ask WDP to settle Mr Ds claim. Thats because it first needs 
the opportunity to reconsider it under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
However, I think its fair to ask WDP to remove any record of the claim being declined under 
the fraud condition. Thats because it would have a lasting effect on Mr D when buying 
insurance, yet WDP hasnt provided enough evidence to say Mr D submitted a fraudulent 
claim.
Moving on, Mr D was unhappy with the way WDP handled his claim. He said it didnt contact 
him when it shouldve done, and it delayed giving him a decision. WDP apologised for the 
delay assessing his claim and for the failure to contact him on occasion. 
Theres no dispute that the service couldve been better. And having considered the claim 
records, I understand Mr D wouldve been frustrated by this. Our investigator recommended 
compensation of £100, but WDP didnt think it was warranted. 
I understand WDP didnt think it was appropriate to pay compensation for a claim it declined 
under the fraud exclusion. However, as Ive said, I dont think the evidence supports WDPs 
view that the claim was fraudulent. And, having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that 
compensation at the amount proposed is warranted. I can see that Mr D experienced 
distress and inconvenience when WDP told him it didnt believe his story, yet he was able to 
provide evidence which supported many aspects of it. I also note that the records show 
WDP didnt contact Mr D every time it shouldve done.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I think its fair for WDP to reassess Mr Ds claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. To be clear, Im not asking WDP to settle the claim as 
it needs the opportunity to consider the claim again without relying on the fraud condition. 
WDP should also remove any fraud markers against Mr D relating directly to this claim, and 
pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Mr D confirmed he doesnt want the policy reinstated because the phone is no longer 
available to him.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and WDP 
Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ds claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
remove any fraud markers directly related to this claim, and
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman