DRN-3021999
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way that Covea Insurance plc handled his claim for loss of rent in 
respect of his flat following a claim under the commercial policy for the block.
What happened
In June 2018, due to a leak from the roof Mr Fs tenants left his let flat. Mr F made a claim to 
Covea under the block policy for loss of rent. Covea appointed loss adjusters (D) who 
arranged payments for loss of rent until February 2019. However the payments were put on 
hold while D awaited details from the management company about the damage to the roof 
and the necessary repairs. In particular a structural engineer was appointed by the 
management company. But I understand the information was provided to D by October 
2018. Mr F made a complaint he wasnt being paid the ongoing loss of rent. Covea arranged 
with D for the loss of rent to be paid in December 2019 up until March 2020. 
Mr F then complained there was a further delay and that he had trouble in getting through to 
D. He was disappointed with Coveas response that it had no access to Ds claims file. It 
said it agreed that it had responsibility for any default on the part of the loss adjusters and 
said all it could do was escalate the process to Ds managing director. Mr F felt that Covea 
hadnt learned its lesson from the first delay. Mr F also complained of calculation errors and 
of being asked for his bank details when he had already provided them.
In September 2020 D responded to Mr Fs complaint, agreeing there had been delays in him 
receiving payment, a lack of communication and errors made in the calculations. They 
offered Mr F £250 compensation, which I understand he declined, pending this services 
decision.
On referral to this service our investigator agreed that Covea had been responsible for the 
poor service provided by D. However he said that Covea had dealt with it appropriately in the 
compensation offered by D.
Mr F didnt agree and said in particular that he had made a complaint about Coveas failure 
to manage or supervise its outsourced claim handling under principle SYSC 8.1 in the FCA 
(Financial Conduct Authority) handbook. He required us to make a direction that Covea 
hadnt complied with that principle, and awaited our direction on that before he could 
consider the compensation offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should set out here the function of this service. We act as an alternative dispute resolution 
service. Our function is to resolve individual complaints informally. Where appropriate we 
award compensation or require businesses to take action. In exercising that function, I will 
take account of the law, and all relevant rules and regulations. But I wont make specific 
findings of breaches of principles in the FCA handbook. I observe in passing that SYSC 8.1 
has 13 parts to it. Our role is not to punish or fine businesses. If Mr F has any concerns 
about Coveas compliance with FCA rules he should refer those directly to the FCA.
Mr Fs complaints relate to the way that D dealt with this claim, particularly concerning their 
delays in processing payments for loss of rent and their failure to respond to emails and calls 
from Mr F. He was also concerned about their errors in calculating payments which had to 
be pointed out by Mr F. In trying to sort the matter out Mr F got in touch with Coveas 
customer relations team. He was frustrated that the team told him they didnt have access to 
the claims file, and could only escalate matters to Ds managing director. However if an 
insurer has chosen to delegate its claims handling to an outside company it is still 
responsible for it and for dealing with complaints about it. But if it has chosen not to do any 
in-house claims handling that is a matter for it.
In this case I agree that Mr F did suffer delays and a lack of communication which must have 
been very frustrating for him. I think it was reasonable to suspend the loss of rent payments 
from February 2019 whilst the loss adjusters awaited further details of the roof repairs. But 
when they got those details it was remiss of them to further delay payments. I note that Mr F 
did eventually get paid for the loss of rent he was owed, at least up to September 2020 when 
he was given a final response to his complaint and an offer of compensation. I think the offer 
of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr F in trying to get his loss of rent.
If Mr F wants to accept the offer of compensation he should get in touch with D directly. I 
should emphasise to Covea that in making this decision I have taken into account the offer 
of compensation which was made by D.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman