DRN-2864019
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Equifax Limited gave her address to a debt collector.
What happened
In 2020, a debt collector contacted Mrs P about an old account, and told her they got her 
address from Equifax.
Mrs P complained. She explained she was worried that if Equifax gave out her details to 
anyone, they might give it to someone she used to know who was abusive. She also argued 
that the account the debt collector contacted her about wasnt one she was responsible for 
paying. She asked Equifax to erase her credit file data.
Equifax initially explained they couldnt find her file based on the information shed given 
them. They then explained they were a credit reference agency, who had a legitimate reason 
to hold and process Mrs Ps data  and that it was important they held such data for the 
workings of the financial system. So they said they wouldnt delete her credit file data.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained Equifax were entitled to hold onto Mrs Ps credit file data for other financial 
businesses, and they didnt have to delete it. They were also entitled to give her address to 
the debt collector. They explained Equifax didnt give out data to just anyone, and the debt 
collector were a proper business whod got the data through official channels.
Mrs P didnt agree. She reiterated the debt wasnt hers. And she said she never got 
Equifaxs responses to her complaint. The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
First, I will say that I completely understand where Mrs P is coming from. I appreciate that 
because of the truly tough time she went through in the past, shes particularly vigilant about 
her data, and is worried about it being potentially misused.
I hope I can reassure Mrs P that Equifax did not misuse her data by giving her address to 
the debt collector. Indeed, as a credit reference agency, thats one of their proper functions  
if a financial business is having trouble getting in touch with a customer or is worried they 
dont have adequate contact details, they can ask for data from credit reference agencies to 
help them. Its quite normal.
Credit reference agencies are an important part of the financial system, and so Equifax have 
a legitimate reason to be holding onto Mrs Ps data. So I think its reasonable that they 
havent deleted it.
I hope I can also reassure Mrs P that Equifax are not there to give out personal details to 
anyone, as shes said shes worried about. They share these details with regulated 
businesses, and for appropriate purposes  in this case, chasing a debt. An unverified 
individual could not simply call up Equifax and get Mrs Ps sensitive data in the way shes 
suggested. And thats not what happened here  Equifax only gave her address to a 
properly regulated debt collector.
I understand that Mrs P disputes the debt, arguing its not her responsibility, its too old, and 
shed been through an insolvency process in any case. And I do understand why she made 
these points. But Im afraid thats a dispute shed need to have with the debt collector or the 
current owner of the debt, rather than Equifax. Equifax are just the credit reference agency 
here, theyre not a court or a dispute resolution service and it wasnt really for them to decide 
whether the collector should be chasing Mrs P or not. Ill send Mrs P some details for how 
she might be able to complain about the debt collector directly.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs P doesnt recall receiving Equifaxs responses to her complaint. 
It may well be that they went to her spam folder or otherwise got misplaced. But I can see 
that Equifax did send her the responses.
Overall, I have not found that Equifax did anything substantially wrong in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Equifax Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman