DRN-3476191
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way his former motor insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited 
(Tesco), recorded an accident his named driver was involved in. He said having this on his 
record, despite not claiming on his policy, affected his ability to take out a new policy and 
also impacted his premium.
All references to Tesco include its agents. 
What happened
The named driver on Mr Bs policy was involved in an accident where another driver 
reversed onto her/Mr Bs vehicle. Mr B said that, as a result of the accident, his vehicles 
number plate was cracked and that he decided to pay for it to be repaired himself. Mr B 
reported the incident to Tesco who was his insurer at the time. 
Mr B said that when his Tesco policy came to an end, he found it difficult to find a new policy 
because he had a fault claim recorded against him. He also said one insurer added £100 to 
what his premium would have been because of this.
Mr B complained to Tesco and said the accident should not have been recorded against his 
policy because he didnt make a claim. Tesco rejected the complaint and said that the 
incident had to be logged on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database (which 
is a shared record of insurance claims and incidents) regardless of whether a claim was 
made. It added that this is something that is in the documentation it provided Mr B when he 
took his insurance out. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Tescos response and brought the complaint to us asking for the 
claim to be removed from his record. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint for the 
same reasons as Tesco and added that the complaint had been logged as non-fault and 
not as a fault one. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Before I issued my decision, I went back to Tesco and asked about a £20 fee recorded in the 
CUE entry. I asked if Mr B had been charged this fee and if so, whether it was by Tesco or 
by Mr Bs broker. I also said that I thought the complaint should have been recorded as 
notification only rather than as a non-fault claim because Mr B didnt claim under his 
policy. 
Tesco responded to say that the £20 fee hadnt been charged to Mr B and that it related to 
Tescos own costs. It also said that the incident had, in fact, been recorded as notification 
only and that it had previously said it was recorded as non-fault in error. It also provided a 
screenshot of the CUE entry.
I asked our investigator to go back to Mr B and explain the above and to add that I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint in light of the fact that the claim had be recorded as 
notification only which I thought was correct. 
Mr B responded to say that he didnt think the screenshot was correct as it shows the £20 
fee (which he referred to as the claim amount). He said the £20 fee led other insurers to 
treat this as a fault claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. 
As I explained above, CUE is a database where insurers put information about claims and 
other incidents involving their policyholders or third parties who claim against their 
policyholders. Some of the main reasons for the existence of CUE is to prevent 
misrepresentation and fraud. Insurers who do use it have a duty to record accurate 
information. 
Mr B rightly reported the accident to Tesco. This is something he is required to do under his 
policy. Tesco said the policy documents it sent Mr B when he took out the policy stated it 
would record information about incidents with databases like CUE. The policy terms also 
said an incident must be reported, whether it was likely to give rise to a claim or not. I think 
this is common insurance industry practice, so I dont think Tesco has done anything wrong 
here.
 
Mr B said this shouldnt have been recorded as a fault claim or at all as he didnt make a 
claim on his policy. Tesco now says that this was recorded as a notification only claim and 
that Mr Bs no claims discount (NCD) was also allowed. It has provided us with a copy of the 
CUE entry which, from what I have seen, confirms this. 
I appreciate Mr B doesnt think the incident should have been recorded at all, but as I said 
above, Tesco has a duty to record accurate information on CUE. If it hadnt recorded the 
claim at all, in my view, it wouldnt have complied with this duty. Furthermore, in instances 
where a claim is reported but the insurer doesnt have to deal with it and where a third party 
claim isnt received, like what happened here, we think its fair and reasonable for such 
incidents to be recorded as notification only. For that reason, I think Tesco acted fairly and 
reasonably in this regard.
The CUE record also shows that a £20 payment was made. Mr B said he believes this is 
why other insurers consider that his claim was a fault claim. In this case Tesco has said 
that the £20 was for an internal fee it incurred as result of looking into this potential claim. As 
I said above, insurers who use CUE have a duty to accurately record information on the 
database. So, I think it acted fairly and reasonably in recording this payment on CUE. From 
what I have seen, Tesco recorded this as its own cost, as opposed to a third party or other 
payment, which I also think is reasonable in the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr B believes that the £20 payment is why other insurers consider this to be a 
fault claim. As I said above, this was recorded as a notification only claim and not a fault 
claim. In any event, how other insurers interpret whats on CUE is outside Tescos control 
and for that reason Im not directing it to do anything in relation to this. If Mr B is unhappy 
with how his new insurer, or other insurers he was interested in insuring his car with, 
assessed his application for insurance, he is free to complain to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman