DRN-2789872
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc have misplaced £4,000 which she attempted to 
transfer to a friend, but which never reached the intended destination.
What happened
Miss H transferred £4,000 to a friend using Clydesdales online banking app. The attempted 
transfer didnt complete and bounced back into Miss Hs account. However, it was later 
debited again by Clydesdale, leaving Miss Hs account £4,000 down, but without the money 
ever reaching the intended destination.
Miss H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. Clydesdale looked at Miss Hs 
complaint, but they noted that while Miss H was correct that the attempted transfer had 
bounced back into her account, they couldnt find any evidence that the amount had 
subsequently left Miss Hs account again, and so they didnt uphold this aspect of Miss Hs 
complaint. 
However, Clydesdale did acknowledge that Miss H had received incorrect information when 
shed contacted Clydesdale regarding where the £4,000 was and how long it would take to 
be returned to her account. Clydesdale apologised to Miss H about this and offered £100 as 
compensation for any inconvenience or distress Miss H may have incurred as a result.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, and she still felt that the £4,000 wasnt 
accounted for. So, she referred he complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that Miss Hs bank 
statements demonstrated that the £4,000 hadnt been taken from her account a second time. 
So, they also didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss Hs concerns here. £4,000 is a significant amount of money, and its 
only right that she should seek confirmation of whether this money has been debited twice, if 
she believes that this is the case.
However, having reviewed all the information available to me, Im satisfied that it isnt the 
case that the £4,000 that Miss H refers to was taken from her account twice, but rather that 
the money left her account, and was returned to it, on the same day. 
I say this based on Miss Hs account statements, which clearly show that on 13 July 2020 
the amount of £4,000 both left her account, and was returned to it. There may be an element 
of confusion about the sequencing of these events as they show on Miss Hs statement, and 
this is because the statements list all credits received on a day before they show monies that 
left the account. Because of this, the £4,000 shows on the statement as being received 
before it left the account. However, its clear that on 13 July 2020, there are two transactions 
involving £4,000  one leaving the account, and one being received into the account  which 
is precisely as would be expected here.
In addition, having looked further ahead on the statements until the end of August 2020, 
there are no other instances of the £4,000 leaving Miss Hs account, and so Im satisfied that 
Miss Hs account isnt £4,000 down as she believes.
Miss H has provided screenshots from Clydesdales mobile banking app which appear to 
demonstrate that the £4,000 was taken from her account at 11:25 a.m. and returned to it 
immediately at the same time. A further screenshot then appears to demonstrate that the 
£4,000 was subsequently taken from Miss Hs account for a second time, a few minutes later 
at 11:34.
I can appreciate how Miss H might believe that this demonstrates that the £4,000 did leave 
her account twice. However, it must be noted that the timestamps here arent from the 
Clydesdale mobile banking app, but rather are from Miss Hs phone directly (as confirmed by 
the mobile signal and battery amount displays that are also present). 
As such, Im not convinced that these screenshots do indicate two separate debits from Miss 
Hs account, but rather that it may be the case that its the same debit viewed twice at 
different times. And this would seem to tie in with the information on Miss Hs bank 
statements which, as mentioned above, clearly demonstrate that the £4,000 only left her 
account once.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Clydesdale Bank have not misplaced £4,000 of 
Miss Hs money, but rather that the attempted transfer left and was returned to Miss Hs 
account on the same day  and wasnt debited again  leaving Miss Hs account in the 
financial position that it should have been in.
Finally, during our investigators review, Miss H stated that she was certain that there was 
money missing from her account and that her complaint had never just been about the 
£4,000. As such, Ive reviewed Miss Hs initial complaint to this service, and I can confirm 
that Miss H did raise a complaint that was specific to the £4,000 transfer and that she didnt 
complain about the overall balance of her account in a general sense. 
Because of this, Im only able to consider Miss Hs complaint as it relates to the £4,000 
transfer. Which, as explained above, Im satisfied was returned to her account correctly.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Clydesdale have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from that that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Clydesdale to take any further action. Its my understanding that the £100 offer of 
compensation that Clydesdale made to Miss H regarding the issue of being given incorrect 
information remains open for Miss H to accept, should she wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman