DRN-4342118
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the way in which AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled a claim made under 
her travel insurance policy (the policy).
All reference to AWP includes its medical assistance team. 
What happened
Whilst abroad in 2021  on an extended trip - Ms T suffered a head injury. She contacted 
AWP and it agreed to cover some medical costs. 
In June 2021, AWP said that treatment Ms T now wanted covered didnt amount to 
emergency medical treatment. It offered to arrange for her to be repatriated back to the UK. 
Ms T raised several queries in response, which (despite chasing) she didnt receive a 
substantive reply until September 2021, when AWP notified her that her case had been 
closed in June 2021 as she had refused repatriation. 
Ms T denied refusing repatriation. Shes unhappy with the overall service received from 
AWP and that her claim was closed in June 2021. Ms T has incurred further medical costs 
since then and ended up arranging her own repatriation back to the UK in October 2021. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld Ms Ts complaint. He 
ultimately recommended AWP to:
- reimburse Ms T for the additional costs shed incurred in connection with her 
repatriation to the UK in October 2021.
- settle Ms Ts claim for the unused portion of her ski pass.
- pay Ms T £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
However, he didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to cover the medical costs 
incurred by Ms T since the end of June 2021, as he felt AWP had fairly concluded that they 
didnt relate to emergency medical treatment. 
Ms T accepted our investigators recommendations. AWP didnt respond. So, this complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance 
claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
AWPs decision to stop providing medical assistance
Section A of the terms and conditions of the policy reflects that cover is provided for normal 
and necessary receipted expenses of emergency or surgical treatment incurred outside your 
home country.
Looking at the treatment Ms T was seeking cover for as of June 2021, Im satisfied that AWP 
has fairly concluded that this didnt amount to emergency medical or surgical treatment. So, 
Im satisfied AWPs decision to stop paying the medical expenses Ms T wanted covered was 
fair and reasonable.
Particularly, as it offered to arrange and cover the costs of Ms T being repatriated back to 
the UK so that she could continue treatment she needed there. If she agreed to this course 
of action, AWP told Ms T that its medical team would evaluate her case for repatriation and if 
it was deemed that she required extra assistance, it would follow any advice. I dont think 
this was unfair in principle. The policy terms say AWP reserved the right to repatriate the 
policyholder to their home country when, in the opinion of the medical emergency assistance 
service, theyre fit to travel. And Ive not seen any medical evidence from the time that Ms T 
wasnt fit to fly due to the head injury shed suffered earlier in the year.
Although Ms T says she incurred significant medical expenses after June 2021, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold AWP responsible for these costs (over and 
above the medical costs AWP has approved and agreed to cover). 
As explained above, Im persuaded that AWP fairly concluded that the medical costs Ms T 
wanted it to continue covering didnt relate to emergency medical treatment. Further, in its 
email dated 21 June 2021, Im satisfied that APW did clearly notify Ms T of its position. It 
said: effective immediately your insurance company will no longer cover any further 
medical expenses or provide further assistance in case you do not wish to be repatriated to 
the UK. 
I can understand why Ms T sought clarity but from that moment, Im satisfied she was aware 
that AWP wouldnt continue to cover her medical costs if she didnt agree to be repatriated 
back to the UK. And I dont think AWPs position was unreasonable. 
Repatriation costs
However, I dont think AWP fairly concluded that Ms T refused its offer of repatriation in 
June 2021. She expressly says: I dont have enough information to make the decision to 
repatriate and in a separate email of the same date: I need to take some time to think 
about the decision. 
She also raises several queries. For example, she asks AWP to provide the specific details 
of its decision, the medical recommendations made by AWP and why it considers her 
condition to be chronic. She also asks whether if she self-funds her medical treatment for a 
time to help improve her symptoms, whether AWP would still fund her return home later. 
Im satisfied Ms T didnt get a substantive reply to her queries and I can see she chased 
AWP for a response. She didnt receive a reply until September 2021 explaining that her file 
had been closed and cover had ended for this particular claim on 21 June 2021.
So, Ms T ended up arranging her own repatriation in October 2021.
 
AWP had agreed to cover her repatriation costs if shed returned to the UK in June 2021. I 
think the reason why that wasnt explored further at the time was because AWP wrongly 
determined that Ms T had declined its offer of repatriation and closed her claim.Theres no way of now knowing what Ms Ts repatriation costs would have been had she 
returned to the UK in June 2021. There are many variables, and she may have required 
further assistance at the time, which wouldve cost more. 
So, overall, I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to cover the costs associated with Ms Ts 
repatriation in October 2021, including the medical costs incurred to obtain a fit to fly 
certificate in October 2021, transport costs to, and accommodation costs near, the airport 
and flights home.  Ms T says these costs are approximately £1,676. 
The overall service provided by AWP
Im satisfied that AWPs service should have been better when providing assistance and 
handling Ms Ts claim. 
From its contact notes and emails Ive been provided; Im satisfied there were times AWP 
didnt get back to Ms T as promptly as it reasonably should have. And as mentioned above, 
it didnt substantially respond to Ms Ts queries about repatriation to allow her to make an 
informed decision about whether to agree to returning to the UK in June 2021. 
I dont think AWP should have closed her claim when it did without first dealing with Ms Ts 
queries (which I think were reasonable). And I accept that Ms T wouldve been upset to find 
out that this had been the case. And she was inconvenienced by having to chase for 
responses. There was also a period of two months when Ms T didnt know whether the 
policy was still valid, and I accept this wouldve been worrying. 
Ive seen medical evidence from after Ms T returned to the UK supporting that it was likely 
the head injury she sustained abroad was underdiagnosed and undertreated. And rather 
than being referred to hospital she was sent home with self-care instructions. The medical 
evidence reflects that she would have lacked capacity to deal with her insurance at the time.
AWP isnt responsible for the medical advice Ms T received by the treating doctor whilst 
abroad and her not being referred to hospital. And although AWP wouldnt have known that 
Ms T had been underdiagnosed and undertreated at the time (if this was the case), Ms T 
remained unwell and was receiving some treatment. 
So, although this would have already been a worrying time for her, Im persuaded that the 
errors made by AWP would have unnecessarily exacerbated an already difficult for her. Ms 
T was vulnerable, and I think its reasonable to assume that the impact of those errors is 
likely to have had a greater impact on her because of her health at the time. 
Im satisfied £600 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms T over 
several months.
Cost of the ski pass
Ms Ts schedule of insurance reflects that she had paid for optional winter sports cover  an 
additional extra.
Section I says that AWP will pay for the proportionate value of any ski pass necessarily 
unused due to your accident or sickness. 
Ms T has provided evidence from the resort she had the ski pass with reflecting the cost of 
the ski pass, the date it was last used, confirmation that no refund was due or been issued 
and that the resort is unable to extend the pass to future years. So, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, and because Ms T ended up 
arranging her own repatriation back to the UK, earlier than originally planned, in October 
2021 due to her ill-health, I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to pay to Ms T the 
proportionate value of her ski pass for the time she was unable to use it. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies AWP that 
Ms T accepts my final decision or Ms T provides AWP with documentary evidence of the 
costs she incurred and paid in connection with her repatriation back to the UK in October 
2021 (whichever is later), I direct AWP to pay to Ms T:
A. the repatriation costs incurred by her (she says around £1,676).
B. an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on 
which she made payment of each of those repatriation costs to the date on which 
those expenses are settled by AWP. 
C. compensation for distress and inconvenience in the sum of £600.
D. the value of the unused portion of her ski pass.
If AWP considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid in respect of B above, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Ms T can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman