DRN-2063017
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading 
as BMW Financial Services (BMWFS), supplied through a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Miss G entered a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in December 2018, for the supply 
of a car. The car was just under 3 years old and had covered 19,647 miles. The cash price 
of the car was £21,490 and Miss G paid a £4,000 deposit. Miss G agreed to pay £260.77 a 
month over 3 years, followed by an optional payment of £11,767.23. 
Miss G took delivery of the car in January 2019, within 4 weeks she reported to the dealer 
that the brakes were very squeaky. She returned the car to the dealer three times within the 
next seven months to try to resolve the noisy brakes. The dealer cleaned the brakes twice, 
and replaced the brake pads, but the noise persisted. Unhappy the issue couldnt be 
resolved Miss G complained to BMWFS in September 2019, she wanted to reject the car.
BMWFS said the car is a high-performance vehicle so the brakes are manufactured 
especially for heavy braking. It acknowledged this means there may be some brake noise 
but considered this was functional and a characteristic of the car and not a fault. BMWFS 
wouldnt allow Miss G to reject the car, it offered to refund her two monthly payments for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Miss G remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at the evidence, including information about the work done on the car 
and videos of the brakes squeaking provided by Miss G. She didnt think the noise made 
should be reasonably expected in a luxury car of that age. And she found it unlikely this was 
a characteristic of the car - in light of the steps taken by the dealer to try to resolve the 
noise. 
The investigator thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. She 
recommended BMWFS end the finance agreement and return Miss Gs deposit. She also 
said BMWFS should refund 10% of all monthly payments made from March 2019 and pay 
Miss G £250 compensation for inconvenience. BMWFS disagreed, it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs hire purchase agreement with BMWFS is a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
so this service can consider complaints relating to it. Under a hire purchase agreement, 
BMWFS is the supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its 
quality.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says there is an implied term in any contract to 
supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, appearance, finish, safety, and durability. Satisfactory 
is taken to be what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant 
circumstances include  but arent limited to  the age, price and mileage of the car. 
The car here was just under three years old and had travelled less than 20,000 miles at the 
point of supply. It is a high-performance car costing £21,490. Miss G did not buy a new car, 
so I dont think it is reasonable to expect the car to be completely fault free, however this is a 
premium brand car and I would expect it to meet a higher standard than might reasonably be 
expected of less expensive vehicles. 
Looking at the evidence from the parties involved, there appears to be no dispute that there 
is a squeaking/squealing noise coming from the brakes. Miss G says she noticed this when 
she took delivery of the car and I can see she reported this to the dealer within a month; So, 
Im satisfied the noise was present at supply and is not a result of anything Miss G has done. 
Miss G does not think the noise is acceptable in a luxury car, she has told us how frustrating 
and distracting she finds the sound, as the noise is made routinely on application of the 
brakes.  
BMWFS argues the noise is not a fault, but rather a characteristic of the high-performance 
braking system of this particular model. The manufacturer explains the performance braking 
system is specifically designed with ventilated compound brake discs, to provide superior 
stopping power for the sports model. It describes the brake noise as inherent and a 
characteristic of the high-performance braking system. It says the operational noise has no 
effect on performance or the safety of the brakes. 
As the parties agree the brakes make a squealing/squeaking noise, the key question here is 
whether the noise Miss G has told us about, means the car she was supplied was not of 
satisfactory quality. The presence of noise isnt, on its own evidence of a fault. Clearly cars 
do make noise and vibrations and its not unreasonable to expect some noise whilst a car is 
being driven. Here a squeaking noise is made when the brakes are applied. In considering 
whether a car is of satisfactory quality, I need to consider whether the noise experienced by 
the consumer goes beyond the standard a reasonable person would expect.  
Miss G has provided videos of the car whilst travelling, a loud squeaking noise can clearly be 
heard when the brakes are applied. Miss G has told us the brakes make the sound routinely. 
From looking at the relevant literature and online description of the car, I have not seen 
anything to indicate the car is only suitable for the track and not normal road conditions. And 
I dont think most people would expect brakes to make this sound, during the normal course 
of driving. And I can see why Miss G would have found this noise to be frustrating, 
particularly driving in traffic where frequent stops and starts are required. 
From the footage I think the noise here goes beyond the standard a reasonable person 
would expect, given the volume and frequency it occurs.
BMWFS says the noise is normal and characteristic for this sport model; even if I was to 
accept this, I think most people would expect brakes to function without significant noise, 
most of the time, even in a performance car. So I would expect this unusual noise to be 
pointed out to Miss G pre-sale. Miss G has told us the noise was not discussed during the sale and it was not until 
September 2019, after the dealer made three attempts to rectify the noise, that she was told 
the noise was normal. Which suggest the dealer was also unaware the noise was 
considered normal for the model. Having reviewed the relevant brochure for this model, I 
didnt see any information about the brake noise. So, I dont see how Miss G could be 
reasonably expected to be aware of the noise before the sale. 
BMWFS says the car is of satisfactory quality as the brakes are fit for purpose and the noise 
does not affect the safety of the car. I agree, there is no evidence the brake noise impacts 
either the safety or operation of the car. But safety and performance are not the only 
considerations when looking at whether a car is of satisfactory quality. I think most people 
would find the noise unacceptable in an average car of this age, never mind in a luxury 
brand car, costing over £21,000. So, Im satisfied the sound made by Miss Gs brakes 
means the car is not of satisfactory quality. 
It is important to note that my findings are based specifically on Miss Gs complaint about her 
individual car, and Im not making a decision in respect of other cars of the same model. As 
the overall severity of the issue may vary across the same model. 
I can see from Miss Gs chronology of events that the dealer cleaned the brakes in March 
2019, the noise returned after a few days and the dealer changed the brake pads in May 
2019. Miss G reported the noise again and the brakes were cleaned again in August 2019. I 
would not expect the manufacturers dealer to undertake the work it did, if the brake noise 
was expected. I know BMWFS says this work was not an attempt to repair the noise, but 
was simply done by the dealer to assist Miss G. However, Im not satisfied this explanation is 
consistent with the nature of the remedial work undertaken by the dealer. 
BMWFS says it would be unfair to allow Miss G to reject the car as the noise does not affect 
the intended purpose of the car, which it considers the car is fulfilling- as Miss G is able to 
drive it. It also says Miss G did not exercise her right to reject the car within 30 days. In 
accordance with the CRA Miss G can ask to reject the car after the 30 days, if the problem 
persists following one repair attempt. Ive already set out above that Im persuaded the 
works undertaken by the dealer were unsuccessful repair attempts. So, Im satisfied Miss G 
is now entitled to reject the car.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BMWFS should allow Miss G to reject the car and it should cancel 
the agreement with nothing further to owe. If any adverse information has been recorded on 
Miss Gs credit file, this should be removed, and her account marked as settled in full, not as 
voluntarily terminated. I think it is fair for BMWFS to return Miss Gs £4,000 deposit. 
Despite the noise issue Miss G has had use of the car, but she has told us how frustrating 
and distracting the noise has been. And I accept she has had an undesirable driving 
experience for a premium brand car. There is no exact science or formula, but to reflect her 
impaired use, I think Miss G should get 10% of each monthly payment made, refunded from 
March 2019 when she first reported the noise. And BMWFS should pay interest on those 
refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. I also think it 
was inconvenient to have to return the car to the dealer to carry out investigations and 
remedial work, in the circumstances I think BMWFS should pay Miss G £250 compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision I uphold the complaint and require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as BMW 
Financial Services (BMWFS) to;
1. take the car back at no cost to Miss G and cancel the hire purchase agreement, with 
nothing further owing (including any additional mileage charges);
2. refund the £4,000 deposit Miss G paid;
3. refund 10% of each monthly payment made from March 2019;
4. pay interest on the refunds above (2) and (3) at 8% simple a year from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement;
5. remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file and mark the 
finance agreement as settled; and
6. pay Miss G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
If BMWFS considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest payment referred to above, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss G a tax deduction certificate, if she requests one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman