DRN-2551190
The complaint
Miss T says Provident Personal Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says that 
Provident approved loans when it was aware that she couldnt afford to make the 
repayments. 
She also complains that Provident acted inappropriately when she fell behind with her 
repayments. She says this made her very anxious. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Provident provided to Miss T between 
January 2016 and July 2016.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 11/01/2016 £200 14 21/03/2016
2 15/03/2016 £300 23 05/07/2016
3 20/07/2016 £400 32 outstanding 
Before the complaint was brought to this Service Provident made an offer of compensation 
in respect of loans 2 and 3. It based this on a refund of interest (plus interest) for these 
loans. It used this amount to reduce the capital balance Miss T owed on loan 3. Once this 
calculation was done Miss T had a modest amount still to pay for loan 3. Provident agreed to 
waive this.  
Miss T didnt accept this offer. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the offer Provident made for loans 2 
and 3 was fair. He didnt think Provident was wrong to approve loan 1 and he didnt have 
enough to say that it had acted incorrectly when Miss T had fallen behind with her 
repayments for loan 3. 
Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that she shouldnt have been lent 
loan 1 and that she felt she was put under significant pressure by the Provident agent when 
she couldnt make the loan repayments. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss T could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Provident has agreed that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been approved. Having looked at 
how it calculated compensation for these loans I think what it has offered to do, that is write 
of the outstanding balance for loan 3, is fair and reasonable and is similar to the 
compensation I would award if I were to uphold the complaint about those loans. 
So, I wont consider if these loans were lent irresponsibly. Im only looking at whether 
Provident should have approved loan 1 in detail. 
For loan 1 Miss T needed to repay £20 a week for 14 weeks. Ive seen a record of the 
information she provided when she completed her loan application. Miss T said she had a 
weekly income of around £450. So even without detailed information about her expenditure, 
Provident wouldve likely thought the loan was affordable. 
As this was the first loan Miss T was taking with Provident, I think it was reasonable, in this 
case, for it to rely on this information given the proportion of the amount being borrowed in 
relation to what she declared as her monthly income. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss T mightve been having at the time. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate her circumstances further. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Provident did for loan 1 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Miss Ts 
complaint about it.
Miss T has said that she felt under duress when she fell behind with the loan repayments. 
Ive no reason to doubt what she says about how difficult things were for her at this time of 
life. I hope this has improved for her. 
But in order to uphold her complaint I would need to see that Provident was acting 
incorrectly when it contacted her about the repayments. But I havent seen enough for me to 
say that this was the case here. And I have to bear in mind that it is entitled to request 
repayment of the loan amounts. So, Im not upholding this part of Miss Ts complaint. 
Putting things right
If Miss T accepts my decision then Provident should implement the offer it has made in 
respect of loans 2 and 3 and confirm that any outstanding amounts for loan 3 have been 
written off. 
My final decision For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman