DRN-1214989
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Ms W took out 9 instalment loans with Sunny between April 2015 and May 2016. Ms W says 
she was borrowing to repay existing credit and was in financial difficulty and so it was 
irresponsible to give her the loans.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to have 
given Ms W loans 1 to 5. But at the point of loan 6 Ms Ws borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve seen that she was persistently relying on these loans and 
further lending wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that it didnt think Ms 
W was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Ms W was required to use only a 
small amount of her income towards the loans. The business did offer to refund all interest 
and charges incurred on loans 8 and 9.
Ms W didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms W. It asked Ms W for details 
of her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Ms Ws credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Ms W loans 1 to 5 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Ms W hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these 
loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Sunny has already offered to put things right in line with what I would recommend for loans 8 
and 9, so I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 6 and 7.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Ms Ws lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Ms W.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ws case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
When Ms W took out loan 6, shed been borrowing almost continually and wasnt 
making any inroads into the amount that she owed.
Ms W asked for loan 6 less than a week after she had repaid loan 5 and loan 4 
remained outstanding. Ms W was taking multiple overlapping loans and paying them 
off early which would suggest she needed to borrow again to fill the hole in her 
finances. I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that 
Ms W was having problems responsibly managing her money.
 I think that Ms W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Ms W had been 
borrowing from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on her ability to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Ms W in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Ms Ws complaint about loans 6 to 9 inclusive.
Putting things right - what Sunny needs to do
A.  Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.  Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C.  The number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 9 should be removed from Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman