DRN-1887786
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions which she 
says she didnt make.
What happened
Miss G complained about fraudulent activity on her current and savings accounts.
Between 31 October 2019 and 22 November 2019 there were multiple debit card payments 
to retail stores, totalling £15,339.
During the same period, there were also several payments into her savings and current 
accounts. They were:
14 credits, totalling £6,385.00, into her current account. These included 4 payday 
loans, two other loans and 4 credits from unknown persons
3 credits, totalling £1360.00, from unknown persons into her savings account. These 
were followed by a series of transfers from her savings account to her current 
account.
The credits into both accounts and the loans funded some of the disputed payments.
Her loss, excluding the credits, was approximately £7,500.
Barclays blocked her account following an internal review.
Miss G said she couldnt use her mobile banking app, so she called Barclays to report the 
fault. A few days later she found out about the transactions. She told Barclays that she didnt 
make the disputed payments and she hadnt applied for the loans. And she said she didnt 
know anything about the other credits into her account or where they came from.
Miss G raised a fraud complaint with Barclays. She told Barclays that her debit card was 
always in her possession. She said she lives with her parents, partner and young son. She 
kept her card in her bedroom, when it wasnt on her. At work, she kept her card with her or 
locked in a safe. She has one colleague only who also has access to the safe but he 
wouldn't have taken her card.
She confirmed that she hadnt disclosed her PIN to anyone else and she hadnt written it 
down or stored it anywhere.
She believed that her debit card had been cloned, possibly at one of the ATMs outside a 
supermarket. She asked Barclays to refund the £7,500 and cancel the loans.
Barclays investigated her claim and decided not to refund her. It said the disputed payments 
were made with her genuine debit card and PIN. It knew this because the chip inside the 
card was read by the payment terminals and her PIN was entered correctly each time. This 
indicated that the person already knew the PIN. Yet, on her own admission, the card was always in her possession and no-one else knew the PIN. It also noted that there were 
genuine transactions between the disputed ones, which confirmed she still had her card. 
The card wasnt used again after Barclays had cancelled it on 22 November 2019. Barclays 
said this indicated that whoever was using the card knew it had been cancelled and couldnt 
be used.
Barclays also explained that it's not possible to clone a cards chip because of the complex 
nature of how the chip works.
In relation to the loans, Barclays advised Miss G that she needed to contact the lenders if 
she wanted to cancel the loans.
Miss G wasnt happy with Barclays decision, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude that the disputed payments were made fraudulently, and she thought, on 
balance, it was more likely that Miss G had authorised them. 
Miss G disagreed with the investigators view. She said Barclays hadnt done a thorough 
investigation. She said it should have applied for the CCTV footage from the retail stores and 
investigated the loan applications. Her father also told us that when the disputed payments 
were made, Miss G was either at work or on her way to and from her sons school.
She asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote two views. The first view sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss G and Barclays have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure Miss G that Ive read the file, including her comments and 
evidence.
Im afraid I dont have good news for Miss G. My review of the evidence has led me to the 
same overall conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
In short, Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Miss G says she didnt make the disputed payments and she is asking for a refund of 
her loss. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether I think Miss G 
authorised the payments.
Ive seen Barclays technical reports. Im satisfied her genuine card and PIN were used in 
order for the disputed payments to take place. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss G consented to 
the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Miss G 
consented to and authorised the payments. Ill explain why.
Card and PIN
Miss G admitted that her debit card was always in her possession and that no-one else had 
access to it. She also confirmed that she didnt keep a written note of the PIN, she hadnt 
stored it anywhere and she didnt disclose it to anyone else
Her statements show that she used the card for genuine transactions in between the 
disputed ones. So clearly, she still had her card. This makes it very unlikely that an unknown 
person had taken it.
Miss G believes that her card was cloned, and this explains why someone else was making 
payments from her account while she still had her card. However, as Barclays and the 
investigator explained, its not possible to clone the chip and certainly not easily or quickly or 
outside laboratory conditions. This service hasnt seen any cases where a chip has been 
cloned. 
So, I dont think its likely Miss Gs card was cloned. Im afraid I cant see any opportunity for 
an unknown third party to get hold of her card and PIN. So, if she didnt make the disputed 
payments, then someone close to her must have taken the card from her and returned it. 
However, this is not what Miss G says happened and she has repeatedly said she didnt 
share her PIN with anyone.
Besides, there is other evidence which links her to the disputed activity on her account, not 
just the card payments.
Mobile banking logins
Ive seen a copy of Barclays audit report for mobile banking. It shows that there were 
multiple logins during the period of disputed activity and sometimes several in a day. The 
transfers from the savings account into the current account were made via Miss Gs mobile 
banking app and from a device which has been registered to the app since 7 October 2019. 
The same device was also used to make multiple logins and genuine payments both before 
and after the disputed payments. The device is linked to Miss Gs mobile number.
Most of the logins to the mobile banking app were made by touch ID.
Im afraid this indicates that only the owner of the device couldve logged in. As this was 
Miss Gs account, and she hasnt mentioned registering another persons phone, then I can 
only assume that she was the owner of the device.
Miss G said she didnt know about the disputed payments until December 2019 when the 
blocks on her account were removed. However, Barclays said she wouldve seen the 
transactions when she logged in to mobile and online banking to make genuine payments. 
For example, on 14 November 2019 she made two online payments for £500 and £350. As 
this was a new payee, she had to set up a new mandate.
I understand Miss G said the transactions were hidden somehow. Barclays said the blocks 
on the account wouldnt have prevented her from seeing the transactions when she logged 
in.Ive also taken into account the following evidence:
there were no incorrect PIN attempts and no balance enquiries this suggests that 
the person already knew the PIN and the balance in the account
there were no attempts to use an ATM and the disputed activity was conducted over 
a month  its more common for a fraudster to use a card quickly and to exhaust the 
balance by making cash withdrawals and spending on luxury goods
there were no further chip and pin transactions after the card had been cancelled  
this suggests the person using the card knew it had been cancelled
three credits were made at an ASD. The person depositing the cash would have 
needed Miss Gs account details to do this.
Its possible that CCTV might have identified that someone other than Miss G made the 
disputed payments. But Miss G didnt have to make them personally in order to be liable for 
them under the relevant rules. She can still be held responsible for them if she allowed 
someone else to use her card. 
I've noted that the disputed payments were out of character for Miss Gs current account. 
The credits into her account were unusual and they do look suspicious. Ive considered that 
someone close to her - who had access to her card and mobile banking - was responsible 
for the transactions on her account. Or that she was caught up in a scam without fully 
realising what was going on. I see from the banks notes that she tried applying for a loan 
because she said shed been scammed out of £5,000. However, Miss G is adamant that no-
one else had her card or knew her PIN. She hasnt told us whether someone elses device 
was registered to her mobile banking app. And she says she knows nothing about the 
credits into her account, despite the fact the payer or payers had her account details. 
Unfortunately, I can only take into account what she has told us. And, on her own admission, 
she is the only person who couldve made the disputed payments.
Ultimately, I must balance all the evidence and reach a decision which is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Im afraid I think the evidence which links Miss G with the disputed 
activity outweighs her testimony that she knew nothing about the payments and that her card 
was cloned.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Barclays to refuse a refund of the disputed 
payments on the basis they were authorised by Miss G.
the loans
Ive not considered the loans because Miss G needs to raise a complaint directly with the 
lenders, not with Barclays. Its not appropriate, therefore, for me to consider that complaint 
here.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss G, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear. I understand that Miss G is in financial difficulties and I appreciate this has been a 
stressful and anxious time for her. I expect Barclays to offer help with her financial situation 
and to treat her positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Razia KarimOmbudsman