DRN-1516033
The complaint
This is a complaint that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. Capital One sold Mrs M 
the policy at the same time that she applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs M and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
There is a section on the postal application form you tick if you want PPI  and I can 
see this has been ticked on the form that Mrs M sent in to apply for the card. So I 
think Capital One made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ms 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Capital One explained the PPI. Theres a reference 
on the form to a separate leaflet, but I cant be sure that was actually easily available 
or understandable for Mrs M. But I dont think full information about costs and 
benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. I say this 
because it looks as though she didnt have good employer benefits to fall back on or 
savings, if she lost her income through sickness or unemployment. And it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman