DRN-3183416
The complaint
Mr J has complained about how MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) handled a payment 
deferral that was applied to his account.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo to acquire a 
used car. The cash price of the car was around £7,685. The total amount payable was 
around £9,952. There was one monthly payment of around £311 starting one month after 
execution of the finance agreement, followed by 58 monthly payments of around £161 per 
month, followed by one final monthly payment of around £311.
In June 2020, Mr J contacted MotoNovo and they agreed to provide him with assistance 
because he was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
MotoNovo agreed to provide Mr J with a payment deferral from 1 July 2020. On 19 June 
2020, when MotoNovo confirmed the payment deferral, they said that it wouldnt affect his 
credit rating. Towards the end of August 2020, Mr J contacted MotoNovo and he confirmed 
that he was able to resume his monthly payments and he requested to spread the 
outstanding arrears from the payment deferral over the remainder of the finance agreement. 
Based on this option Mr Js monthly payments increased to around £181 a month.
In November 2020, Mr J contacted MotoNovo because he noticed a late payment marker on 
his credit file for his September 2020 payment. MotoNovo confirmed this was a mistake and 
said they would remove it. And then again in December, Mr J contacted MotoNovo because 
his credit file was showing a negative marker for his November 2020 payment. MotoNovo 
again agreed to amend this. In January 2021, Mr J contacted MotoNovo because this time 
his credit file was showing missed payments for November and December 2020. 
MotoNovo said that in January 2021, they updated the credit reference agencies and they 
also put measures in place to prevent the incorrect reporting from happening again. They 
also apologised and said they would arrange to pay Mr J £75 compensation.  
Mr J was unhappy with this. He was also unhappy that one of the credit reference agencies 
had decreased his credit score after a Special Arrangement was recorded on his credit 
report by MotoNovo. So, he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that MotoNovo 
should pay Mr J a total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But he also 
thought that MotoNovo was reporting correct information on Mr Js credit file as Mr J did 
have an arrangement to pay in place.
MotoNovo agreed with the investigator, but Mr J disagreed. In summary, he told us that he 
didnt expect more money, but he said that he wanted his credit score on his credit file not to 
be negatively affected.   
As Mr J didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
In March 2022, I called MotoNovo and, in summary, I said that I didnt think it was fair in this 
particular case for MotoNovo to be reporting an arrangement to pay on Mr Js credit file. I 
explained that I thought that the guidance on how consumers should be treated if they have 
been affected by Covid-19 pandemic, including the guidance published for firms by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stipulated that that firms should not be reporting an 
arrangement if this causes a worsening status on a credit file. This is especially the case 
where a mechanism to repay deferred amounts is agreed at the end of a payment deferral 
period, and the customer can resume at least the level of contractual payments. So, I asked 
if MotoNovo were happy to stop reporting the arrangement to pay on Mr Js credit file and 
pay the further £75 for a total of £150 compensation. 
In May 2022, MotoNovo replied to our service, and they said that they agree to pay the 
additional £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But they didnt agree to remove 
the arrangement to pay. They said that this was because Mr J requested a payment deferral, 
so this should be reported correctly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. The rules and guidance mentioned 
below refer to customers and consumers, and I will be using these words interchangeably, 
but in this decision the words are to have the same meaning.  
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr J acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
MotoNovo have told us that all adverse information surrounding the missed payments were 
requested by them to be removed from Mr Js credit file. So, the only issue remaining for me 
to consider is the impact MotoNovos error had on Mr J, and then whether its fair for 
MotoNovo to report to credit reference agencies that he had an arrangement to pay.
Ive taken into consideration everything Mr J told us about the impact of MotoNovos mistake 
had on him. When considering the fair amount of compensation, Ive also kept in mind that 
MotoNovo agreed to remove the adverse information surrounding the missed payment, but if 
they have not done so, they should do so as soon as possible, and from all the credit 
reference agencies they report the information to. Mr J had to contact MotoNovo on a few 
different occasions as mistakes kept reoccurring. So, considering everything, I think 
MotoNovos errors have caused Mr J distress and inconvenience when he was trying to sort 
this out. And I think that MotoNovo should pay Mr J a total of £150 to fairly reflect the impact 
their errors had on him. I understand that they have already paid £75, so I think now they 
should pay a further £75.  
The other issue Mr J has is that MotoNovo has been reporting that he had an arrangement 
to pay, which he said impacted his credit score in a negative way. MotoNovo said that they 
believe that the information being reported to the credit reference agencies is accurate as Mr 
J had requested a payment deferral, so this should be reported correctly.  Im aware that MotoNovo have a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit 
reference agencies. There is no question that Mr J had a payment arrangement on his 
account, but Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to 
report this information to the credit reference agencies, considering the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering the above, among other things, Ive taken into account the guidance 
published by the FCA. On 24 April 2020 the FCA published the guidance  Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced 
temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it 
builds on Principle 6: (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly). The guidance states the following: Where a customer is already experiencing 
or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of 
circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020. This update was published a 
short period after Mr J first contacted MotoNovo, but I think it is relevant to this case, as it 
builds on the previous guidance. Also, the FCA in September 2020 released further 
guidance called Consumer credit and Coronavirus: Additional Guidance for Firms. I 
believe this guidance is also relevant because under section 4 CRA Reporting the 
guidance says that this specific section sets out FCAs expectations of firms for Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA) reporting when dealing with customers who:  have been granted 
a payment deferral under the July guidance;. So first I should mention that Im satisfied that 
all of the above FCA guidance applies to Mr J, as he was provided with a payment deferral 
under this guidance. With that said, Ive gone on to look at what the guidance said about 
reporting information to the credit reference agencies. 
The FCA guidance says that firms should explain that a worsening status will not be
reported to the customers credit file in respect of any payment deferral taken under this
guidance. Im satisfied that is what MotoNovo had explained to Mr J.  More specifically, they 
let him know that his credit file will not be negatively impacted due to him taking them up on 
their offer of a payment deferral. The guidance also says In accordance with the relevant 
Coronavirus Data Reporting Guidance published by the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
in consultation with SCOR, firms should not report a worsening status on the customers 
credit file during any initial or further payment deferral period. So, Ive thought about 
whether what MotoNovo has been reporting would be considered a worsening status on 
Mr Js credit file.
In October 2021, Mr J has provided our service with a current screenshot showing that his 
credit file has been negatively impacted, whereby his credit score decreased by 159 points. 
This print screen shows that Account status changed to agreed payments.  And from 
another print screen he provided to our service, I can see that under the finance agreement 
Mr J had with MotoNovo it says Special Arrangement. A third print screen shows under 
current status Agreed payments, and higher up on that same print screen it shows A Hire 
purchase account was changed to a negative status on your October report. So, I think 
most likely the way MotoNovo reported the deferral payments as Agreed payments or 
Special Arrangement has impacted his credit file in a negative way. And, I think, as his 
credit score has reduced in this particular case this, most likely, would be considered a 
worsening status on Mr Js credit file. 
Ive also considered what the FCA guidance issued in September 2020 mentions around the 
CRA reporting. And the guidance says that Where a mechanism to repay deferred amounts 
is agreed at the end of a payment deferral period and the customer can resume at least the level of contractual payments we would not expect this to result in the reporting of an 
arrangement to credit files (subject to subsequent payment performance being reported in 
the usual manner). In Mr Js situation, once the three-month deferral period ended, he was 
able to resume his monthly contractual payments, and he agreed to spread the outstanding 
arrears from the payment deferral over the remainder of the finance agreement. Based on 
this he was making increased payments of £181 a month. So, I thought about whether it was 
fair for MotoNovo to report an Agreed payments or a Special Arrangement to the credit 
agencies. 
Overall Im aware that MotoNovo had a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit 
reference agencies, but taking all of the circumstances of this particular complaint, in 
conjunction with the spirit of the above mentioned guidance published by the FCA, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to report Agreed payments or a Special 
Arrangement to Mr Js credit reference agencies. This is because Mr Js credit score has 
been negatively impacted, and as such leading to a worsening status. Furthermore, as he 
was able to resume more than just the level of his contractual payments after the deferral 
period, I think its only fair and reasonable that MotoNovo in this particular case should 
remove the reporting of arrangement to pay from Mr Js credit files.  
Also, Mr J says that he was unable to get credit while the information on his credit file was 
being incorrectly reported. So, Ive considered this, but Ive not seen enough evidence for 
me to conclude that MotoNovos reporting of adverse information on Mr Js credit file was 
most likely the reason for Mr J directly incurring a loss. From the available evidence, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on his credit file was 
why he couldnt obtain credit. So, I cant say that most likely its MotoNovos action that 
directly caused him a financial detriment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
take the following actions:
1. Pay Mr J a total of £150 compensation. I understand that £75 has already been paid 
so a further £75 should be paid;  
2. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the hire 
purchase agreement, including, and during, the period between July 2020 and 
January 2021;
3. Remove the reporting of an arrangement to pay, including Agreed payments or a 
Special Arrangement, from Mr Js credit file in relation to this hire purchase 
agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman