DRN-3979902
The complaint
This complaints about a request that Mr and Mrs L made to National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in 2022 for a new interest rate product on the further advance component of their 
mortgage. It was refused because the account balance is below Natwests minimum 
threshold of £10,000. Theyre unhappy that they werent told about this, either when they 
took out the further advance in 2017, or when they renewed the rate on their main advance 
in 2021.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs L and NatWest. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs L being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the key events, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L took out the further advance in 2017, with advice from NatWest. They 
borrowed just over £10,000, on capital repayment, with a five-year fixed rate deal that would 
expire in 2022. At this point, their main mortgage was already on a separate fixed rate that 
was due to expire in 2021. 
When they renewed the rate on the main mortgage in 2021, NatWest offered them the 
choice of doing so on an advised on non-advised basis. They chose the latter. When they 
came to renew the rate on the further advance in 2022, NatWest told them they couldnt 
because the account balance (as distinct from the aggregate balance of both) was below its 
minimum threshold of £10,000.
Mr and Mrs L think this is unfair; they believe should have been told about this, either in 
2017 or in 2021. Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong; 
Mr and Mrs L asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator; Ill set out my reasons 
for this. 
First of all, the instigation of a minimum balance threshold is a commercial decision for 
NatWest to make as part of its broader lending criteria. Lenders criteria, and changes to 
them, are commercially sensitive and generally kept confidential. Id only expect a lender to 
tell a customer about a particular part of its criteria if and where it is relevant to a transaction 
being carried out.
The further advance was provided in 2017 on an advised basis. However, NatWest couldnt 
advise Mr and Mrs L about the £10,000 threshold or its potential implications for them at that 
time, because it didnt exist at that level in 2017. There was a threshold, but it was at a much 
higher level, so much so that thered have been no reason for NatWest to mention it. It would 
have had no relevance to, or bearing on, the suitability of the further advance at the time.
The £10,000 threshold was in place when the interest rate product was renewed on the main 
mortgage in 2021. If that transaction had taken place on an advised basis, then its 
reasonable to expect NatWest to have mentioned it, so that Mr and Mrs L could decide how 
best to proceed. But Mr and Mrs L elected to apply for the new rate on a non-advised basis. 
Where thats the case, I dont expect a lender to volunteer unsolicited advice.
Mr and Mrs L choose to proceed with the 2021 product switch on a non-advised basis. That 
was their right; I imply no criticism of them, and none should be inferred. But insofar as it 
was their choice, they must accept the consequences of that choice in relation to the later 
impact on their wish to have a new interest rate product on the further advance. Those 
consequences are undoubtedly unwelcome to Mr and Mrs L, but whilst unfortunate theyre 
not unfair, which is the test I have to apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman