DRN-3757907
The complaint
Mr T complains that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) were responsible for the mis-
sale of two bonds. Mr T says he was misled into thinking the investments were safe and he 
believed they had protection under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr T invested £20,000 into a B&G Plc three-year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond 
(BG22570) in April 2017 and £20,000 into a five-year Compounding High-Yield Bond 
(BG22845) in May 2017. Sales of the bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business 
from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investment in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. 
Mr Ts investment in the bonds
Mr T said he was referred to BG Ltd by a family member. Mr T called BG Ltd and spoke to a 
relationship manager who explained the products available and how to apply. Mr T then 
completed an online application in April 2017. Following ongoing discussions with his 
relationship manager, Mr T decided to invest further in May 2017. In a call from the day 
before, Ive heard it was agreed that the application would be made online. Ive also seen 
confirmation that both online applications were received. Mr T made other investments, 
which are not considered within this decision.
At the time of these investments, Mr T was retired and in receipt of his pension. He was 
attracted to investing with BG Ltd because of the high interest rates available. His previous 
investment experience was limited to bank and building society accounts. Mr T also had a 
small shareholding in a privatised utility company and he also held an NS&I pensioner bond. 
Mr T recalled being reassured during calls with BG Ltd that the investments were safe and 
were covered by FSCS. Requests were made for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held. 
The majority of calls provided took place after the investments were made and no recorded 
conversations during the bond application process were provided. This decision therefore 
focuses on the online application process completed by Mr T.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr T has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
On balance, having reviewed the information provided, I think it is more likely than not 
that Mr T completed online applications in April and May 2017. I have seen screen 
prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the application 
journey that Mr T underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules 
restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where 
Mr T was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness 
test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ts complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said Mr T had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investments. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ts 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr T as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr T wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr T to invest. 
For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr T for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: Regardless of label, Mr T was required to confirm that he met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr T giving an 
incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr T made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investments were 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 
10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr T into certifying himself as 
belonging in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr T fairly or 
acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr T, it 
is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. To be clear, even if the May 2017 application 
was not made online (which I find it likely was), theres nothing to show that an 
appropriateness test was carried out that met the requirements of the rules.
Had an appropriateness test been carried out that met the requirements of the 
rules, it would have been apparent the bonds were not appropriate investments for 
Mr T. In the circumstances Mr T would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly 
and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to 
Mr T.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr T would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mr T for his losses.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Mr T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr T in a 
clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield IFISA 
Bond 
(BG22570) Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Five-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield Bond 
(BG22845)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr T agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr T that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the bonds in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr T's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr T would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am upholding the complaint. I direct Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman