DRN-4442542
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refused to open an account for him.
What happened
Mr D applied to open a new current account with HSBC. HSBCs checks highlighted Mr Ds 
previous relationships with them and so asked him to provide more information as to why the 
new account was needed. Mr D felt his reasons for opening the account were irrelevant and 
so declined to provide the information and raised a complaint about HSBCs account 
opening procedures.
HSBC responded explaining that they wouldnt be able to open the account until Mr D gave 
the information. They once again offered Mr D the opportunity to provide it. Mr D was 
unhappy with HSBCs response and so escalated the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
She explained HSBC had a Know Your Customer procedure which they had to follow and 
had asked questions in line with that policy. HSBC gave Mr D a number of opportunities to 
provide the information they needed but Mr D decided not to provide it. Our investigator 
concluded HSBC were acting fairly and reasonably in saying they wouldnt open an account. 
She also confirmed this service couldnt ask HSBC to change their processes but could 
investigate whether Mr D had been treated differently to any other customer in the same 
position as him. She concluded Mr D had been treated no differently.
Mr D remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint and so asked for it to be passed 
to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, Ive decided 
that HSBC havent treated Mr D unfairly and so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further. 
Its clear that Mr D is keen to have this account opened with HSBC, but, just as Mr D is free 
to decide who he banks with, HSBC is entitled to decide who it offers products and services 
to.
Ultimately, what I need to decide is whether HSBC treated Mr D fairly in refusing to open the 
account he wants. The starting point here is that a financial institution has a responsibility to 
understand who theyre dealing with and why. That responsibility comes from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook which says a business should carry out customer due 
diligence checks. 
HSBC got most of the information they needed through Mr Ds application. But, after checks 
were made, HSBC concluded they needed to understand the reason why the account was 
required before they were willing to provide it to Mr D. Having considered what they asked 
for and why  Im satisfied that the question they asked was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr D was unwilling to share the information with HSBC and so HSBC havent been able to 
satisfy their own requirements. So, while Ive considered Mr Ds reasons that he didnt want 
to provide HSBC with this, I dont think theyve acted unfairly in declining to open the account 
here. Im satisfied that in dealing with Mr Ds request to open a new account, HSBC have 
treated him fairly and in the same way as they wouldve any other customer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and Im not asking HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Stephen Farmer
Ombudsman