DRN-3743805
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his car insurer The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) in relation to its action taken when he was involved in a road traffic 
accident in 2017.
What happened
Mr D was involved in a serious accident in 2017 which, due to injuries resulting from the 
incident, his wife reported to NFU. NFU recorded that the accident was likely Mr Ds fault. 
Due to Mr Ds injuries, NFU did not interview him until March 2018 and Mr D was unable to 
remember the incident itself. The police were involved and NFU felt their report would be 
crucial in determining fault for the accident. An independent engineer was instructed to give 
a view on the incident  but his view was that details likely held by the police would be 
needed to be certain as to the likely cause.
The other driver was also insured by NFU. The other driver recalled the accident and placed 
the blame for it on Mr D. The other driver took action against Mr D in respect of the injuries 
he had sustained. 
In late 2019 the police were still unable to share their report of the accident with NFU. But in 
early 2020 NFU became aware that the police were looking to formally caution Mr D for his 
part in the accident. Later, with no caution having been given, Mr D was charged to formally 
appear in court. Mr D told his solicitor on 24 August 2021 that he would accept the advice 
given and plead guilty to the charge of careless driving. 
Mr D complained to NFU. He felt NFU had not been impartial in handling his claim. He felt its 
investigations had been insufficient and it had not done enough to support him during a 
difficult time. Mr D was also unhappy, having tried to make a legal expenses claim for costs 
he had incurred in taking action himself, against the other driver, in respect of his own 
injuries, that his claim had been refused for late notification. He said NFU hadnt told him to 
make a claim regarding this aspect earlier. 
NFU said it had acted impartially. Overall it didnt feel it had done much wrong in handling 
the claim  although it accepted it could have acknowledged correspondence received from 
Mr Ds wife in 2017. It also accepted there had been some delays in handling Mr Ds 
complaint. So it sent a cheque for £150 as compensation. 
Mr D had already complained to us. He told our Investigator that NFU had failed him in its 
handling of things, including in disposing of the key vehicles, which may have evidenced 
how the crash occurred. He said he and his family werent interviewed by the independent 
engineer, or afforded any opportunity to visit the accident site, both as the other driver had 
been. He maintained that his wife had never told NFU he was at fault for the accident.
Our Investigator felt NFU had acted fairly and reasonably in handling the claim. So he didnt 
make any recommendation for it to do anything more.
Mr D said he felt NFU should have appointed a solicitor to act for him  that this had 
happened in other insurance claims he is aware of. He said again that his wife had not told 
NFU he was at fault and that NFU should have made relevant evidence available to the 
judge (hearing the criminal proceedings). Mr D feels the evidence that was made available 
skewed the outcome, leaving him with no choice but to plead guilty. He maintained that the 
other driver had been treated more favourably than him  that NFU had not been impartial.
Mr Ds complaint was passed for am Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been a difficult time for Mr D. And I know how fervently he believes 
that he was not at fault for this accident. So I can also understand the frustration and distress 
that he feels about the outcome of the insurance claim and criminal action. But Im not 
persuaded, having considered everything that happened, and all the details and views Mr D 
has provided, that NFU did anything wrong.
I know Mr D is concerned that because NFU acted for the other driver too, there was a 
conflict of interest. But I dont think that is likely the case. It isnt unusual for drivers, involved 
in an accident, to be insured by the same insurer. And theres no way to prevent that from 
happening. Rather, all insurers can do is be prepared for that eventuality by having 
appropriate claim procedures in place to deal with claims like that. Here NFU has explained 
how it does that  largely that files are kept separately and that the claim investigations are 
run independently of each other. Ive not seen anything here that makes me think one claim 
compromised the other. 
I can see that Mr D would be concerned about the depth of the investigation on the other 
drivers claim, which Mr D found out about later-on. Clearly the independent engineer 
interviewed the other driver again, whilst choosing not to interview Mr D. And the other driver 
had also gone to the crash site. I know Mr D thinks he should have been treated the same. 
But, on this occasion, I can see why he wasnt. Mr D had been unable to recall the accident, 
I know he remembered driving along the road before the accident. And then has some 
vague memories, or flashbacks, from after the incident. But that is not the same as being 
able to detail the accident itself. And it is the detail of the accident that needs to be known to 
help determine which driver was at fault. It was that determination the independent engineer 
was tasked with. Mr D being interviewed again by the engineer, and/or Mr D and/or his 
family (Mr D was driving alone at the time of the incident) being asked to attend the crash 
site, in my view, likely wouldnt have helped establish the cause of the incident. I dont think 
Mr D was treated unfairly here. Nor do I think his treatment signifies that NFU was acting in 
favour of the other driver.Im aware that an insurer wouldnt automatically, in every case, appoint a solicitor to act for 
its policyholder. Each case is taken on its own merits and the policy usually allows the 
insurer, as Mr Ds policy does here, to handle and settle claims in the way it sees fit. On 
occasion that can mean an outcome is reached which the policyholder does not agree with. 
It also bears mention that when an insurer does appoint solicitors in respect of the claim that 
would not usually be to assist the policyholder regarding any criminal charges made against 
them. I know Mr D had legal expenses cover. But if he wanted to use that, it was always up 
to him to notify the provider (which is not NFU) of his claim. I realise that Mr D was too ill in 
the aftermath of the crash to do that, and that his family were, understandably, focused on 
his condition. But I dont think that means that NFU should have acted to advise Mr D, via his 
family if necessary, to be sure to access the legal expenses cover within the mandated 
timeframe for claims. I dont think NFU failed Mr D in this respect. 
NFU did, from the outset record this incident as likely being Mr Ds fault. Mr D feels this 
shows NFUs bias and is certain that the accident was never reported to it in this way. I see 
that Mr Ds wife went into a local NFU branch to report the accident. And that she was 
recorded as having said Mr D likely lost control due to oil or ice on the road. Based on that 
detail I can see why the matter was recorded as having been reported as a fault claim 
against Mr D. I also see that, later on, some clarification was given by Mr Ds wife. She told 
NFU later, and recorded in her 2018 statement, that she had said this because she was 
reporting detail she had been given by a relative of the other driver  it wasnt that this was 
what she knew or believed to have happened. So I can understand Mr D maintaining and 
complaining to NFU that his family had not told it he was responsible for the accident. But 
I can also understand why NFU, at the outset, recorded the incident as likely having been 
caused by Mr D. I dont think NFU did anything wrong in this respect.
I think its important though to note that NFU didnt just ignore Mr Ds wifes later clarification. 
It is clear to me that NFU did seek to further verify what likely happened that day. For 
example, an independent engineer was appointed. But I think it was always going to be 
difficult for NFU to show that Mr D was most likely not at fault. There were no witnesses to, 
or CCTV evidence available of, the accident. And whilst Mr D couldnt recall how the crash 
happened, the other driver did. Furthermore, the independent engineer couldnt conclude 
their enquires without detail which was felt to have been held by the police  but which 
seems to have either not been held by them, or was ultimately never presented. I think NFU 
acted reasonably to investigate this claim. I dont think it failed Mr D. 
I appreciate that Mr D would have liked for his car, and that of the other driver, to have been 
kept and made available for assessment later on. He believes that a forensic assessment, of 
his car in particular, could have helped his defence of the criminal charges. But I cant see 
that NFU was asked to keep the car  it seems to me that the car was disposed of in the 
normal course of the claim. And I think that was reasonable given that it had been assessed 
by two engineers and multiple photos showing the damage to the car had been taken. I dont 
think NFU failed Mr D in this respect. 
Furthermore, NFU was not involved in, or responsible for, progressing the criminal 
proceedings. I can see that it took the police and relevant prosecution service several years 
to progress that side of things. And I can see that Mr Ds solicitor did ask NFU for details 
which it did provide. How those proceedings then progressed, including in respect of what 
evidence was placed before the judge, was not something NFU was privy to or had any 
involvement in or control over. I understand that Mr D feels he was forced to plead guilty 
because of NFUs investigations, and the parts of that which were either disclosed or not 
disclosed to the court. But I dont think NFU can reasonably be held responsible for the 
outcome of the criminal proceeding, including what action Mr D ultimately felt he had to take.I know NFU previously sent Mr D a cheque for £150 compensation. This was because it 
accepted it should have formally acknowledged receipt of correspondence sent by Mr Ds 
wife. And for late response to Mr Ds complaint. Ideally these problems would have been 
avoided. I know Mr D did not cash the cheque. If Mr D should decide that he wants to benefit 
from this payment, he should contact NFU direct and ask it to reissue it. But this doesnt 
impact the main thrust of Mr Ds complaint or my view of it. In summary I think NFU acted 
impartially, fairly and reasonably in handling Mr Ds claim. I dont think it failed him. As such 
Im not upholding this complaint or requiring NFU to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman