DRN-3359956
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited avoided her car insurance policy
and turned down her claim.
What happened
Mrs M held a car insurance policy with Admiral. There were also named drivers on the
policy. One of the named drivers was involved in an accident and Mrs Ms car was deemed a
total loss. Admiral reviewed the claim but turned it down. They said during investigations into
the accident the named driver had said they were the main driver of the car and not Mrs M.
As Mrs M was the policy holder Admiral thought Mrs M hadnt been truthful about who the
main driver was. Because of this Admiral avoided her policy and declined her claim.
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and complained. She said the named driver had been
confused when answering Admirals questions and provided the responses they thought
Admiral would want to hear. Mrs M maintained that it was her car and didnt it was fair for
Admiral to turn down the claim.
Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they believed the named
driver was in fact the main driver of the car. They also pointed out that while the purchase
invoice for the car was in Mrs Ms name, the named drivers car, which they were the policy
holder for and main driver of, had been used in part exchange for Mrs Ms car. Because of
this, they didnt think Mrs M had been truthful about who the main driver was. Mrs M didnt
agree and referred her complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought
Admiral had demonstrated that the named driver was the main driver and didnt think
Admiral had done anything wrong in avoiding the policy and declining the claim. Mrs M didnt
agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 June 2022 where I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she set the policy up as Mrs M was recorded as the main driver when in fact the main driver
was actually one of the named drivers.
Admiral said this policy was brought through an aggregator site, and following this, a motor
proposal form (statement of fact) was sent to Mrs M to check all the details were correct.
Our investigator asked Admiral for a copy of the question Mrs M was asked when she
bought the policy so I can consider whether she was asked a clear question. Admiral havent
provided the question Mrs M was asked. Ive therefore looked at the motor proposal form
and, having done so, I dont agree Admiral have shown Mrs M made a misrepresentation. I
say this because the motor proposal form says under the driver section: Policyholder and
then lists Mrs Ms details. It then goes on to list three more drivers and just has the word
Driver next to each of them.
As the documents sent to Mrs M dont mention who the main driver is, I dont think Admiral
have demonstrated that Mrs M made a misrepresentation in relation to this. Because
Admiral havent shown Mrs M has made a misrepresentation, Im not satisfied they have
acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim and avoiding the policy. Ive therefore
looked at what impact this has had on Mrs M.
Mrs M said because of Admirals decision to decline the claim shes had to pay the finance
on the car without her policy covering this loss. She also said this would impact getting future
insurance. Therefore, to put things right Admiral need to pay Mrs Ms claim, in line with any
remaining terms and conditions under the policy. If this results in Admiral making a payment
to Mrs M, they should add 8% simple interest to this amount, calculated from the date of
claim until the date of payment. If Mrs M has incurred any late fees or additional interest on
the finance due to Admiral not paying her claim, Admiral should also pay the late fees and
interest to Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest to compensate her for not having the
money.
Admiral should also remove any record of the avoidance from internal and external
databases and provide Mrs M a letter to say they incorrectly avoided her policy. This will
allow her to present it to any future insurers should she need too.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested. Mrs M responded 
and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral didnt respond and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. I see no reason to 
depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mrs Ms claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay any late fees and interest incurred on the finance on the car, because of the
claim being declinedRemove any record of the avoidance from all internal and external databases and
provide Mrs M with a letter to explain they avoided her policy incorrectly
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman