DRN-2931388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly rejected a claim 
on their home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs J are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs J, Ill refer mainly to Mrs J from here onward.
Lloyds used a third party company (referred to in my decision as S) to investigate Mrs Js 
claim and most of her correspondence has been with S. While Lloyds is ultimately 
responsible for the actions of its agents, Ive referred to S where relevant to help clarify who 
did what after the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Js house suffered water damage due to a leak in their roof in June 2019, and 
they made a claim under their home insurance.
Lloyds used S to investigate the claim. S engaged a surveyor to inspect Mr and Mrs Js roof. 
The surveyors report said the damage to their roof wasnt caused by a storm. This meant 
the damage wasnt covered by their policy and Lloyds rejected the claim.
Mrs J disagreed and complained to Lloyds. She was also unhappy with Ss response to her 
request for a second inspection. She says S initially refused this, then changed its mind, by 
which time Mr and Mrs J had already engaged builders to repair the damage.
S said that it tried to contact Mr and Mrs J numerous times to arrange the second 
inspection but was unable to contact them. Mrs J doesnt accept this.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that while 
there was bad weather around the time Mr and Mrs Js home suffered damage, this wasnt 
so serious as to be classed as a storm. She was satisfied that Lloyds decision to reject the 
claim was reasonable. She was also satisfied that S tried to contact Mr and Mrs J to arrange 
a second inspection, so didnt recommend that this aspect of the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mrs J disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 June 2021. I said:
Like most polices, Mrs Js cover only makes Lloyds liable for damage caused by certain
insured events. So identifying damage exists isnt enough alone to make Lloyds liable for
repairing it; the damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy
for Lloyds to be liable.
Mrs Js policy sets this out. Section 1.4 (Buildings Insurance) confirms The buildings are
insured against loss or damage caused by storm or flood. Section 14 (General Exceptions)
says theres no cover for damage arising from wear and tear or damage that happens
gradually over time.
So, in this case the key question is: was the damage caused by a storm? S said it wasnt,
based on the surveyors inspection of Mr and Mrs Js home.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Some buildings and contents policies define a storm. Mrs Js policy doesnt but our view is
that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the date of the claim. The data we have for the
closest weather station to Mrs Js home shows high winds on 11 June (43mph gusts,
average 25mph), and heavy rain from 11 to 13 June (maximum 4.8mm hourly, 45mm over
the three days). Ive also looked at other weather websites and information for the
2018/2019 storm season. These dont show any named storm for June 2019.
The winds  while severe  arent what wed consider storm force. And while I can see there
was a lot of rain that week, rainfall rarely causes damage to a well maintained property on its
own. Rain may cause internal damage to the property  in this case, the damage to the
bedroom ceiling and roof  but often this will be because an existing fault allowed water to
get into the roof. Having looked at all the available weather information, I dont think the
adverse weather conditions at the time of Mrs Js claim could be classed as a storm.
Mrs J believes the surveyors inspection was inadequate. For example, Mrs J says the
surveyor didnt get onto the roof and didnt arrive dressed to do so. But Ive looked at the
report and, in my opinion, it seems sufficiently detailed. The surveyor took photos of the roof
using a telescopic camera pole  which I dont think is unreasonable  and inspected the
internal damage to ceiling and walls in the bedroom. His report noted an area of
deterioration present to the mortar joints of the lead step flashing to the chimney, and that
this was the only visible damage. He concluded:
All damage present to the customers property is consistent with an ongoing issues
[sic] with water ingress in general weather conditions, no storm related peril has been
in operation or has the affected bedroom been damaged by a single loss which
would have been covered under AD [accidental damage].
Given the absence of storm conditions, and the surveyors conclusion that the storm was not
the cause of the damage, I dont think Lloyds initial rejection of the claim was unfair.
The matter is complicated by the dispute over a second inspection. S initially refused this.
Again, on the face of it, I dont think this was unreasonable. I know Mrs J was unhappy with
the surveyors approach, but I think its unlikely a second inspection by S would have
produced different findings.
Instead, Mrs J might have arranged for her own expert to inspect the damage and report on
his/her findings. Ss records show that it suggested this during a phone call on 26 June 2019
(advised I will not be sending [surveyor] to re-inspect as the same damage will be observedonly way we can consider the claim further would be submission of own report on damage
for consideration) but Mrs J didnt want to do this.
Alternatively, the builder Mrs J employed to repair the damage might have carried out their
own inspection before beginning work and/or take photos of the damage and repairs. Given
Mrs J was already considering a complaint to this service, I think this would have been
helpful.
However, S isnt blameless here. Its internal notes show that it decided to arrange a second
inspection on 26 June 2019. This was just a day after it had sent Mrs J its final response and
the same day it told Mrs J it would not arrange a second inspection.
We asked S why it changed its mind. It told us: it was our decision to arrange the revisit
following the complaint and further review of file by a team leader this initial decision was
overturned and was felt best to arrange one. Its worth noting that this doesnt match Ss
email to Mrs J on 10 July 2019, which said we have now been requested to arrange a revisit
by your insurers. While this contradiction is concerning, I dont think its a crucial point.
S says it made numerous attempts to contact Mrs J after 26 June to arrange the revisit. Ive
reviewed Ss internal notes. In the two weeks from 26 June, S left three voicemails and texts
on Mrs Js mobile asking her to contact S in regards to your recent insurance claim.
A file note on 6 July 2019 says Mrs J "needs to be contacted via email during the week as
she cannot accept calls". I havent seen any evidence that Mrs J asked to be contacted only
by email before then, but I can see that phone calls and texts before 26 June were rarely
answered. So S might reasonably have been aware that phone calls werent the best way to
contact Mrs J.
Mrs J wanted a second inspection. I can imagine she hoped this would show something
different to the original inspection which would make Lloyds reconsider the claim. S had just
spoken and written to Mrs J rejecting this request, so I think it was Ss responsibility to make
sure Mrs J knew this was no longer the case.
Given Mrs J needed to arrange urgent repairs to a leak in their roof and believed S had
rejected her request for a second inspection, I dont think Ss initial attempts to contact Mrs J
once it had agreed to the second inspection were good enough. I think Mrs J would most
likely have accepted Ss offer if it had contacted her by email or letter to say its final
response was no longer relevant.
S finally emailed Mrs J on 9 July (We are looking to book a revisit and have requested
available dates for our inspector and We have Monday 15th and Tuesday 16th available.
Could you please advise if either of these would be suitable for you?). This was the first
time it told her it agreed to a second inspection. Mrs J replied:
We had a letter saying our Claim was declined and we are currently lodging a
complaint with the Ombudsman in this matter. Could you please clarify why a revisit
has now been proposed, given that we had requested one and this was turned
down?
So Im satisfied that Mrs J was aware S had changed its mind by 10 July. Given S offered
two potential dates for the second inspection, I cant reasonably hold it responsible for Mrs J
not taking this up.
There was another gap in contact between the parties  this time four weeks. Ss records
show it was aware of this lack of action and needed to contact Mrs J urgently. For example,an email from Lloyds on 5 August says, please may we have an urgent update there
appears to have been no activity on your file since 12/07/2019.
S says it spoke to Mr J on 6 August. Mrs J says it didnt. Whether or not this conversation
took place, I dont think S should have tried to arrange this by phone given Mrs Js request
for correspondence to be via email.
Mrs J emailed S on 27 and 29 August, and 3 September. I dont think Ss response was
good enough at this stage either. An internal note on 30 August 2019 said, Please close
your files down if the customer has advised the work has already been completed and
there isn't anything to inspect [my emphasis].
Mrs Js 27 August 2019 email said that they have had to have some of the work already
completed [my emphasis] and asked how to resolve this. Her email two days later asked the
same question. I dont think this can be read as saying the work had been completed or that
there wasnt anything to inspect. Ss internal notes show the file was closed as resolved on 8
September 2019.
I dont think S should have closed its file at that stage. And I dont see any reason why it 
couldnt have instructed its surveyor to carry out a second inspection at that point. In any 
event, I dont think it was appropriate to do so without explaining this to Mrs J.
While I dont think Lloyds rejection of the claim was unfair, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint about Ss handling of their claim. I find that the confusion around the second visit 
was primarily Ss fault. This caused Mr and Mrs J distress at a particularly stressful time 
given they were trying to get the leak in the roof and the water damage inside the house 
repaired. I consider an award of £200 is reasonable to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my findings and agreed to pay Mr and Mrs J £200.
Mrs J accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision and neither has asked me to 
consider any new evidence, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J £200 for the 
distress it caused them by its handling of their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman