DRN-2563729
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc declined its 
application for a new account  which meant it couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr C is Ts director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
T was looking to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme from HSBC in May 
2020. Mr C contacted the bank in early May to begin an application.
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. As T didnt, Mr C submitted an application for a feeder account. This 
type of account is used solely to draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
HSBC declined Ts application. It its email of 5 June confirming the decision, it said this was 
based upon information provided by an external credit reference agency. It invited Mr C to 
appeal if he was unhappy, which he did. HSBC treated that as a complaint but stood by its 
decision  so Mr C referred his concerns to us.
Mr C doesnt think its fair for HSBC have used credit checks in assessing Ts application for 
a feeder account, when the account wont be used for anything other than the provision of a 
Bounce Back Loan  and when applications for the actual loan arent subject to those 
checks.
One of our investigators reviewed Ts complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. In summary, he said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. 
It was reasonable for HSBC to require an account to be opened first, so that it could 
complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme. 
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria, 
and had explained the checks it would make within the account application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Ts application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. And those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. While he agreed that HSBC wasnt obliged to offer 
T a loan, he believed it had  it had accepted the request, so hed not explored options 
elsewhere. And he said that by the time the bank declined the account application, the 
landscape had changed and other lenders werent offering loans to new customers either  
so T was left stranded. Mr C also maintained that HSBCs procedure went against the spirit 
of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme  which didnt require applicants to meet credit score 
requirements. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As T was a new customer, HSBC required it to open a new account  either a business 
current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Thats 
in line with its standard process. And I think it was reasonable, for the reasons explained by 
our investigator. First, there was no obligation on HSBC to offer loans under the Scheme to 
new customers at all, and it had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would do so. 
And second, HSBC has explained that the account-opening process enables it to complete 
the various checks expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, and as 
required by the Scheme rules.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased its criteria when considering applications for an 
account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan Scheme compared with its 
practice previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Ts application against those criteria. 
So I think it treated T fairly. And, as Ive seen from HSBCs internal records that Ts 
application didnt meet those criteria, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in declining to 
offer T an account.
HSBCs criteria include certain credit score requirements. Mr C doesnt think its fair for 
HSBC to have factored credit information into its decision, when this isnt part of the 
application process for the loan itself. I appreciate his points on this. Lenders arent expected 
to decline applications for the Bounce Back Loan itself on the basis of credit-related 
concerns. But the feeder account is a separate product to the loan and is, therefore, 
legitimately subject to different rules and requirements. And while the purpose of the feeder 
account is to facilitate the drawdown of a Bounce Back Loan, as Ive set out above HSBC 
had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would accept applications from new 
customers  so it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it offered them, including 
its credit-scoring requirements.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said in relation to T being left unable to apply elsewhere 
after HSBCs decision. But I dont think HSBCs actions prejudiced Ts position. Other 
lenders were still accepting applications from new customers at the time HSBC confirmed its 
decision to Mr C in early June (although I accept there were few options in this respect from 
the outset). More significantly, I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr C on 20 May  a couple of 
weeks after he lodged the application  with an update. It explained that it had been 
inundated with account applications, so wait times were significantly longer and it couldnt 
give a specific timeframe for completion. It invited Mr C to advise if he wished to continue or 
withdraw his application. This enabled Mr C to make an informed choice as to whether to 
continue to wait or to look elsewhere, in view of the delay he may face.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it handled Ts 
application. So Im not requiring it to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman