DRN-2342624
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the handling of a claim under his home emergency insurance 
policy which is underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
 
Aviva uses agents to deal with claims on their behalf. Any references to Aviva in this 
decision should be read as including anything said and done on their behalf by those claims-
handling agents.
What happened
Mr D had an existing home emergency policy with Aviva. In mid-February 2020, Mr D 
contacted Aviva to make a claim on his policy as there was hot water coming out of his 
property from an overflow pipe and he wasnt able to stop it himself. 
Aviva sent a contractor to look at the leak, but they advised a specialist plumber was 
required. Aviva arranged for the plumber to visit Mr D a few days later and he identified there 
was an issue with a pressure valve, but he didnt have the required part and needed to order 
it. 
On 24 February, Mr D contacted Aviva again as hot water was still leaking from the overflow 
pipe and causing damage to his property. An appointment was booked for the following day 
but when the plumber looked at the boiler, he was unable to resolve the issue and it was 
escalated to the boilers manufacturer who Ill call V.
On 13 March, Avivas plumber fixed the valve on Mr Ds boiler, but this didnt resolve the 
issues. On 16 March, Mr D called Aviva again as the thermostat and value werent working 
properly and the boiler was overheating. This meant that Mr D wasnt able to use the boiler 
and had no heating or hot water. 
This was again passed to V and their engineer fixed some issues but again needed a 
replacement part that wasnt available, it wasnt until mid-April that V were able to fully repair 
Mr Ds boiler restoring the heating and hot water. 
Mr D complained to Aviva as he felt their delays had caused damage to his property. So 
Aviva arranged for their surveyor who Ill call B to look at the damage and provide an 
estimate on any repair costs. 
In mid-May Aviva upheld Mr Ds complaint. They said B had estimated the cost for repairing 
the damage at around £730 so they were happy to offer this as a cash settlement to Mr D. 
They also agreed Mr D had been caused distress and inconvenience from the number of 
engineers visits hed had, and from being without heating and hot water for several days. So 
they offered him £250 compensation. 
Mr D asked Aviva to arrange for the repair work to be carried out by their contractors in case 
of any future issues, and the final cost of repairs was agreed at around £1,500. B then sub-
contracted the work to a company Ill call P who started repairs to Mr Ds property at the 
beginning of June 2020.
On 22 June, there was a relationship breakdown between Mr D and P and all work on 
repairing the property stopped. P told B and Aviva that Mr D was asking them to complete 
repairs that werent included in their contract of work. 
Mr D disagreed with P and B and asked Aviva to independently look into the work that had 
been completed as he felt let down by both P and B. Unfortunately, the case handler at 
Aviva who initially looked at Mr Ds complaint became unwell, so it was several weeks before 
another colleague was able to review the information from P, B and Mr D. 
On 14 July, Aviva wrote to Mr D to confirm that the outstanding work left to be completed 
would cost around £1,067 which they were happy to offer as a cash settlement. They also 
said that as the case had been passed to this service, they would wait for a decision on 
whether or not the compensation theyd offered was fair.  
Mr D didnt think this was reasonable. He said he was unhappy that the person who had 
responded on behalf of Aviva wasnt a manager as promised and hadnt read the documents 
hed sent through in relation to his complaint which had now been ongoing for around five 
months.
He also said he was unhappy Aviva hadnt asked for an independent surveyor to review the 
works that had been completed by P. Mr D felt that the amount of work B said had been 
completed was incorrect by around £120 in Ps favour, and that the work that had been 
completed wasnt of a reasonable standard. He felt that the cash settlement required to 
complete the work himself would be around £1,750.  
Aviva reviewed the information from B and Mr D, and agreed with Mr D that based on the 
information theyd been provided with, the outstanding amount payable for repairs after the 
agreed deductions for the work completed by P would be around £1,165. They arranged for 
this to be transferred to him on 22 July. They also said they would contact B and arrange for 
the rubbish at Mr Ds property to be collected and for the coving that had already been 
purchased to be delivered to him. 
In early August, Aviva wrote to Mr D again. They apologised for the issues Mr D had 
experienced and agreed the increased costs that Mr D had provided. They also increased 
their compensation offer by £300 to a total of £550. Mr D accepted the additional costs and 
asked for this to be paid. However, he didnt agree to the compensation amount as he 
wanted this service to look into whether this was a fair offer for the distress caused and the 
potential impact on his and his wifes existing medical conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She acknowledged that the 
service Mr D had received from Aviva had been below the standard it shouldve been. 
However, she felt that Aviva had paid Mr D all the repair costs that had been agreed and that 
based on what shed seen the amount of compensation theyd offered was fair. 
Mr D didnt agree. He didnt think the investigator had fully considered the distress and 
inconvenience he and his family had been caused over a significant period and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. In particular he referred to the fact that he and his wife 
had existing medical conditions which he felt would be severely impacted by the evidence of 
damp in his home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I think the solution proposed by Aviva to address all the problems Mr D has 
experienced is fair, and Id like to explain why.
Mr D has provided us with a lot of information and evidence to consider. I wont be 
commenting on each point individually, however I have read and considered everything both 
he and Aviva have provided as part of my decision. 
Mr D has now accepted the settlement from Aviva for the cost of the repairs. So what I need 
to look at here is whether the service Mr D actually received was in line with what he should 
have received from Aviva, and whether response from Aviva to the delays he experienced 
throughout the claim process were reasonable. 
Boiler repairs
Mr Ds policy is a home emergency policy, which provides cover in the event of an 
emergency or domestic incident for heating and plumbing. So when Mr D called Aviva to tell 
it he was experiencing issues with hot water leaking from the overflow pipe, Aviva needed to 
look into what was happening and see if the fault was down to something covered by the 
policy. They needed to arrange for the correct person to resolve the issue as quickly as 
possible, and if the fault was covered, then Aviva would be responsible for putting it right.
Mr D told us that he was unhappy with the numerous plumbers and engineers sent to his 
property and feels these repeated visits added to the delays in stopping the water leak from 
the boiler. I recognise that Mr D had numerous visits to his property over the course of trying 
to resolve the issue with the down pipe, and I acknowledge that it was seven days before 
Aviva were able to stop the overflow from his boiler. 
However, its not unusual for more complex issues to take several visits to resolve as often 
its not clear at the outset if the issue relates to a plumbing or heating problem. And as 
engineers can focus on one or the other, I cant say it was unreasonable of Aviva to send the 
specialist that could attend Mr Ds property quickest in the hope that they could resolve the 
issue - particularly as they came the same day Mr D contacted Aviva. 
Looking at the case notes, I can see that the first engineer attended Mr Ds property the 
same day that Mr D contacted Aviva. This engineer noted that a part P plumber was 
required, and it was agreed with Mr D within 48 hours of his initial call that the required 
plumber would attend the following weekend  which I can see that they did as agreed on 
the 22 February. 
Unfortunately, the engineer didnt have the part required to fix the issue - and it was this part 
that wasnt initially clear if it was covered by the policy or not. I can see that Aviva then sent 
a further engineer on 25 February because the leak still hadnt stopped. Although it appears 
there was confusion because of the issue Mr D was experiencing, about whether a gas 
engineer or a plumber was required - so I can see that Aviva sent both. 
When the second engineer arrived on 25 February, he didnt think the fault was covered by 
the policy - which he told Mr D and Aviva. So Mr D contacted Aviva again as he wasnt 
happy with the outcome at that point. It was less than 48 hours after this plumber had 
attended that the final plumber arrived and was able to stop the leak. So whilst I recognise 
Mr Ds comment that it was seven days before the leak was stopped, looking at the timeline 
of events and based on what Ive seen I think this was due to finding the correctly qualified 
person and the correct fault rather than delays caused by Aviva.
Mr D also told us that it was around six weeks for the issues with his boiler to be resolved. 
And during this time he was without heating or hot water for various periods of time and felt this was because of the different engineers, delays in replacement parts and information not 
being transferred clearly between Aviva and the engineers.  He also felt some of the 
engineers whod attended his property had been unhelpful. 
However, Ive looked at the case notes in detail and Im not persuaded the delays were 
caused by the different engineers or that they were being unhelpful. Ive seen evidence that 
one of the engineers who attended the property felt the water overflow was performing 
correctly. He felt that the hot water downpipe issue had been caused because Mr D had 
been unable to locate the programmer for the underfloor heating which meant the water was 
continually heating and causing the overflow. So he said when he discovered the fault was 
due to the underfloor hearting the didnt carry out any work as he felt it wasnt covered. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and Ive seen that under the what isnt covered? 
section it clearly says, under floor heating. So I think it was reasonable for the engineers 
who identified the issue related to the underfloor heating not to replace the parts causing the 
overflow as it wasnt within their authority to do so. Ive also seen that he said he explained 
this to Mr D at the time. 
However, I can see that the other engineer who attended Mr Ds property shortly after 
replaced the megaflow part and stopped the leak. So I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay here  but a difference of professional opinion on what was covered. 
After the leak was stopped around a week later, Ive also seen that Aviva still werent able to 
resolve the issue using their own engineers and had to request a manufacturer engineer to 
attend. As this would have been something outside of their control, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for them to request a specialist or any delays caused whilst waiting for them to 
attend the property. Ive also seen that there were some delays waiting for replacement parts 
but looking at the terms and conditions I can see it says, the following are  excluded from 
cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be liable for any of the following any losses 
caused by any delays in obtaining spare parts. 
I recognise this was a frustrating time for Mr D and his wife, and that issues with heating and 
hot water in the winter to early spring period wouldnt have been ideal given everything Mr D 
has told us. However, based on everything Ive seen I think the £250 offered by Aviva for the 
delays in stopping the water leak and fully repairing the boiler is fair under the 
circumstances.  
Property repairs and trouble and upset
Mr D has explained in length the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the delays in 
repairing his property. Although I wont be commenting on each individual part, I have looked 
at his comments in detail as part of my decision. I recognise this was a distressing time for 
Mr D and I note his comments about the renovations he and his wife had previously paid for. 
I dont think it was in doubt that Aviva were going to put the property back to the way it was - 
as theyd already agreed to carry out the repairs  but what I need to look at here is the 
impact and delays in doing so.
Its not in dispute here that there was a breakdown in the relationship between Mr D and the 
original contractors, and its not my role to decide who was at fault here as both parties have 
different versions of events and different opinions on what they feel was reasonable in 
dealing with each other. So I wont be commenting on the emails between Mr D and P. 
Looking at the evidence I can see that Mr D spoke to Aviva about the damage to his property 
in mid-April. By mid-May Aviva had sent their contractors to investigate what remedial work was required and they had agreed to provide a cash settlement to Mr D or arrange for their 
contractors to complete the work  which was accepted by Mr D. P then started work in 
early-June. I dont think this was an unreasonable timescale for works to commence. 
Mr D has said he was unhappy with the time it took Aviva to deal with the issues hed 
experienced with P and that he hadnt received the service he expected. Ive looked at the 
timeline that Mr D provided, and I think on some occasions there were unreasonable 
expectations from Mr D on when he felt he should receive a response and how he thought 
the business should operate. 
I can see that the original case handler Mr D was dealing with was unexpectedly unwell and 
that the subsequent case handler updated Mr D where possible so I cant say they treated 
Mr D unfairly here or that this was something they could control. I also have to consider that 
Mr Ds complaint occurred during a global pandemic and its reasonable to think that there 
may have been some impact on Avivas ability to maintain their usual service levels during 
this time. 
However, I do think Aviva couldve done more once the case had been passed to the next 
case handler  who Ill call J. I say this because Mr D had been told he would receive a call 
back from a manager which his didnt receive and I think it would have been reasonable for 
Aviva to either arrange this as agreed or at least explain why this didnt happen. I havent 
seen any evidence of this so I can understand why Mr D felt frustrated.
I recognise that J wanted to speak to P to see what had happened between themselves and 
Mr D so that he could resolve the issues  and I dont this was unreasonable given the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint. However, Mr D provided a breakdown of costs on 1 July 
2020 and J only confirmed that hed looked at this information on 21 July. So Im satisfied 
Avivas actions caused delays in getting Mr D the settlement amount agreed and therefore 
prolonged the time for him to source someone else to repair his property. 
Mr D has listed in detail why he felt the downstairs bathroom had, and could, cause him and 
his family issues. I acknowledge Mr Ds comments about the mould having a potentially 
damaging effect on his and his wifes health. However Ive looked at the pictures provided by 
Mr D and there only appears to be a couple of small patches of mould behind the picture 
which was hanging on the wall, and a small patch of mould on the wall where the picture 
was hanging. 
I acknowledge that Mr D has provided current and historic health information about himself 
and his wife. However, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that the small mould 
patches would have had an impact on their health, and Im unable to award compensation 
on the basis of something that didnt actually happen. And based on the evidence Ive seen 
and what Mr D has told us, Im satisfied that the damp and mould could be contained in a 
ventilated room. 
I also recognise Mr Ds comments about the inconvenience of not being able to use the 
toilet. However, after the leak had been stopped and the remedial works had been started at 
the beginning of June, I think its reasonable to believe Mr D and his family could have used 
the toilet if needed - as they would have been able to open a window at that point - which 
would also have relieved some of the smell. I recognise that it would have been a frustrating 
time for Mr D, but there were other facilities available for him and his wife which could be 
used. So the impact here was less than if it had been the sole toilet in the property. 
Mr D has explained in detail that not being able to use the downstairs toilet caused himself 
and his wife distress. He told us that because there was an unpleasant smell of damp, he 
needed to keep the toilet door closed, and this meant any visitors had to use the other facilities in his home. However, I think its worth noting here that the issues Mr D has 
experienced with his downstairs toilet have been during the Covid lockdown period, and 
although distressing for him, this has occurred at a time where there have been restrictions 
on the number of visitors able to visit Mr Ds home so the impact would have been more 
limited during this period. 
Therefore, based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that there was a significant impact on 
Mr D here, as there were alternatives available - and the toilet was still a functioning facility - 
albeit not in the same decorative state it was usually. So I think the additional £300 
compensation offered by Aviva for the delay in settling the cost repairs is fair. 
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Aviva have done enough to put things right with 
the £550 total compensation theyve offered. So, I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman