DRN-3403610
The complaint
Ms K complained that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt close her account when she said shed 
asked it to. 
Miss K asked for £10,000 compensation, and for all adverse reports to be removed from her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss K had an HSBC student account. She said that in mid-2017, shed asked a branch to 
close the account. HSBC says it has no record of this being requested.
Miss Ks account had a zero balance in mid-2017 and after that there were no more 
transactions on the account until January 2020. Transactions then started again, so HSBC 
issued an account statement again on 8 January. One of these transactions was a large 
cheque which was paid into the account but bounced. 
Miss K has since said that when she received a statement in January 2020, she rang up to 
dispute transactions. She said she was asked to go into a branch with identification, and said 
she did so on 25 January. Miss K said that she told the branch she hadnt made the 
transactions and she wanted the account to be closed. HSBC doesnt have a record of this 
visit or request.
The transactions continued, including another large cheque which was paid into the account 
on 12 February and which also bounced. HSBC blocked the account on 13 February, and, 
as it couldnt get through by phone, wrote the same day asking her to get in touch about 
recent activity on the account. It sent a further letter on 14 April, also asking her to get in 
touch. Other letters were also sent around this time, about the overdrawn state of the 
account.
On 23 June, Miss K wrote to HSBC. She said shed been living away from her normal home 
because of the Covid pandemic lockdown and had come back and found some statements. 
She said shed previously asked to close the account, and the statement also showed a 
cheque being paid in and withdrawn on 12 February, which she said she hadnt done. She 
also queried the debit balance, saying shed repaid her overdraft and given instructions for 
the account to be closed. She asked HSBC to close the account.
HSBC replied that it couldnt see that shed previously repaid the overdrawn balance and 
asked to close the account. It said that it had placed a block on the account on 13 February 
because two counterfeit cheques had been paid in and had bounced.  It said it had recorded 
the fact that Miss K said she hadnt been aware of those. And it said that if she still wanted to 
close the account, she should arrange to repay the overdrawn balance, and HSBC would 
then close the account.
Miss K replied that shed paid the full balance two or three years earlier, so HSBC needed to 
go back and look at that. She said it was only due to HSBCs incompetence that a £228.98 
overdraft had built up after shed given categorial instructions to close the account on more 
than one occasion. She also said that her credit rating appeared to have been affected and 
she expected HSBC to compensate her. 
HSBC replied that although the balance had been zero for a period from June 2017, the 
account had then been used again from January 2020. It repeated that the balance was 
£228.98 and this needed to be repaid before the account could be closed.
Miss K complained to this service. She said HSBC was demanding repayment of £228.98 
which was incurred solely by the imposition of illegal fees and charges after shed reported 
fraudulent activity. She said shed asked for the account to be closed in 2017, so she 
couldnt be held responsible for the overdraft. She wanted HSBC to stop pursuing her for the 
money and close the account immediately, as the overdraft was HSBCs fault for leaving the 
account open when shed asked several times to close it. Miss K also said she believed her 
credit file had been affected and wanted £10,000 compensation.
Our investigator asked Miss K for copies of evidence to show shed asked HSBC to close 
the account. Miss K couldnt provide this, and said her contacts with HSBC had all been in a 
branch or by phone. 
Meanwhile, HSBC sent Miss K a letter on 13 June 2021. The letter said that it had contacted 
Miss K about her overdrawn balance, asking her to take action, but she hadnt done so. Miss 
K rang HSBC on 15 June and said that transactions on the account during 2020 had been 
fraudulent. She was transferred to HSBCs fraud team to report this. HSBC took the decision 
that, as a gesture of goodwill, it would refund the fees and charges and the transactions Miss 
K disputed. The account was then closed.
As the account and charges were no longer an issue, what our investigator considered was 
whether HSBC should pay Miss K any compensation for distress and inconvenience. The 
investigator explained that as neither Miss K nor HSBC had provided evidence that shed 
previously asked to close the account, she couldnt agree that Miss K had asked in 2017 but 
HSBC hadnt closed it until 2021. And although Miss K had claimed that HSBC had recorded 
marks against her credit file, leading to a low credit score, the investigator explained that as 
Miss K hadnt provided supporting evidence about her credit file, it was possible the low 
score had been caused by other factors, not HSBC.
But the investigator said that as HSBC had received Miss Ks request to close in June 2020, 
but hadnt done so until June 2021, it should pay Miss K £250 compensation.
Neither Miss K nor HSBC agreed. 
In Miss Ks reply to the view, she said she wanted £10,000 compensation. She said:
- shed cleared the balance in 2017;
- it was because of HSBC staff incompetence that there was no record of her requests 
to close the account;
- she believed HSBC had only recorded her June 2020 request to close the account 
because shed written to the Chief Executive; 
- she asked whether HSBC had recorded having blocked the account in February 
2020 and having written to her in April 2020 (which it did). She said if they hadnt 
been, this proved HSBC had failed to record her repeated requests to close the 
account;
- HSBC had damaged her credit and she insisted that it contact all credit reference 
agencies and take whatever steps were necessary to restore her credit rating.In HSBCs reply to the view, it pointed out that when it received Miss Ks request to close the 
account in June 2020, it had written to say Miss K needed to clear the debit balance first. 
HSBC also said that it hadnt recorded any defaults against Miss Ks credit file, and it 
wouldnt remove the monthly balances it had reported, because these were accurate.
As neither side agreed with the investigators view, it was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Requests to close the account
In my provisional decision, I noted that this service had asked Miss K to provide evidence 
that shed asked HSBC to close her account both in 2017 and at other points before her 
letter of 23 June 2020. She wasnt able to do so.  Miss K said that all her requests were 
made in person or by phone. But there is no evidence of these. And while Miss K is 
adamant, she did put her request in writing later. 
I also looked at HSBCs contact notes, and there was no evidence there to show that Miss K 
asked to close the account prior to her 23 June 2020 letter. So I considered it was more 
likely than not that her 23 June letter was the first time she asked to close the account.
Timeliness of closure after Miss Ks 23 June 2020 letter
I considered whether or not HSBC should have closed Miss Ks account more quickly after 
her 23 June 2020 letter. I read the letters between HSBC and Miss K. In these, HSBC made 
it clear that in order to do so, Miss K would have to pay the overdrawn balance. 
In my provisional decision, I also said that Id seen nothing to show that Miss K disputed the 
January 2020 transactions until the phone call on 15 June 2021. HSBC had picked up on the 
two large cheques which had been paid into Miss Ks account in early 2020 and which 
turned out to be fraudulent. And Miss K wrote to HSBC on 23 June 2020 about the large 
February 2020 cheque. But there had been other smaller transactions too.  So, when Miss K 
asked to close the account on 23 June 2020, there were transactions on the account which 
she hadnt yet raised as fraudulent, leading to an overdrawn balance. In my provisional 
decision, I found it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to require Miss K to pay the balance 
outstanding, and not to close it until she did. I considered it was this which largely led to the 
delay in closing the account after 23 June 2020. 
When Miss K did report the 2020 transactions as fraudulent, on 15 June 2021, HSBC took a 
business decision the same day that it wouldnt investigate all the transactions in full but 
would write off the fees and charges. The account was closed on 25 June 2021.
So I didnt find that HSBC delayed too long in closing Miss Ks account. 
Credit file
Recording that an account is using an overdraft wouldnt generally be considered adverse 
information, although its up to lenders to decide how they interpret this. The copy of Miss 
Ks credit file which she sent to us in November 2021 shows that HSBC reported the monthly 
balances on the account, as it was required to do. But it did look as if she hadnt made payments that were due, as her credit file showed a number of markers that reflect missed 
payments, or arrears on the account. 
Given the circumstances here, I asked HSBC whether it would be prepared to remove these 
records from Miss Ks credit file. In my view, that would reflect consistency with HSBCs 
business decision that it wouldnt investigate whether or not Miss K was liable for the 
transactions, but would write off the balance and close the account. HSBC agreed to do this 
in order to settle this complaint. I thought this was a fair thing to do.
Compensation
It followed from what Ive said above that I didnt consider HSBC acted incorrectly in relation 
to Miss Ks account. So I considered it didnt need to pay her any compensation. 
I said that I realised that my decision would come as a further disappointment to Miss K. She 
was unhappy with the £250 our investigator suggested, and now I was suggesting that 
HSBC didnt need to pay anything. But I hoped I had explained why this was.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K said she was clearly disappointed with the provisional decision. She commented on 
two points Id set out in the background. She said that the reason she contacted HSBC on 
15 June was in response to a letter it sent dated 13 June  it wasnt that she initiated the 
contact. She sent in a copy of that letter. 
Miss K also said that she had disputed the early 2020 transactions before June 2021. She 
repeated that shed raised them with a branch on 25 January 2020  but as I said in my 
provisional decision, theres no record of that. She also said shed done so in her letter of 23 
June 2020. 
Miss K also said that the fraudulent activity on her HSBC account was a direct result of her 
mail being intercepted. She said shed reported this to Royal Mail, and had also reported a 
fraud against one of her credit cards in August 2019.
Miss K said that she was hugely disappointed that I didnt intend to award her compensation. 
She said shed been forced to spend £14.99 on obtaining an external credit report, and had 
had to endure a considerable amount of stress, and waste of time, when she was a student. 
She asked that I should take these factors into account in reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Miss Ks response to the provisional decision.
Miss K has told us that she didnt initiate the contact in June 2021, but responded to an 
HSBC letter.  Ive amended the background facts above to reflect that, but it doesnt affect 
the outcome. 
I recognise that Miss K maintains that she contacted HSBC about the fraudulent transactions 
before June 2021. As Ive set out, there is no record of her going to a branch in January 
2020.  And her letter of June 2020 focused on the cheque, so I can see why HSBC 
responded to this in the way it did. In any event, as there was still an overdrawn balance, I consider this was the major factor in the delay in closing the account after 23 June 2020. So 
this too doesnt affect the outcome. 
In Miss Ks response to the provisional decision, she drew my attention to the fact that she 
did not repay any of the overdraft. Ive taken that on board. But that doesnt change my 
findings. Thats because it doesnt impact the issues about when Miss K asked to close the 
account, the timeliness of the closure, or Miss Ks credit file.
Im sorry to hear that Miss K had had problems with her mail being intercepted. While it must 
have been inconvenient and frustrating, it wasnt something for which I could hold HSBC 
responsible or award compensation.
I also recognise that Miss K is unhappy not to receive compensation, especially when shed 
asked for £10,000. But we're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not 
unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with 
financial businesses. Here, Im not persuaded that HSBC did anything which means it should 
pay Miss K any compensation, nor reimburse her for the £14.99 she spent obtaining a copy 
of her credit report.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:
- I order HSBC UK Bank plc to arrange for the deletion of any information it reported 
on Miss Ks credit file as a result of this situation, in relation to the balances 
outstanding and any adverse information about payments being missed; 
- I do not order HSBC to pay any compensation to Miss K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman