DRN-2526712
The complaint
On behalf of H, a limited company, Mrs L complains that Be Wiser Insurance Services 
Limited didnt advise that contents cover for Hs vans was needed when arranging a 
commercial fleet insurance policy for H.
What happened
When one of Hs vans was stolen in July 2019, the insurer didnt pay for the loss of its 
contents, as the fleet policy didnt cover them. Mrs L said when she bought Hs policy 
through Be Wiser in 2017, she was asked many questions about its business. But Be Wiser 
didnt mention contents cover then, or at the policys two renewals. Mrs L said Be Wiser 
should have realised H needed extra cover for the vans valuable contents. 
Be Wiser said Mrs L would have been asked in 2017 what she required for Hs cover and 
there was nothing to suggest shed mentioned contents insurance. It said she could already 
have bought extra cover for H through another broker. And it said Mrs L had been told to 
read the fleet policy document carefully, to ensure the cover met Hs needs. 
One of our investigators reviewed Hs complaint. She said Be Wiser had offered the fleet 
policy for H on an advised basis, so it should have thought about how H operated, in order to 
decide whether that policy was suitable. She thought Be Wiser should have noted that there 
was a gap in the cover it was offering. She noted that Mrs L had produced invoices and 
receipts that she said showed goods worth over £12,000 were lost when the van was stolen. 
The investigator said Be Wiser should pay for the vans contents in line with the goods in 
transit contents policy it had sold Mrs L for H after the theft.
Be Wiser said although the initial sales call couldnt be located, its advisor had queried the 
liquids carried in the vans and how they were used. It said its advisors usually also asked 
whether goods in transit cover was needed. Be Wiser said Mrs L didnt query the policy 
exclusion for business-related contents, despite having much commercial experience. 
Be Wiser also said business items were normally insured as part of a commercial combined 
policy  which in Hs case was arranged through another broker. It said the fleet policy was 
suitable for the cover Mrs L had asked for, as the insurer had covered the cost of the stolen 
van. The investigator said that as soon as Mrs L became aware that contents cover was 
needed for H, she arranged it.  So she thought Mrs L would have done that from the start 
had she been aware of Hs need for it from the start. 
Be Wiser then said that goods in transit policies werent designed to cover retained business 
items, due to their exclusions, which would mean a maximum of 80% of Hs claim may be 
paid. And it said as H didnt have goods in transit cover in place previously, Mrs L wouldnt 
have bought it for H in 2017 anyway. Subsequently, Be Wiser said a broker offering 
commercial combined insurance would have been able to advise on cover for the businesss 
goods and assets away from its premises, as in this case. It said Be Wiser didnt sell 
complex property and liability cover. Be Wiser thought we wanted to challenge reasonable 
market practice by (in its view) switching a class of insurance from one competence set to 
another. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, upholding the complaint, but on a slightly different basis to the 
investigator and with different remedies. I made the following provisional findings:
As the sale of the fleet policy was an advised sale, it was for Be Wiser to ensure it 
was a reasonable fit for H. I thought the fleet policy was suitable to cover the vans, 
but that H needed extra cover for the items carried and retained in them. I said I 
thought a broker should be aware of any significant gaps in the policy it was selling 
and should check whether a customer had other necessary cover in place.
I noted that Be Wiser said its advisors normally ask if goods in transit cover is 
needed, but Mrs L said it wasnt mentioned during the sales call in 2017 or later. As 
Be Wiser didnt have the call recording, I didnt think it could show that the issue was 
raised. I also noted that Be Wiser had said since then that goods in transit  cover 
wouldnt have been right for H. 
Be Wiser sold Mrs L goods in transit insurance for H in July 2019 (when she asked it 
for extra cover after the insurer had declined to pay for the vans contents). I noted 
that its website showed Be Wiser can also arrange cover for the carriage of a 
businesss own goods. But it seemed Be Wisers advisors didnt consider contents 
cover at all in 2017 or later. I said I thought advising her that H needed further cover 
(through Be Wiser or elsewhere) would have discharged its duty to H.  
As Mrs L arranged extra cover for H as soon as she realised H needed it, I said I 
thought it likely that shed have bought any contents cover suggested to her by Be 
Wiser in 2017 or later. Mrs H had said she didnt know about the need for the cover 
until after the van was stolen in 2019, and I thought that was probably the case. 
I said as Mrs L went to Be Wiser for professional advice in 2017 and relied on that 
advice, it was at fault if its advisor didnt raise the issue of contents cover. I didnt 
think Be Wiser would have needed to act outside its competence set in order to do 
that (as Be Wiser had suggested) or to advise Mrs L to look elsewhere. 
I thought it would be fair for Be Wiser to cover the loss of the items in Hs stolen van, 
but I thought its concerns about discrepancies in the documents already produced 
were reasonable. That included a claim for several 25-litre drums of oil (when the 
van was only supposed to carry one) plus a 150-litre oil drum. I also didnt think it 
was clear what standard items carried in the van had been used on the day of the 
theft, and hadnt yet been replaced, and so couldnt be claimed for. 
I said it was for Mrs L to show what Hs losses were. I thought she should review all 
the items shed listed on invoices and the receipts provided, using Hs records - 
including the stolen vans schedule for the day, to confirm the items that were in it 
after that days work. I thought she should then agree with Be Wiser a sum for the 
loss of contents, based on a detailed account of the items she believed were stolen.
I didnt think Be Wiser should pay the claim in line with the goods in transit policy, as 
it had said it wasnt suitable and the most that would be payable would be 80% of 
the claim. I thought Be Wiser should have advised Mrs L from 2017 onwards about 
how best to ensure that the full contents of the vans were covered - through a policy 
covering the property owned by H and carried / retained in the vans. Alternatively, as 
it could also have referred her elsewhere to get full cover, thats what it should pay.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs L accepted them on 
behalf of H. Be Wiser also accepted them, although it made several comments.Be Wiser said there was no obligation on it to provide advice outside its terms of 
business. It said it provided the policy Mrs L requested for H. It didnt think it should 
have to advise on vehicle contents, as it said that would require extra product 
knowledge and expertise to be in place. But Be Wiser accepted that its customers 
should be reminded of the need to cover property in their vehicles - whether it could 
advise further on that or not. It said it believed it had done so here, but as the call wasnt 
available, it accepted it couldnt show that was the case. Be Wiser also said it accepted 
the need for a fleet broker to make it clear to a client that no advice would be given 
beyond the instructions given by the client. It said if it was at fault, that was because it 
couldnt show it had put its customer in an informed position.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think Be Wiser would have needed to act outside its 
competence set in order to offer extra cover to H or to advise Mrs L to look elsewhere for it. I 
still think thats true. But I wasnt suggesting at all that it should have to advise on other 
classes of insurance in every case - or try to cover all the insurance needs of a client. 
   
I think in many cases where fleet insurance is sold, thats all a customer will need, as cover 
for the fleets vans themselves is all thats required. But in this case, Be Wiser established 
when discussing fleet cover with Mrs L that Hs vans carried and retained products for 
business use. So it was aware that extra cover of some sort was needed. And Be Wiser sold 
at least one product that seemed to be suitable for insuring Hs vans contents. In those 
circumstances, I think its fair to say that it should at least have mentioned the option of 
considering that cover for H to Mrs L. Alternatively, Be Wiser could simply have advised her 
to seek advice on contents cover for H elsewhere. 
I think Mrs L would have accepted any advice Be Wiser gave her. It makes no sense that if 
contents cover had been mentioned, shed have disregarded it - especially given the value of 
the vans contents. I agree that if Be Wiser could show that it had put her in an informed 
position, it would have discharged its duty to H, but it has accepted that it cant do that. 
In these circumstances, as H faced a financial loss following the theft, I remain of the view 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Be Wiser to put that right  on the basis that its for 
Mrs L to demonstrate Hs actual loss, so a suitable sum can be agreed with Be Wiser.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Be Wiser to do the following:
Agree a settlement sum for H to cover the full loss of contents of the stolen van 
(based on the cover that should have been in place from 2017 onwards) subject to 
Mrs L and Be Wiser reviewing the relevant documents, as outlined above 
Deduct the premium thats likely to have been payable for the relevant policy, plus 
the policys standard excess from the settlement sum 
Add interest to the settlement sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement
If Be Wiser thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so H can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman