DRN-2734655
The complaint
Mr A, Mrs S and Mr S complain that MD Insurance Services Limited withdrew its offer 
to provide warranties for their development. Theyre also unhappy about the 
administration fees charged.
For ease, Ill refer to Mr A, Mrs S and Mr S as the complainants throughout this decision.
What happened
The complainants were redeveloping some properties for private rental, as well as 
commercial use. In July 2017, they applied to MD for two structural warranties to cover 
their developments.
The aim of the warranties was for the underwriter to protect against faults that arose in 
the first ten years of insurance cover. The warranties would start once MD was satisfied 
that the development was carried out to a satisfactory standard and was suitable for 
warranty purposes.
Over the next two years, MD carried out a number of site visits. Then in October 2019, 
MD told the complainants that the order for their warranties had been cancelled 
because of outstanding structural review information. It retained part of the premium as 
an administration fee for the work already carried out. Unhappy with this, the 
complainants brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought MD had acted unfairly. He didnt think MD had been entitled to 
withdraw cover. Though as the complainants had arranged a replacement combined 
warranty that was cheaper than the two warranties initially offered by MD, he didnt think 
MD needed to do anything further in that respect.
However, our investigator didnt think MD ought to have charged an administration fee 
when it withdrew cover. He therefore recommended that MD refund that fee, plus interest. 
He also thought MD should pay the complainants £250 additional compensation for poor 
customer service.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2021. Heres what I said:
MD advised the complainants that it had cancelled their order for technical reasons 
due to outstanding structural review information.
After our investigator reached his view on the matter, MD provided this service with a Rule 
of Registration document. MD says this is the contract between it and developers (the 
complainants).
The Rule of Registration document says:
Once the Company has accepted a quotation for insurance for a New Development 
and has paid the applicable premium, the terms as put forward on the quotation will 
apply unless:
a) the Surveyor is unable to issue a Certificate of Approval for the New 
Development or Home(s);

e) there is a low quality assessment score for other New Development(s) 
of the Company.

In any of the above circumstances, the Scheme Administrator or the Underwriter 
reserves the right to amend or withdraw the terms of its quotation or any offer to 
provide insurance
It would have been helpful if MD had provided this document with its file papers, rather 
than at such a late stage of this service investigating the complaint.
The Certificate of Approval is the certificate issued by MDs surveyor on or 
following satisfactory completion of the development.
I accept that the above term allowed MD to withdraw its offer to provide the warranties if 
its surveyor couldnt issue a Certificate of Approval. However, MD hasnt shown that it 
ever provided the Rule of Registration document to the complainants, or advised them 
that the contract between the parties was based upon the terms set out in the document. It 
isnt reasonable to rely on a contract term when the other party has no knowledge of those 
terms.
Ive read the other documents that were provided to the complainants, namely the 
marketing material, the policy terms, the quotation, and the terms of business. Having 
done so, I agree with our investigator that these dont allow MD to withdraw cover. They 
explain that a Certificate of Insurance would only be provided once MDs surveyor had 
signed off the development, but withholding the insurance certificate isnt the same as 
ending the contract.
That means the only document that allowed MD to withdraw its offer to provide the 
warranties was the Rule of Registration document, but as Ive said, MD hasnt shown 
that the complainants agreed to the terms within it.
However, even if MD can show that it provided the Rule of Registration document to 
the complainants, I would still find that it wasnt appropriate for MD to withdraw its 
offer to provide the warranties. Ill explain why.
In October 2019, MDs structural engineer expressed concerns to MD about several 
matters with the redevelopment, including that he thought the project wasnt 
compliant with Building Regulations. Based on those concerns, MD decided to 
withdraw its offer of the warranties.
That doesnt seem fair. MD didnt give the complainants any notice that its surveyor 
wouldnt be able to issue a Certificate of Approval. I see that MD had requested further 
structural information from the complainants, which hadnt been forthcoming. However, 
the complainants explain that their structural engineer had been hospitalised in 2019, 
which had caused some delays. I understand they made MD aware of that.
The complainants eventually obtained further information from their structural engineer in 
August 2019, and immediately provided that to MDs engineer. The complainants thought 
that this additional information would resolve any concerns MDs engineer had, and that final sign-off on the development could take place. However, MDs engineer didnt 
respond to this further information, and so the complainants didnt know that the further 
information wasnt enough to resolve the engineers concerns about the build.
I think MD ought to have advised the complainants of its engineers concerns, and told 
them that a Certificate of Approval wouldnt be issued until the relevant matters had been 
addressed. If that had happened, then the complainants would at least have had the 
opportunity to put matters right with the build. If theyd refused to make the necessary 
changes or provide the further information, then presumably they would have cancelled 
the cover themselves if theyd known that a Certificate of Approval wouldnt be issued.
MD has referred to the development having a low-quality score, but I havent seen 
any evidence of that. Also, as our investigator has pointed, the reference to the low-
quality assessment score in the Rule of Registration document only refers to other 
new developments of the complainants, and so isnt relevant here.
Putting matters right
After MD withdrew its offer to provide the warranties, the complainants were able to 
obtain replacement cover, and for a lower cost. I therefore agree with our investigator 
that they didnt experience any financial loss in this respect.
However, MD retained part of the premium paid as an administration fee. It relied on 
its terms of business document in doing so.
Having read the terms of business, I agree with our investigator that these only set out the 
administration fees that MD can charge if the complainants had cancelled the cover. It 
doesnt say that MD could charge those administration fees if it chose to withdraw its offer 
to provide the warranties.
The terms of business document also set out what fees can be charged by MD if the 
developer went into insolvency/administration, or the site was put on hold for a period of 
time deemed unacceptable for risk management purposes  but those circumstances 
dont apply here.
If I were persuaded that the complainants would have likely cancelled the cover 
themselves rather than make the changes and provide the necessary information to MDs 
engineer, then I may have concluded that it was reasonable for MD to charge the 
administration fee, as this would be in line with its terms of business.
However, Im not persuaded that the complainants would have cancelled the cover. I 
say that because they were nearing the end of the build, and had worked with MD for 
over two years. I think, on balance, they would have wanted to make the necessary 
changes required by MDs engineer in order for a Certificate of Approval to be issued. 
The alternative would have been for them to lose a significant amount of money in an 
administration fee, and then likely experience delays in trying to find another company 
to provide a new warranty, at a late stage of the development.
Consequently, I intend to require MD to reimburse the complainants the administration 
fee it retained.
Customer service
I think the complainants were caused a great deal of worry as a result of MD withdrawing cover when it did, and without prior notice of this. I also agree with our 
investigator that the complainants experienced poor customer service when they 
provided MDs engineer with further information and received no response, despite 
them chasing this several times. I therefore intend to require MD to pay £350 
compensation for this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I issued a final decision. 
The complainants responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
MD didnt provide any further comments in respect of my provisional findings. Though it 
did question why the complaint wasnt set up against the underwriter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider in respect of my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to alter these. 
MD questioned why the complaint wasnt set up against the underwriter. As the investigator 
has explained, the warranties didnt go into force, and so the complaint was set up against 
MD as it was MDs decision to withdraw its offer to provide the warranties and to retain part 
of the premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MD Insurance Services Limited 
to reimburse the complainants the fees it retained from them. Interest should be added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the rest of the premium was refunded 
to the date of settlement*.
* If MD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell the complainants how much its taken off. It should also give the 
complainants a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also require MD to pay the complainants an additional £350 as compensation for the 
inconvenience and worry they were caused by the matter.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs S and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman