DRN-2285285
The complaint
Mrs K has complained Nationwide Building Society did nothing to help her when she was 
charged for hire car insurance she didnt ask for or need.
What happened
Mrs K was overseas on holiday in September 2019. She hired two separate (but similar) 
cars for periods whilst she was away. Both cars were hired from a well-known hire company 
(who Ill call G).
After she picked up the second car, Mrs K noticed the additional charges were much lower 
than for the first car shed picked up. She quickly realised shed been charged for insurance 
cover shed not agreed to or needed. She immediately complained to G who werent 
prepared to help out as Mrs K had signed the appropriate documentation.
Mrs K then took her complaint to Nationwide as shed used the credit card she held with 
them. They raised her complaint with G (although this wasnt formally a chargeback) to see if 
they would reimburse the amount Mrs K disputed. G responded by showing Mrs K had 
signed the agreement, which showed the amount to be charged. As Nationwide could take 
the dispute no further, they let Mrs K know.
As Mrs K remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but didnt believe Nationwide had further grounds to 
dispute the payment with G. 
Still dissatisfied, Mrs K has asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its worth saying straightaway that I believe Mrs K completely when she says she wasnt 
asked whether she wanted insurance when she picked up her first car. Mrs K had booked 
the cars and paid for them in advance. When shed done this, shed not indicated she 
needed insurance. She also already held an annual car hire excess insurance policy.
So Im satisfied if shed been asked about additional insurance, shed have rejected it. As 
she did for the second car she hired. However its clear from the signed agreement  
showing the amount Mrs K paid  that insurance is included. The agreement isnt in English 
so I can well appreciate Mrs K didnt realise what she was agreeing to at the time. Im also 
sure that Mrs Ks belief that chicanery was involved may well not be wide of the mark.
Unfortunately that doesnt mean there is much I can do to help her. However much she may 
think I should be able to.
Firstly Mrs K knew of the amount she was being charged and consented to make the 
payment. In banking terms she authorised the transaction so Nationwide is under no 
obligation to reimburse her.
Secondly Nationwide did raise an informal dispute with G. They were then given a copy of 
the agreement and a clear indication that G would challenge any formal dispute. We 
certainly expect banks to raise disputes on their customers behalf but only where there is a 
reasonable expectation of success. I dont think in this case  where G had rejected Mrs Ks 
dispute then Nationwides on her behalf  theres much likelihood G would have accepted 
any further challenge from Nationwide.
Overall I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to do anything further. 
I appreciate Mrs K will feel shes been treated unfairly but Nationwide cant help resolve the 
problem she had with G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman