DRN-3670462
The complaint
Mrs W complains about her insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), on the 
premiums charged for her home insurance policy. 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA includes 
these agents.
Mrs W was supported by a representative in bringing her complaint. References to Mrs W 
include her representative.
What happened
Mrs W had a buildings insurance policy with RSA, which shed had for many years. The 
annual premium had increased over the period, to £436.80 at renewal in 2020. In 2021, 
shortly ahead of the renewal date, RSA contacted Mrs W to say they wouldnt be renewing 
the policy. The policy had initially been provided through a building society, with RSA 
administering and underwriting the policy since 1999. The building society subsequently 
moved to a different insurer, but RSA continued to provide cover to existing policyholders 
under the policy until they took a commercial decision to discontinue providing policies 
(including the policy held by Mrs W).
As RSA would no longer provide cover, Mrs W looked for alternative cover. She obtained a 
significantly lower premium for a policy from another insurer (for what she thought was 
similar cover). Concerned at this, Mrs W complained to RSA. She said shed been paying a 
high premium for the policy over the years, as shown by the significantly lower premium for 
her new policy.  
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said the premiums charged 
were in line with their rating (pricing) structure for the policy. They said renewal documents 
had been sent to Mrs W, detailing the cover offered and the premiums. Mrs W had the 
opportunity to consider the terms (including the premiums) and to look at alternative policies 
and insurers if she wasnt happy. RSA added the policy was provided on a non-advisory 
basis, so they couldnt recommend a particular policy to Mrs W. They thought theyd 
operated within the parameters set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as the 
insurance industry regulator.
Mrs W then complained to this service, unhappy at the premiums charged by RSA over the 
years. She said shed been paying significantly more for a buildings-only policy, compared to 
the like for like policy shed now taken out with another insurer. She felt shed been 
overcharged and exploited by RSA for being a loyal customer. She also thought shed been 
exploited because of her age. She wanted to reach a financial settlement with RSA based on 
the difference in premiums between those shed been paying and the premium for her new 
policy (a difference of £346 based on the most recent premium for her policy with RSA).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
She thought that  while the policy premiums had increased  there wasnt any evidence 
RSA had treated Mrs W unfairly. The pricing of Mrs Ws policy and the profit margin on the 
policy appeared typical of other customers with the same policy in similar circumstances. 
While Mrs W had obtained a new policy at a lower premium, it didnt indicate RSA had 
wrongly charged Mrs W for her policy.
 
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs W. 
The key issue in Mrs Ws complaint is whether RSA have acted fairly in the pricing of her 
policy through the premiums charged over the years Mrs W held the policy, to the time RSA 
didnt offer to renew it in 2021.
 
Mrs W says shes paid significantly more for the policy, compared to the like for like policy 
shes now taken out with another insurer. She feels shes been overcharged and exploited 
by RSA for being a loyal customer. She also thinks shes been exploited because of her age. 
For their part, RSA say the premiums charged are in line with their rating structure for the 
policy. And that renewal documents had been sent to Mrs W, giving her opportunity to 
consider the terms (including the premiums) and to look at alternative policies and insurers if 
she wasnt happy.
RSA have provided information and explanations about the level of these premiums as part 
of this services investigation of Mrs Ws complaint. I want to reassure Mrs W that Ive 
carefully considered all the information and explanations. Having done so, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I understand that Mrs W will be disappointed with this, but I will 
explain how I reached this conclusion. 
With complaints about insurance pricing, its important to understand our services role isnt 
to regulate the insurance industry  but to consider individual complaints. We cant tell a 
business what it should charge for insurance but can, when assessing individual complaints, 
make sure customers have been treated fairly. 
Insurance pricing practices have moved on over the years and so the price in 2020 isn't 
necessarily reflective of that in earlier years. Insurance risk assessments have also changed 
on numerous occasions over the years.  And new policies are often offered at a discounted 
price to the true cost of providing the insurance, and sometimes the premium will increase 
over time to recoup that discount. Ultimately, just because the price of an insurance policy 
has gone up, it doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong. But RSA needed to 
follow the principle of treating its customers fairly  which in this case meant treating Mrs W 
fairly when deciding what premium to charge at renewal.
Coming back to the circumstances of Mrs Ws policy and the premiums charged, wed 
expect RSA to be able to demonstrate the premium increases reflect their changing 
view of the risks and other factors. From the information provided by RSA, I can see 
that the increases reflect several factors, including their assessment of risk (including 
the risk of flooding to Mrs Ws property). Other factors include: rate changes arising 
from adjustments to reflect account experience (of the kind of policy held by Mrs W): 
and claims inflation (the general increase in the cost of claims). Ive also noted that the buildings sum insured has also increased over the period 
2018 to 2020 (the period for which Ive seen detailed renewal information, as RSA 
werent able to provide detailed information before 2018), as the policy provides for 
index linking of the sum insured in line with movements in the House Rebuilding Cost 
Index. This helps ensure the policy cover remains appropriate, should the property be 
subject to loss. RSA have said the premium increases reflect this index linking and 
looking at the renewal premium (as a proportion of the sum insured) this has 
remained broadly the same. This would support RSAs view.
RSA have also provided information on the profit margins on the policy, which have 
remained broadly consistent over time (and were negative in the early years of the 
policy) and in line with RSA policies more generally. 
Ive also considered RSAs point that Mrs W had the opportunity to consider the terms 
(including the premiums) and to look at alternative policies and insurers if she wasnt 
happy. Each of the renewal documents for 2018 to 2020 contain the following 
statement in the covering letter:
You have been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the 
insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around. If you do, 
please be aware that some of our policy benefits may be available to our 
existing customers only, so it is important that you compare like for like.
I think this makes it clear to Mrs W that she could have considered alternative cover from 
other insurers.
Ive also considered what Mrs W has told us about how RSA has treated her, that shes 
been exploited because of her age. I appreciate what Mrs W feels, but this service cant 
make a finding on whether an act or omission is discriminatory under the provisions of the 
Equality Act 2010, only a court can do this. However, as the Act is relevant to Mrs Ws 
complaint, Ive taken it into account when considering whether RSA acted in a fair and 
reasonable way.
 
Ive considered whether Mrs W was treated any differently than would a policyholder of a 
different age in the same circumstances. Looking at what happened, Ive not seen anything 
to indicate that they treated Mrs W differently. Their decision not to renew her policy was 
taken on commercial grounds, affecting those policies originally provided through a building 
society  it wasnt specific to Mrs W. And given my conclusions about RSA acting fairly and 
reasonably in setting the premiums for the policy and the reasons for that, I dont think RSA 
treated Mrs W any differently than any other policyholder in the same circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman