DRN-2895566
The complaint
Mr D complaints that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (Paypal) wont refund money he lost 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, Mr Ds wife was purchasing an Xbox through Shpock. Mr D has said 
that the seller told his wife that when making the payment she should select the family and 
friends option. 
Believing the seller to be genuine, on 1 June 2020, Mrs D went ahead and made a payment 
for £240 through Mr Ds PayPal account. Unfortunately the item didnt arrive, unknown to her 
at the time Mrs D had been communicating with a scammer and had made the payment to a 
fraudster.
Mr D contacted PayPal to report the scam. PayPal looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt 
uphold it. In summary it said that as the payment had been made using the friends and 
family option it wouldnt be covered by its Buyer Protection Policy. Mr D was unhappy with 
this response and so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and initially thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She said this because she didnt think PayPal had done enough in trying to recover 
the money Mr D had lost, once it had reported the scam to it. She said that it appeared that, 
at the point where Mr D reported the scam, the funds hadnt reached the scammer  and as 
the funds, still appeared to be held by PayPal it had ample opportunity to stop the scam and 
recover the money. 
PayPal disagreed with our investigators view and provided further evidence, which showed 
the funds leaving the recipient PayPal account almost immediately after they had been 
received. Based on this new evidence coming to light, our investigator thought that even if 
PayPal had tried to recover the funds on 2 June 2020, when Mr D first raised the matter with 
it, it would have been unable to recover any money, as the funds had already been removed 
from the recipients account. Our investigator explained that while she understood it was 
frustrating that her outcome had changed, on the evidence shed seen she couldnt ask 
PayPal to refund the money Mr D had lost. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a financial institution is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make without undue delay, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
While Mr D did raise this with PayPal as an unauthorised transaction, Im persuaded that this 
was only due to there being no other clear option to raise the scam in another way. And both 
parties agree that Mr D authorised the transaction, where he thought he was making a 
genuine purchase for a games console. Because of this, PayPal had an obligation to follow 
her instruction.
PayPal has confirmed that its buyer protection policy doesnt apply to personal payments. 
These are designed for payments between friends and family and arent designed by PayPal 
to pay for goods and services. But I have to consider whether PayPal ought fairly and 
reasonably to have assisted Mr D, when he raised the matter, regardless of him selecting 
family and friends and the fact that its buyer protection policy doesnt apply to these types 
of payment. Having thought about this carefully, I think it ought to have done, and where Mr 
D had raised the matter I would have expected PayPal to fairly and reasonably done what it 
could to try and help Mr D. 
Considering what the Industry best practice was at the time, it offered bank customers the 
ability to claim back payments where theyve been the victim of a scam. While PayPal, as 
operator of their own payment scheme, are not part of that model, I can consider as 
highlighted above whether those principles can  because they are best practice  be 
considered more widely. 
I think I can fairly and reasonably have expected PayPal, where it is running both the 
sending and recipient account, to make an attempt to recover the funds, when one of its 
customers reports a scam to it, to try and help them recover their loss. But, it doesnt 
automatically follow that where PayPal, in the circumstances of this complaint, havent tried 
to recover the funds that they are required to refund Mr D the money. I also have to take into 
consideration what is more likely than not to have happened, had it tried.
Here, Ive seen from information PayPal has provided that within a minute or two of Mr D 
making the payment, the funds had been removed from the recipients accounts. Which is 
sadly often the case with scams, where fraudsters move money on very quickly after 
receiving funds. So here, even if PayPal had acted in a timely manner when Mr D reported 
the scam on 2 June 2020, it wouldnt have made a difference and it wouldnt have been able 
to recover Mr Ds money, as it had already been withdrawn from the recipient account. 
I am sorry that Mr D has lost out, and I also understand the whole experience must have 
been very frustrating and upsetting for him, but in the circumstances, for the reasons 
explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order PayPal to refund Mr D the money 
he sadly lost. 
I can see Mr D has previously asked about taking action against PayPal to sue them. This 
would be a matter for the courts and not something that this service would look into or offer 
advice on. Mr D doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be 
binding on him. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ds 
right to pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this 
complaintMy final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman