DRN-2656385
The complaint
Mr H complains that Arrow Global Limited secured a debt against his property without his 
knowledge and that it has overcharged him interest.
What happened
In 2007, Mr H took out a secured loan with another lender. The loan was for £23,098.75 over
eight years. In 2016, the loan was sold to Arrow.
In 2019, Mr H was selling his home. He says it was only then that he discovered that Arrow
held a charge over the property and that he needed to pay around £38,000 to remove the
charge.
Mr H complains that he didnt know that the previous lender had sold his mortgage to Arrow, 
that no payments had been collected for many years and he had been overcharged interest. 
He says this matter had caused him a great deal of stress and that was making his health 
problems worse.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. I said Id look at any more 
comments and evidence. But unless that information changed my mind, my decision would 
be along the lines of my provisional decision. I didnt consider that it was fair for Arrow to 
apply interest in they way that it did. I proposed that it should refund any interest it applied 
from 5 December 2016 until the mortgage was repaid  with interest at 8% simple per year 
on that amount from the date the mortgage was repaid until date of settlement. I also said 
that Arrow should pay Mr H £200 for any distress and inconvenience.
Mr H accepted my provisional findings. Arrow didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement that Mr H took out in May 2007. It sets out clearly
and prominently that the loan was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and that it 
was secured on his home. The letter from Mr Hs solicitors regarding the sale of his home 
states that the charge with Arrow was dated the same as the loan agreement. I can see 
Arrow wrote to Mr H when it acquired the account in 2016. And the terms of the original loan
allowed it to be sold without Mr Hs consent. I am satisfied that the loan with Arrow was the
same loan that Mr H took out with the other lender  and that it was secured against his
home.
As far as I can see this loan was secured because it was always secured against Mr Hs
home  not because Arrow took a charge on a loan that was originally unsecured.
Mr Hs last payment to the loan was in April 2012. The loan balance appeared to be
£26,602.36 when it was transferred to Arrow  that was after the term had ended.
On 5 December 2016, Arrows notes say that term has ended with a large balance 
outstanding and due. Borrower has made no payments for 4 years and no engagement I see 
no other option but to start legal proceedings. I can also see that Arrow was aware of Mr Hs 
health problems and vulnerability at that time. I agree that legal action might have been fair 
at that point  it was unlikely that any agreement could be reached to repay the mortgage in 
a sustainable way.
But Arrow didnt start legal action. It wasnt until Mr H sold his property in 2019 that the debt
was repaid. And as far as I can see Arrow continued to apply interest throughout that period.
I accept that it was difficult for Arrow to explore what it could do to help Mr H without his
engagement. But Mr H had significant health problems during that time, that I can see would
make contact difficult. And Arrows own notes show that it had good reason to start legal
action by December 2016 at the latest. It decided not to do so  largely it seems because
there were other charges that had priority. But I dont consider it was fair to make that
decision and continue to apply interest in the circumstances of this case.
I say this as Arrow knew Mr H was vulnerable. The term of the loan had ended, it had been
in arrears for many years and no payment had been made since 2012. There is evidence
that Arrow was aware of Mr Hs wider circumstances  including that it knew his other
outgoings. Based on the information it had, I consider that Arrow ought reasonably to have
been aware that Mr H was in financial difficulty and that the level of debt was rising if interest
continued to be charged. There were a range of options that the relevant rules say Arrow
could have considered including suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further
interest or charges.
In view of the above, the lack of legal action from Arrow and the overall individual
circumstances of this case, I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for it to apply interest
from December 2016. So I consider it would be fair for Arrow to refund all of the interest it
applied to the loan from 5 December 2016 until the loan was repaid. It should also pay 
interest on that amount at 8% simple per year from the date the mortgage was repaid until 
date of settlement.
Its clear that Mr H has been caused a great deal of stress when he found out that he had to
repay this loan from the proceeds of his house sale  and that meant his plans had to
change. I dont consider that Arrow is responsible for that. There has been limited contact
with Mr H over the years. And I dont see how he could reasonably have understood that the
loan had been repaid. In saying that I have found that if Arrow had acted fairly the balance
Mr H would have had to repay would have been lower. That may have given him more
options. So I think that Arrows actions  or lack of them  have caused Mr H some distress
and inconvenience. But a large part of that is the fact he had the secured loan in the first
place. In view of that I consider Arrow should pay Mr H £200 for any distress and
inconvenience he has suffered as a direct result of its acts or omissions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Arrow Global Limited should:
Refund all of the interest it applied to Mr Hs loan from 5 December 2016 until date of 
settlement.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from the date the mortgage was 
repaid until date of settlement. If Arrow considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Pay Mr H directly £200 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman