DRN-3866535
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
They say that Barclays didnt do enough to protect them from being victims of a scam and 
would like Barclays to refund them the money they have lost as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B came across an advert online for investments in cryptocurrency, supposedly 
endorsed by a well-known TV personality.
After this, contact was made with A (now known to be a scammer) and they were 
persuaded to invest. Two payments were made, of £1,000 and £3,000. An earlier payment 
was also made via Mr Bs credit card, but this is not included in this complaint as the 
scammer returned some money to Mr B, and so does not form part of the loss.
Mr B attempted to make a further payment of £4,000 but this was blocked by Barclays.
When Mr and Mrs B realised they had been victims of a scam, they reported this to Barclays 
and made a complaint. Barclays did not uphold their complaint. They then brought their 
complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator initially thought the complaint should be upheld  but after a challenge from 
Barclays changed their mind and didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs B were not happy with the outcome now reached, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, for materially the 
same reasons as out investigator. I know that Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed by this 
 and that they are very angry the initial view given by our Investigator was overturned.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B feels so aggrieved by the situation they find themselves 
in, after initially being told they would be getting the money back they lost to the scam. 
However, our complaints process allows either party to challenge a view, or provide new 
evidence which can sometimes effect the outcome that is reached. It is not until a final 
decision is made that the outcome cannot be further challenged.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a lot of detail and commentary in support of their complaint. I 
may not comment on everything they have said but will focus on the main points of the 
complaint, but I would like to reassure them that I have reviewed their file in full.
I will now explain why I dont think that their complaint should be upheld.
Were Mr and Mrs B the victims of a scam? 
I dont think it is in dispute here that Mr and Mrs B have been the victims of a scam. They 
were persuaded to download software onto their computer and were pressured to part with 
more and more money by the scammers  but when they wanted to close their account, the 
supposed capital and profits were lost. They were then offered the opportunity to pay 
further funds to retrieve their lost money.
I understand that Mr B also thinks that a rogue account manager made malicious trades on 
his trading account and that this is how the money was lost. But this is very unlikely. 
Scammers use sophisticated technology to mimic a trading platform and the numbers seen 
by the victim of a scam are pure fiction, inputted by the scammers themselves. The funds 
were lost the moment the crypto Mr and Mrs B purchased was transferred to a crypto-wallet 
outside of their control, and the supposed trades Mr B thought he could see never actually 
took place, but were fabricated in order to persuade a victim into the validity of the scam and 
to invest further.
Did Mr and Mrs B authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr and Mrs B arent liable for 
payments they didnt authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep their personalised security details safe.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B authorised the payments in question here. Mr B spoke with 
Barclays and confirmed that it was him making the payments. I understand that Mr and 
Mrs B had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Barclays to make the payments but 
while they never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact 
that they authorised them and are therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam.
The payments were made via online banking directly to P  the provider of the crypto. I 
understand that Barclays contacted P in order to try and recover the funds, but this was 
denied by P. This was because P is a legitimate company and provided the services Mr and 
Mrs B asked of it - the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet 
of Mr and Mrs Bs choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is 
therefore a separate matter.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented some 
or all of the payments Mr and Mrs B made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr and Mrs B authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, 
they are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks 
are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr and Mrs B and the payments in 
question here.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B initially wanted to transfer £4,000 to P  but after a 
conversation with Barclays decided to send a lower amount of £1,000 (the first payment Im 
considering as part of this decision).
Barclays blocked this payment, and the payment of £3,000 and spoke with Mr B. Although 
Barclays spoke about scams in general with Mr B, Im not persuaded it went far enough in 
exploring the nature of the payments, or in the questions it asked Mr B. While it did warn 
Mr B in general terms about scams and warned him that his money may not be recoverable 
once payment had been made, it could have asked more questions than it did.
However, Im not persuaded that even if Barclays had asked more questions and provided a 
meaningful warning to Mr B that this would have prevented the payments being made. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs B went on to try and make a further payment of £4,000 to P, and this was again 
blocked by Barclays. This time, he was told by Barclays that it was very likely he was being 
scammed, and that he needed to visit a branch with identification. This is the highest level of 
intervention. 
When Mr B visited the branch, he was told again that it was very likely he was the victim of a 
scam, and that Barclays would not process the payment for him. I understand that Mr B feels 
that the interaction with the branch was hostile. Mr B left the branch without completing the 
payment.
However, a few weeks later, Mr B called Barclays again, as he still wanted to make the 
payment of £4,000, despite by this time being given a clear warning by Barclays that he was 
extremely likely being scammed. The notes from this interaction show Mr B remained 
adamant that he was not being scammed.
Ultimately the payment for £4,000 was not completed. Mr B says that he had become fed up 
with the hassle of trying to make the payment  but not that he had been convinced he was being scammed. Indeed, he didnt report that he thought he had been the victim of a scam 
until several months later. 
I think that this later interaction shows that even if Barclays had provided a meaningful 
warning at the initial payment of £1,000 Mr B would still have wanted to proceed. And as 
such, he would still have made the payments that he did.
I know that Mr B has said that had Barclays frozen his account when he tried to make the 
payments, as it did when he tried to pay the £4,000, the would not have been able to 
complete the transaction, but I wouldnt necessarily expect Barclays to have frozen the 
account at this point  just to question him more thoroughly. 
I dont blame Mr and Mrs B for what happened here, they had obviously been convinced of 
the scammers legitimacy, but it does seem that even a very clear warning from Barclays 
wouldnt have likely dissuaded him from this belief.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs B and the situation they now find 
themselves in. They been the victim of a wicked and cruel scam. This is not in dispute. 
However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not Barclays. 
And I cant ask Barclays to refund this loss when I think Mr B would have made the 
payments regardless of the warnings given.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman