DRN-2814768
The complaint
Mr M complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) havent 
accepted a claim he made on his motor insurance policy for the theft of the insured vehicle.
Any reference I have made to Markerstudy also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M took out a temporary cover insurance policy with Markerstudy on 17 November 2018  
the policy was due to run until 15 December 2018. On 11 December 2018, Mr M reported 
the car stolen. The car belonged to his brother, and Mr M was using it while it was being 
prepared for sale.  Mr M says he drove to his friends and parked it outside their house in the 
evening. The last time he saw the car was at around 11pm and then when he woke up to 
drive it to work the next day it was missing. 
Before Markerstudy would continue to assess the claim, it asked Mr M to send a V5 
document and the keys for the car. Both Mr M and his brother had each been in possession 
of a key for the insured car. Mr M sent the keys to Markerstudy, but when Markerstudy went 
to examine the keys, it noticed that the key blades were missing from each key.
Mr M maintains that he sent the keys to Markerstudy with the blades inside. He says that the 
only explanation for the loss of the blades is if they were lost in transit, or they had been lost 
by someone at Markerstudy  and potentially in an attempt to refuse to pay out on the claim.
Mr M also had concerns about the valuation of his vehicle. And wanted this service to 
investigate this matter. 
Markerstudy havent upheld Mr Ms complaint or validated the claim. It said it wont do this 
until it receives the key blades. It declined to comment on the valuation of Mr Ms car, given 
that it hadnt yet agreed to validate the claim.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think that Markerstudy were able to determine that the car hadnt been stolen without the use 
of the keys without it receiving the keys with the blades. The investigator thought that non-
receipt of the keys with the blades was material in this case and so Marketstudy had fairly 
declined to validate the claim. The investigator also declined to comment on the valuation of 
the car  this was because Markerstudy hadnt agreed to pay out on the claim, and so it 
hadnt made a decision on the valuation.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he said that it was more likely that the key blades had been 
lost while they were in Markerstudys possession.  
Because Mr M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Essentially, the outcome of this complaint and Mr Ms claim hangs on the whereabouts of the 
missing key blades.
Mr M has provided this service with photos of both keys before he sent them to Markerstudy. 
He has also sent a photo with the front of the key opened so the key blades are visible. It 
isnt clear why Mr M opened the key and took a photo of the blades to prove that they were 
inside before they were even lost. But nevertheless, Im satisfied that the photo shows that 
the key fobs did at one point have a key blade in them. But the photos alone dont satisfy me 
that the keys were sent with the blades, or that the blades photographed inside the keys 
belonged to the insured vehicle. 
Markerstudy says it wont validate the claim without having received the key blades. I can 
understand why it wouldnt do this. It would need to see the blades so it could be persuaded 
that the keys hadnt been used during the theft of the vehicle. Every insurer needs to take 
steps to assess what has happened in the circumstances of a claim. And I think its 
reasonable of Marketstudy to request any relevant information or evidence it needs in order 
to investigate matters. I agree that the key blades are material in its decision to accept or 
reject the claim. So, Im satisfied with its decision to not continue with the claim without them.
I can understand that this situation puts Mr M in a difficult position. Mr M has taken a picture 
of the keys prior to posting and has obtained proof of postage. This doesnt prove that the 
key blades were included in the package, but there isnt much more that he could have 
reasonably done to prove they were sent, if they were sent. Equally, it would be difficult for 
Mr M to prove that he doesnt have them in his possession. But, for the reasons I will go on 
to explain below, I dont think it likely Markerstudy received the key fobs with the blades 
inside.
The key blades themselves sit inside a compartment within the key fob. In order for the 
blades to be removed from the fob, the key would need to be opened up and the blades 
manually removed. Given the process to remove the blades from the fob, I dont think its 
likely the key blades could have fallen or slipped out of the keys. Even if I accept this is 
possible, I think its highly unlikely to have happened to both key blades.
Markerstudy says that if the package had been received and they noticed something 
unusual with the contents, for example, if the front of the key had come off, it would have 
made a note of this on its systems. Ive read all of the notes relating to Mr Ms case, and I 
havent seen anything that leads me to think that the fobs had arrived damaged in anyway. 
So, I think this likely rules out any loss in transit. It would be highly unusual for both key 
blades to have made it outside of the keys themselves and then slipped out of a sealed 
parcel. So, I think it likely that Marketstudy received the keys as they were sent by Mr M. 
Ive asked Markerstudy a number of questions about its normal process when it receives 
keys onto its premises. Having done so, Im satisfied that its unlikely it lost the key blades. 
When it received the keys, they were transferred internally, so not posted, to a specialist 
team who placed the key fobs onto its internal reader system. The reader checked that the 
fob is genuine and that the fobs were electronically working. There was no need for the keys 
to be opened at this stage. And the internal reader wouldnt have picked up that the blades 
inside the keys were missing.
Markerstudy tell me that once the keys had been scanned and read, they were safely stored. 
At no point would the keys have been packaged and sent elsewhere. Once the keys were received, read and stored, they were requested back from storage and manually handed to 
the file handler for examination, and this is where the key blades were discovered to be 
missing.
Opening the keys to check the blades seems to be the final stage in its process of checking 
the key  Markerstudy say it wouldnt have had any reason to open the keys up prior to this. 
So there doesnt seem to be any stage in its process where the key blades could reasonably 
have been lost. And I find it less likely that both blades could have been lost.
On balance, based on everything Ive read and been told, I dont think Markerstudy has lost 
the keys blades  and I dont think its likely it received them along with the fobs. With this in 
mind, I dont think Markerstudys decision to not validate the claim without the keys blades is 
an unfair one. And so, I wont be asking it to do anything more for Mr M.
If Mr M does find the key blades, then I think it would be fair of Markerstudy to reassess the 
claim on this basis. 
As our investigator has said, it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to consider Mr Ms 
complaint about the valuation of the car. Markerstudy hasnt made Mr M a settlement offer 
because it hasnt validated the claim. And so, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a 
finding as to whether a potential valuation was or wasnt fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman