DRN-1312885
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his credit 
card.
What happened
In July 2014, Mr K had a credit card and a current account with HSBC. The credit card had a 
credit limit of £8,500, and in that month HSBC offered to increase the limit to £9,500, to take 
effect a month later. Mr K accepted that increase, but later that year he entered a repayment 
plan arranged by a debt advice charity. HSBC froze his interest and charges. The account 
was closed in 2015 (without being defaulted), and in January 2019 HSBC accepted a partial 
settlement. Meanwhile, in December 2018, Mr K complained to HSBC about the limit 
increase. He said hed had a gambling addiction, and that he couldnt afford the limit 
increase and should not have been offered it. In June 2019, he brought this complaint to our 
Service.
HSBC said it hadnt known about Mr Ks gambling addiction, and it hadnt known he was in 
financial difficulties until it was contacted by the debt charity about the repayment plan in 
December 2014. It said it had carried out internal credit scoring checks, but the details of 
how this is done are commercially sensitive and could not be disclosed.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that as Mr K had been making more 
than his minimum payments, and had made his payments on time, HSBC would not have 
realised that he was in financial difficulty. Once HSBC had been made aware of the problem, 
it had taken appropriate action.
Mr K said that he had been paying his credit card from his HSBC current account, which had 
been overdrawn. He said HSBC should have realised this. The investigator did not change 
his mind, as he didnt think it would be reasonable to expect HSBC to check the origin of 
every repayment. So Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a banks customer is in financial difficulties, it is his responsibility to tell his bank. Once 
aware of the problem, the banks duty is to treat the customer positively and sympathetically, 
and also to take this information into account when considering whether to lend to him or to 
increase an existing credit limit. If the customer does not tell the bank  and its not in 
dispute that Mr K didnt tell HSBC about his gambling addiction until the end of 2014  then 
the bank wont necessarily pick up on the problem anyway. It will depend on what evidence 
is available to it.
I have had regard to the UK Card Associations 2011 guidelines, Credit Card Limit 
Increases. It says that before offering a credit limit increase, a lender should check its 
customers credit file and at least one of the three following matters: the customers income 
and expenditure, how he has managed his finances in the past, and internal credit scoring 
techniques. I accept that HSBC carried out internal credit scoring techniques and checked 
his credit file.
The guidelines go on to set out four situations where a credit limit should not be increased. 
Three of these are self-evidently not relevant to Mr Ks case. The other one is Where the 
balance currently exceeds the credit limit. Between 30 May and 3 July 2014, Mr Ks account 
was over its limit by about £86, and HSBCs letter offering him a credit limit increase was 
dated 1 July. So technically this should not have happened, but I think that was a harmless 
mistake, because on 3 July Mr K made a payment of £150, which brought his balance below 
the limit again, where it remained until August, when the limit increase took effect. That was 
the first time in 2014 that Mr Ks balance was above the limit.
In every month from January to August that year, Mr K made more than the minimum 
payments. In fact, he had a direct debit set up to pay his minimum payments, and then he 
made additional payments on top  usually hundreds of pounds, and sometimes thousands. 
So apart from the four days when he exceeded his limit by a small amount, he was 
maintaining this account well. If HSBC had offered him a limit increase on 29 May, or 4 July, 
or any other day in 2014 except on the days between those dates, then it would have been 
complying with the guidelines. So the fact that its letter happened to be sent on 1 July is 
unfortunate, but is not so serious that it would be fair to uphold this complaint on that basis.
The guidelines also list eight risk indicators which might show signs that a customer is in 
financial difficulties, and one of these is Problems in respect of other accounts held across a 
group relationship, such as a current account. Mr K has argued that his HSBC current 
account was overdrawn, and that he was paying his credit card from this account. He says 
HSBC should have realised that, because it administered both accounts. (The overdraft 
would also have been reported on his credit file, so HSBC should have seen it, even if the 
account had been with another bank.)
I have seen Mr Ks bank statements, and he was continually overdrawn, usually by over 
£3,000. That could indicate financial problems, but not necessarily, because he was also 
maintaining that account too. The guidelines go on to say It is important to note that, in 
isolation, these [risk indicators] may not in fact be indicators that a customer is showing 
signs of financial difficulties. (Exceeding a credit limit is another indicator, but for the 
reasons I have already explained, that was very brief and out of character, so I think the 
overdraft can reasonably be treated as an isolated risk indicator.)
I have had regard to the Lending Code, issued by the UK Cards Association and other 
bodies in 2011. It says that once a lender realises that its customer is in financial difficulties, 
it should pro-actively contact the customer, and the Code sets out some examples of signs 
that this may be the case. These include regular unarranged overdrafts, regularly exceeding 
an arranged overdraft limit, regularly asking for increased limits, and dependence on 
unauthorised overdrafts. But having an arranged overdraft and staying within the limit wasnt 
on that list. So I dont think that this is the sort of problem which was envisaged by the UK 
Cards Association when it wrote the guidelines I referred to earlier.
Taking the guidelines and the Code into account, I dont think HSBC should have realised 
from the information available to it that Mr K was in financial difficulty, or that he had a 
gambling addiction, until he told it. That was after it increased the credit limit on his card, and 
I dont think it was entirely unreasonable of HSBC to do that. HSBCs breach of the 
guidelines was a minor one, and not one which would have happened if HSBC had offered 
the increase two days later, or two days earlier.My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman