DRN-3267756
The complaint
Mr W says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal pension funds into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and to facilitate investment in overseas property was unsuitable.
Mr W is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
MRL says Mr W was introduced to Insight through his mortgage broker (who had an 
association with the Insight Group, and other businesses potentially with an interest in the 
resulting transaction).
Mr W wanted advice about his pension arrangements.
Insight completed a confidential financial review with Mr W in February 2009. It gathered 
information about his circumstances, objectives and his risk appetite. A suitability report it 
prepared for him on 6 July 2009 identified his objectives in the following terms:
A review of your existing retirement plans. This is to maximise the potential benefits that you 
could receive in retirement. We agreed to consider the merits of continuing with your existing 
plan unaltered, the option of a switch of funds on the existing plan, or a transfer of the funds 
and any future contributions to another provider, with the potential to produce a better 
performance.
We previously discussed and agreed a transfer of your existing Personal Pension Funds to 
another provider, Selestia, however your preference now is to pursue a different option as 
outlined below.
A review of your existing pension plans to enable you to purchase a commercial property 
through your pension funds you already have in place.
Following discussions which you have had with your mortgage broker you are keen to 
purchase a property in Cape Verde for commercial reasons and you have been referred to 
me to discuss the possibility of utilising your personal retirement funds to facilitate this 
property acquisition.
Ultimately, Mr W was persuaded to switch his personal pension funds into a Rowanmoor 
SIPP and to invest in the Cape Verde property. A list of transactions from his SIPP shows 
the L&G funds of around £60,000 were switched into his new pension plan on 20 July 2009. 
Insights fees were paid a few days later. And on 28 July 2009 £52,362 was paid from his 
SIPP to purchase an interest in the commercial property.
MRL wrote to Insight in December 2018 to raise a complaint on his behalf about what had 
happened in 2009. It said the advice hed received to transfer his personal pension into a 
SIPP; and to invest the funds into the Cape Verde development had been unsuitable. It 
said he had a low tolerance for risk and a limited capacity for loss. It said the investment 
was inappropriately concentrated in one asset.
MRL said that because of Insights failings Mr W has suffered financial detriment. His 
pension fund is illiquid, and he cant sell the property. Its value is uncertain and appears to 
be significantly less than the money he invested.
Insight responded to MRL in July 2020. It said Mr W had brought his complaint too late for it 
to be considered by this Service.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr W s complaint
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which determine which complaints can be considered 
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include the time limits by 
which complaints must be made. The relevant DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became 
aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had 
cause for complaint; unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas the result of exceptional circumstances
Its not disputed that the event - the advice in 2009 for Mr W to transfer his pension funds 
into a SIPP enabling the investment in overseas property - took place more than six years 
before he first complained in 2018. But Insight says he also became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of cause to complain more than three years prior to 
this.
An Ombudsman has already investigated whether we have jurisdiction on Mr W s case 
and concluded we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again and I 
wont be rehearsing all the arguments she made, but Ive reached the same conclusion.
Insight raised the issue of Mr W consolidating his interests in Cape Verde in late 2014 or 
early 2015, saying that this shouldve made him aware there was a problem with the 
investment. In the circumstances of Mr W s case I dont think this is a telling point.
I understand that clients of The Resort Group (TRG) like Mr W were informed about certain 
options for financing the residual balance of their investments in Cape Verde, which 
appear to have been ruled out a few years later. But I dont think dealing with the financing 
due on Mr Ws property - which appears was resolved to his satisfaction - wouldve alerted 
him to the problem hes raised.
Indeed, Mr W sought advice from Insight about what was happening in 2014/2015 and 
Insights response was reassuring:
 The SIPP itself is regulated and that is the vehicle I recommended to facilitate the Cape 
Verde property.  Should you be worried?  not at all especially as the Dundas Beach 
units are complete and part of a tourist site!! The risks were if the build had not completed 
and as an unregulated investment capital would have been at risk.
Theres a pattern of similar communications between Mr W and Insight. For example, 
when he enquired about income streams from his Cape Verde property, taking funds from 
his SIPP and selling his interest. I cant see these exchanges ought to have given him 
cause for complaint.Its only more recently that Mr Ws found out that hes unlikely to be able to sell his Cape 
Verde interest. And even if it were possible, it seems hes likely to face a substantial loss on 
his investment. I think this, together with continued disappointing rental income, has led to 
his complaint.
I havent seen anything on file which persuades me Mr W became aware, or reasonably 
ought to have become aware, he had cause for complaint more than three years before he 
did so in December 2018.
Mr W has made his complaint in time and I can consider it.
After the Ombudsmans decision confirming our jurisdiction, an Investigator looked into 
the merits of his complaint. He upheld it, identifying several failures in Insights advice and 
processes.
Insight refuted the Investigators findings and conclusions. For example, it says it didnt give 
Mr W advice about the investment in overseas property. It says hed already made that 
decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP provider to satisfy his objectives. It 
says it would class him as an insistent client.
Insight accepted that the Cape Verde investment was high risk. But it says Mr W had 
experience of property investment both in the UK and Turkey. It said he was comfortable 
taking such risks. It says even if it had recommended he shouldnt proceed with the switch 
of his pension, hed have gone ahead anyway. It also challenged the Investigators 
redress methodology.
So, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in 
December 2021. Both parties responded, but most of the arguments made were reiterations 
of matters Ive already considered. Where either party has raised an issue that I think is 
usefully addressed, Ill set out my findings and conclusions in respect of these in this final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Insight for Mr W. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook contains 
eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their personal pension, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr W s best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the FCA, then the Financial Services Authority, published a checklist for pension 
switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it thought should be 
focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. Although issued after the advice given to Mr W, this report was a reiteration 
of existing guidance.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated collective investment scheme).
Even if the Cape Verde investment wasnt technically a UCIS, it is unregulated and shares 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, it being illiquid and 
subject to counter-party and development risks. So, I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr W, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
Did Insight adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Insight met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information from Mr W to understand essential facts about him. In order 
to advise him to switch his personal pension into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and facilitate 
investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr W s investment objectives 
(including his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted 
to invest for).
-Mr W was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr W had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks 
involved.
Based on the available evidence, Insight didnt meet these obligations.
At the time the suitability report was completed, Mr W was 55 years old, with 10 years until 
retirement. He was divorced with three financially independent children. He was employed with an annual income of around £36,000. He owned his home which was worth 
approximately £130,000. His outstanding mortgage was £60,000.
Mr W had three Buy to Let (BTL) properties, with mortgages which were funded by the rental 
income. He also had two off-plan overseas properties in Turkey, but no specific details were 
recorded.
Mr W had a personal pension with Legal & General (L&G), its recorded this had a total fund 
transfer value of just over £55,000. He was making gross monthly contributions of about 
£145. It was noted that his wife was entitled to a third of the income generated by this plan. 
He was also a member of the Civil Service Pension Scheme and had accrued eight years 
qualifying service. He had no other pension provision.
The first thing Id observe is that there was another beneficiary of Mr Ws L&G personal 
pension. It seems there mayve been a pension sharing order (PSO) in place. This is an 
order made by a court setting out what percentage of the value of a persons pension is to 
be transferred to the former spouse. In light of Insights knowledge of the situation, Ive not 
seen how his former partners interests were given due regard in its advice process.
Reviewing the fact-find that took place in February 2009, I can see when asked to indicate 
his general financial objectives, Mr Ws singular priority was to maintain his standard of living 
in retirement.
Mr W s attitude to risk was recorded as medium. The short definition provided for this 
category was as follows:
You are prepared to accept a medium degree of risk, in that your investments may fall in 
value as well as rise, with potential for higher returns over the long-term.
Insight has provided part of the risk assessment exercise it undertook. In that I can see Mr W 
confirmed a 10-year investment horizon. And that he was investing less than 25% of his total 
assets (excluding his home).
Insights suitability report for Mr W also highlighted some of the particular risks he was taking 
on. It noted hed decided to buy the Cape Verde property and that this meant Rowanmoor 
was the only SIPP provider allowing such an investment. It noted his responsibility for 
ensuring hed be able to find adequate resources in the future to complete his purchase. And 
it identified the developer could go out of business.
Ive thought about Insights approach to understanding Mr Ws risk outlook. I note in its 
response to the Investigators view it said:
Yes the [Cape Verde] investment was high risk, however all the other investments he had 
made, be it in the UK buy to let market or in his overseas properties, were all high risk.
Whatever way you look at it be it UK or overseas, buy to let / holiday let properties are high 
risk, given that property prices rise and fall depending on market conditions and would all be 
classed as high risk investments.
Yes the overseas investment was exposed to a currency exchange risk, but so were the 
other overseas properties he held outside of the plan, I cannot see there is any difference 
here?
Whilst the funds were placed in a single asset class, he was fully experienced in this asset 
class be it property in the UK or overseas, so again was aware of this type of asset and 
wished to proceed with the said investment.Whilst Mr Ws ATR was recorded as medium it is evident from his other property 
investments that he was/is comfortable with high risk investments.
Insight has repeated some of these arguments in its response to my provision decision. But 
it hasnt changed my mind.
Insight knew Mr Ws attitude to risk in relation to his pension arrangements was medium. It 
had carried out the assessment which found this. It evidently also appreciated that investing 
in overseas commercial property was high risk. It also knew he was already heavily exposed 
to property holdings in the UK and Turkey.
Yet Insight failed to advise Mr W without equivocation  as it was required to do  that he 
shouldnt be placing his pension funds in a vehicle that was well above his appetite for risk. 
Insight was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr W about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for a retirement income.
It was Insights role to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it met these obligations.
Considering Mr Ws main objective, to maintain his living standard in retirement. Leaving 
aside what we know in hindsight about the Cape Verde investment, I have various concerns 
about Insights approach.
Theres no record of what income Mr W would need in retirement. Ive seen no evidence of 
an attempt by Insight to get to the bottom of this key question. I think this wouldve been 
important to his being able to take an informed decision about what to do with his personal 
pension funds.
Mr W had some experience of investing in property, but that doesnt make him an expert in 
pensions and retirement planning, or even investing more generally. Indeed, his approach 
appears to have been to put most of his eggs in one basket. A lack of diversification was 
itself a risky approach and shouldve been advised on by Insight.
The FCA illustration of good practice was to allow for perhaps around 5% of someones 
funds to be invested in assets like this (where they are experienced investors). Mr Ws Cape 
Verde property consumed 100% of his available SIPP fund.
Its clear Mr W was referred to Insight for advice about moving his personal pension to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew what he was 
contemplating, but effectively says it wasn't responsible for the investment advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr W. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable. It couldnt do this without 
considering the suitability of the investments being proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January 2013. 
And, as Ive already stated, although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr W, it 
wasnt new guidance; it was the regulator re-stating the position.Insight couldnt ignore Mr W s intention of investing in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances it should have said so, rather than presuming that the 
switch was necessary for this to happen. It had a duty to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction, not simply limit its advice to choosing the best SIPP provider.
Mr W was transferring his pension funds to the SIPP for investment in overseas property. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by Insight in terms of understanding his capacity to 
withstand losses. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity issues. And theres no 
evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight shouldve provided Mr W with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the 
switch of his pension funds into the Rowanmoor SIPP, the purpose of which was to invest all 
his pension plan funds into unregulated overseas property. It failed to do this. 
Instead, Insight made arrangements for the switch of Mr W s personal pension plans into 
the SIPP. It signed off the applications using its authorisation details. It transmitted the 
necessary applications. In doing so, it led Rowanmoor to believe Mr W had been properly 
advised on the transaction.
In doing all this, Insight was aware Mr W was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr W might 
have difficulty getting access to his pension funds. The investment was specialised, out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation uncertainty.
Insight argued that it treated Mr W as an insistent client:
[Mr W] had experience in this type of investment so would have been fully aware of the 
risks and requirements of such an investment. As it was his decision and nothing to do with 
Insight, we would class him as an insistent client, at the time there was very limited FCA 
guidance. COBS was not updated and revised to include full reference to insistent clients 
until July 2019.
Ive thought carefully about what Insight has said here. The actual provisions from the FCA 
rule book it referred to is COBS 9.5A Additional guidance for firms with insistent clients. This 
was first included from January 2018. The problem for Insight is that it was founded on 
existing requirements i.e. the Principles and other relevant provisions, which Ive already set 
out at some length earlier in this decision.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that he can understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
Mr W says he wasnt an insistent client. And Insight hasnt satisfied me that at the time of the 
advice it treated him as such. Certainly not in a way that could be considered fair. And I 
havent seen anything that wouldve put him on notice of this. I invited Insight to produce any evidence to support the case it was making here as part of its final submission - it hasnt 
done so.
Overall, I think Insight shouldve provided Mr W with an explicit recommendation not to 
proceed with the switch of funds from his L&G personal pension into the Rowanmoor SIPP, 
the purpose of which was to invest in a high-risk overseas commercial property. I say this 
because of what it knew about his circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk.
Instead, Insight recommended the switch. In doing this, it was aware Mr W was being 
exposed to significant risks in the investment it was facilitating. It knew the Cape Verde 
holding could be illiquid, meaning he might have difficulty getting access to his pension 
funds. The investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it 
was subject to valuation uncertainty.
I think that if Insight had given Mr W appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the switch. I say this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice then 
go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Ws pension funds could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to him. As such I think Insight failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing 
him with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Insight and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr W was divorced and it seems his former partner was entitled to a share of the income 
generated from his L&G pension. So, in relation to any redress payable, I must make clear 
that any obligations he has in relation to the divorce settlement and any entitlements his 
former partner had or may have will need to be addressed.
Mr W will need to provide proper undertakings to Insight in this regard, sufficient to give it 
comfort that it will not face a separate claim from his former wife in respect of the same 
redress awarded.
Mr W will need to take legal advice on these matters.
Mr W needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in now - or as close to that as 
reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold Insight Financial 
Associates Limited responsible for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr W wouldve switched funds from 
his L&G personal pension into the Rowanmoor SIPP and the Cape Verde investment, and 
so he wouldnt have suffered the illiquidity, value uncertainty and financial loss hes now 
facing.
The Investigator thought redress should encompass a further transaction Mr W entered for a 
second Cape Verde property a year after the advice hed received from Insight to switch his 
pension. I understand he reserved this in June 2010 and paid a deposit of around £37,000 in 
February 2011. These funds were from an inheritance.
I disagreed with the Investigator. Insights advice from 2009 was focussed on his pension 
arrangements at that time. So, it concerned the funds from his L&G personal pension and 
the ongoing pension contributions he made to it. This is the ambit of my decision.Mr W asked me to reconsider this aspect of my decision, he says he wouldnt have 
purchased a second Cape Verde property on his own volition without advice and a 
recommendation from Insight. It said it hadnt been involved in the second transaction.
I asked Mr W to provide any further evidence he had about his second purchase and 
Insights involvement. For example, if he received a recommendation from Insight he 
shouldve received a report or letter and its highly likely hed have been charged for an 
advice service. Mr W hasnt been able to do so.
And Ive not seen any other evidence that Insight was involved in providing advice to Mr W in 
relation to how he should invest his inheritance. So, based on the information provided, I 
havent changed my mind on this matter. My decision is focussed on Insights pension 
advice from 2009.
Mr W has also sought clarification about outgoings from his SIPP account to cover various 
fees and charges. Generally, the redress methodology Ive set out below attempts to return 
him to the position he wouldve been in had the switch of his pension not taken place. And 
account would be taken of these matters.
However, matters are complicated in this case. Redress shouldnt cover fees and charges, 
or the appropriate proportion of these, which relate to matters Ive decided are outside the 
scope of my decision, for example costs arising from his decision to invest other monies in a 
second Cape Verde property.
In arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh all these matters. So, Insight 
Financial Associates Limited must put things right using the following approach:
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr W has suffered because of making the switch
Insight should obtain the notional value of Mr Ws L&G pension plan at the date of 
calculation, assuming he wouldve remained invested in the same funds. So, as if his plans 
hadnt been switched to the Rowanmoor SIPP.
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index - prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index - should be used as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that couldve been achieved if Mr W s pension had remained invested in his previous 
plans. Its also consistent with his assessed attitude to risk at the time of the event 
complained about.
Mr W has made withdrawals from his SIPP. Hes also made regular pension contributions. 
And hes received income. After confirming the detailed position, the value Insight obtains, or 
the calculations Insight makes should assume such adjustments would still have occurred 
and on the same dates.
In doing so, Insight will need to cater for the additional complexity arising from the 
consolidation of Mr Ws Cape Verde interests that happened in 2015. As Ive established it 
should focus on that proportion related to funds from his original pension switch and his 
ongoing pension contributions. It should exclude that element related to the separate 
investment he made in 2011.
So, for example, from the point of consolidation in 2015, any rental income received would 
need to be apportioned between the value attributable to the 2009 transaction (within the 
scope of this decision) and the 2011 investment (outside the scope of this decision).The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr W s 
former personal pension plan and the equivalent current value of his SIPP including any 
investments and cash held (see step 2), will be his basic financial loss that Insight needs to 
redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy the appropriate share of any investments which cannot 
currently be redeemed
To close Mr W s SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Insight should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as 
a commercial value for the appropriate share of the investments held and Insight can then 
pay this to take part-ownership.
If Insight is unwilling or unable to purchase the appropriate share, the value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight has 
compensated Mr W fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from its 
share of the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges 
on the amount he may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able 
to access from the SIPP. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr W s SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax
If compensation is paid into Mr W s SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension plan.
If paying compensation into Mr W s SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and Insight takes on his investment, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W s actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr W wouldve been able to take TFC - taking into account TFC he has 
already drawn - as appropriate, the reduction should only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Insight should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date of calculation to the date 
of payment at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Insight deducts tax it 
should provide Mr W with a tax certificate.
Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mr W in a clear format.
4. SIPP fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr W s SIPP, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Insight should pay him an amount equivalent to five years of 
future fees. This should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP.5. Trouble and upset
Mr W was worried when he found out there were problems with his pension arrangements. 
He then had to spend time trying to get things sorted. In recognition of this Insight should 
pay him £200 for the trouble and upset its caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. As such, I require 
Insight Financial Associates Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman