DRN-1909205
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc breached his personal data rights by sending his 
banking information to others.
What happened
Mr M was contacted by the department for work and pensions (DWP) who had significant 
information about his personal finances which he believes must have come from Lloyds.
Lloyds have said they have no record of providing Mr M's personal banking information to 
the DWP or anyone else, other than receiving a request from a debt charity which was 
helping Mr M with his finances.
Mr M has shown us a letter that Lloyds provided him that was addressed to the DWP. It gave 
some information about the balances in his account over the years. But this was provided at 
Mr M's request after he found out that the DWP had a lot of his personal information. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but didn't find that there was sufficient information to 
prove that it was more likely than not that Lloyds had disclosed Mr M's personal details. So, 
whilst she believed Mr M that the DWP had got hold of Mr M's personal information, there 
wasn't anything to show that this had come from Lloyds. She didn't recommend that Mr M's 
complaint was upheld.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman's review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr M has been having. None of this can 
have been easy for him and I can see why he's convinced that Lloyds have sent his personal 
information to the DWP. But I'm afraid that the evidence to prove that just isn't available. So I 
won't be upholding his complaint. I'll explain why.
I understand that Mr M had a conversation with the bank and was unhappy that he was 
being asked to prove that the bank had breached his personal data rights. The problem here 
is that Lloyds' records don't show that any information was sent to the DWP, or to anyone 
else. So I can see why the bank will have said Mr M would need to prove it. Whilst I can't 
really say that was unreasonable in the circumstances, I don't doubt that the bank officer 
could have phrased the request a little better though.
We've seen the bank's correspondence records back to 2017 and there's nothing in there to 
indicate that any correspondence went out to the DWP. Now, I of course can't be certain that 
Lloyds wasn't responsible for the information finding its way to the DWP. But, I have to work 
on the basis of what evidence there is to show that. And here there's nothing to prove that 
it's more likely than not that the information came from the bank.I can't really speculate how the DWP got the information. And they may have ways of 
accessing information without a customer's explicit consent. But here the bank's records 
don't show that the DWP contacted it for information or that it provided any. So I don't think 
that Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M here.
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for Mr M. And I do wholly accept his evidence 
that the DWP had the information and were asking him questions about it. But on the 
information available, I can't say that Lloyds was responsible for how it obtained that.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold Mr M's complaint. And I don't require that Lloyds Bank Plc 
needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman