DRN-3804726
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Skrill Limited (Skrill) after he asked it to
transfer some money. He says that Skrill is now pursuing him for a debt which he doesnt
owe and which has arisen because of a failing in Skrills transfer process.
What happened
Mr G holds an account with Skrill. Its an electronic money account which enables Mr G to
send and receive payments. In December 2019, he instructed Skrill to transfer funds to a
third party, using Skrills money transfer service. The funds were uploaded to his Skrill
account from his debit card, so that Skrill could transmit them to the recipient. Skrill sent Mr
G an email that day saying that the transfer had been sent successfully.
But the next day, Skrill sent him an email saying that the transfer had failed. It said the funds
had been returned because the bank details provided by Mr G were incorrect. Skrill refunded
the funds to Mr Gs debit card the following day. Mr G says he paid the recipient in cash
instead, a few days later.
In 2021, Mr G was contacted by a debt collection agency which Ill call L. L was acting on
behalf of Skrill and was seeking to recover payment from Mr G of an outstanding balance on
his account, which it said related to the above transfer.
Skrill says that the transfer was processed successfully in the end and the funds were sent
to the recipient. It appears that this happened in May 2021. Skrill says that the problem in
December 2019 was due to a technical issue with its processor which was later identified
and fixed, meaning that the payment was eventually able to go through. Skrill says that the
funds were debited from its account by the payment processor. But Skrill had already
refunded Mr Gs card, so it says it has paid the funds out twice. Skrill debited the funds from
Mr Gs account, giving it a negative balance. It says that Mr G owes £1,072 which is payable
immediately under its terms and conditions.
But Mr G says that the situation has arisen from a failing in Skrills system. He doesnt think
he owes the money but says hes being chased for a debt, causing him a great deal of
stress. He says that Skrill didnt contact him directly about the issue and the first he heard of
it was when he was contacted by L.
Skrill says its not obliged to contact customers about outstanding debts and that its entitled
to use debt collection agencies for this purpose. But it says it emailed Mr G in May 2021 to 
tell him his account had a negative balance.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2022 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. The parties have both accepted my provisional findings, so Im now making a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties accepted my provisional decision and I havent seen anything since I issued it 
which has changed my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im going to uphold 
this complaint and direct Skrill to take the steps proposed in my provisional decision. My 
reasons are set out below.
In December 2019. Mr G asked Skrill to transfer the funds for him. Skrill attempted to do so
but the transfer failed. In line with its Money Transfer terms and conditions, Skrill refunded
the amount of the transaction to Mr G. It told him at the time that the reason the transfer
failed was because he had provided incorrect account details. That wasnt the case - Skrill
later confirmed that the problem had been a technical issue with its processor. But I think it
was reasonable for Mr G to act on the information that Skrill gave him at the time, which was
that the payment wasnt successful and the funds were returned to him. I think any
reasonable person in his position would have thought that was the end of the matter.
I dont think he had any reason to think the transfer might still go through. It doesnt seem
that Skrill thought so either, as it returned the funds to Mr G. In the circumstances, I think it
was reasonable for Mr G to make other arrangements to pay the recipient.
Nearly 18 months later, Skrill debited Mr Gs account. It explained that the transfer had been
processed successfully, following the discovery and rectification of the processor error. I
dont think any customer in Mr Gs position would have expected the transaction to go
through after all that time, particularly if (a) theyd been told by Skrill (as Mr G had) that it
failed because theyd provided the wrong account details, and (b) theyd had the money
back from Skrill. Mr G relied on what Skrill told him at the time and had paid the recipient by
another method. If he now pays the funds into his Skrill account, he will have made the
payment twice. I dont think that would be fair, especially as the issue here seems to be
between Skrill and its payment partner  rather than anything to do with Mr G.
It seems as though the recipient may have been paid twice, so Ive asked Mr G about this.
He has explained that the recipient is a business overseas, local to where his family lives.
He says that the payment was for services provided by the business in 2019. Mr G says that,
when he found out in 2021 that the transfer had gone through, his family contacted the
business. It denied receiving two payments, so I cant see that Mr G or his family can do any
more here.
I understand that the technical issue which caused the problem here arose with the payment
processor, not Skrill. Skrill says it was entitled to use a payment partner to complete the
transfer and that its own obligations were complete once it had credited the funds to the
payment partner for onward transmission. It relies on clause 4.5 of its terms and conditions.
Mr G agreed to be bound by the terms when using the money transfer service. I accept
thats the case here, but strictly following terms like these wont always result in a fair
outcome in the individual circumstances of a complaint. In my view  thats whats happened
here. I dont think Mr G, or any reasonable person in his position, could have envisaged at
the time that he might suffer a loss that wasnt his fault nearly 18 months later and owe
money to Skrill because of an error made by its payment partner. I also think theres a
question over whether clause 4.5 applies here, given that Skrill says the full transfer amount
was returned to it on 12 December 2019.
Skrills terms and conditions say that it wont be liable for any disruption or impairment of
intermediary services. But this is only if the disruption or impairment is due to abnormal and
unforeseeable circumstances beyond Skrills reasonable control or the control of the
intermediary. I dont know whether that exclusion applies here because I dont have any
information about the processing error.But even if the facts mean that Skrill isnt liable to Mr G under its terms and conditions, I
dont think reliance on the terms and conditions alone leads to a fair outcome here.
I understand that the funds have been debited from Skrills bank account by the payment
processor, and this may have happened without any prior notice to Skrill. Skrill is out of
pocket as a result, but it doesnt automatically follow that it would be fair to seek recovery of
the funds from Mr G in the circumstances here. I dont think that would be a fair outcome and
I think Skrill needs to take up the issue with its payment processor instead.
I think the fair resolution to this complaint would be for Skrill to rectify Mr Gs account by
crediting it with £1,072. It should tell L that there is no debt outstanding and instruct L to stop
pursuing Mr G for payment. I think it should also ask L to write to Mr G to confirm there is no
debt due and that it wont be pursuing the matter any further.
Ive thought about whether Skrill also needs to pay some compensation to Mr G, bearing in
mind that the main cause of the problem here appears to originate from the payment
processor, not Skrill. But Skrill instructed L to pursue Mr G for a debt, which led to him
receiving letters of claim demanding payment and threatening court action. This happened
over a period of months, causing Mr G a great deal of stress and affecting his mental health.
Skrill is entitled to use debt collection agencies to recover money due to it. But, for the
reasons above, I dont think Mr G owes this money to Skrill.
When Mr G complained, I think Skrill missed the opportunity to review the situation
thoroughly and bring about a fair outcome. So, the contact from L and the threat of legal
action continued and Mr G had to pursue the complaint to this point to achieve a fair
resolution. That has added to the negative impact of the situation and I think Skrill should
pay Mr G compensation of £150 to reflect that.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Skrill Limited should:
credit Mr Gs account with the sum of £1,072.00;
tell L that there are no funds outstanding from Mr G and instruct L not to pursue Mr G
for payment;
instruct L to write to Mr G to confirm that he does not owe any funds to Skrill and that
it will not be pursuing the matter any further; and
pay Mr G compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman