DRN-2120416
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mr T says AXA mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In July 1996 Mr T took out a store card with PPI whilst he was out shopping. 
Among other things, Mr T said he had a long term health problem when he took out the PPI.
Our adjudicator looked into what happened when AXA sold this PPI and she upheld Mr Ts 
complaint. She didnt think Mr T wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made him 
aware that the policy wouldnt have covered accident and sickness claims for any health 
problem Mr T had when he bought it.
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. Its not in dispute that Mr T had the injury he 
mentioned. But AXA says that theres nothing to suggest the severity of Mr Ts condition 
following this injury and the prolonged affect it had on his ability to work at the point of sale 
or after. AXA doesnt believe that an injury of the type Mr T had was sufficient on its own for 
the policy to be unsuitable as it may have never affected him.
And AXA said that although Mr T had also been tested for a (different) seriously debilitating 
and life limiting condition that didnt mean he had that condition and further clarification was 
required about this.
Mr Ts complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mr T enough clear information about the PPI for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for him. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mr T.
Mr T told us that hed suffered an injury in 1990. He said that whilst he managed the 
resulting health problems this caused him with pain killers hed also had to take time off work 
from time to time. And he told us those issues were ongoing. 
It looks like the policy Mr T bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which he knew about, or ought to have known about, or for which he 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months immediately 
before the policy start date.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims for Mr Ts health problems resulting from the injury he had in 1990. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mr T. I say 
this because I think that his condition was serious enough to have already had an impact on 
him being able to do his job. 
And when he took out this PPI in 1996, I think Mr T might reasonably have expected that his 
health condition could potentially continue to have a significant impact on his day to day life 
and lead to him needing to take more time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to his attention as it shouldve done. And, 
if it had, I think its likely that Mr T wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
I agree more information is needed about the condition for which Mr T was tested before 
reaching any conclusions about this. 
But its not something that makes any overall difference to my decision. So I dont think 
I need say any more about this.
Based on all the information I've seen already, I think Mr T has lost out because of what AXA 
did wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. How 
it does this will depend on whether Mr Ts store card account is still active or has been 
closed.
I understand that the policy has already been cancelled (if not, the policy should be 
cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already).
If Mr Ts account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr T would owe on his store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr T owes and what he would have 
owed.If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mr T would have owed each month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T wouldve 
owed AXA something on his store card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA should tell Mr T what its done to work out A and B.
If Mr Ts account has been closed: 
A. AXA should find out how much Mr T would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr T owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr T would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr T would have owed each month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr T what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr T that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman