DRN-3720985
The complaint
Ms T complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly cancelled 
her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms T took out car insurance with AA via a price comparison website. Ms T was the 
policyholder with her husband as a named driver. 
AA carried out a validation check and asked for copies of Mr and Ms Ts driving licences. Mr 
Ts licence showed that he had two relevant speeding endorsements which had not been 
declared in the policy application. 
Ms T said that when she completed the online application form she mistakenly thought she 
was being asked whether her husband had any motoring convictions over the last three 
years. However, the question was about motoring convictions over the last five years, and so 
she failed to declare that he had two relevant speeding endorsements. 
AA cancelled the policy under S17 of its terms and conditions which it says allows it to 
cancel the policy with seven days notice if it has been provided with incorrect information. 
Ms T was issued with a pro-rata refund of the premium paid. 
Ms T complained to AA explaining that she had made an innocent mistake. She asked it to 
remove the policy cancellation from its records as she thought it was disproportionate and 
left her struggling to find alternative car insurance. 
AA didnt uphold the complaint. It didnt think that Ms T had deliberately tried to misrepresent 
her application as it accepted that she carried out enquiries with the named driver and was 
told that he had no convictions over three years old. However, AA say its question was clear 
and asked about the last five years, not three. 
Ms T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld as he thought that AA acted fairly when it cancelled the policy. 
AA then provided further information about the quotes Ms T had obtained online over 
different dates. One of the quotes had included the two driving convictions whereas others 
hadnt. Ms T said that both she and her husband had independently completed quotes which 
explained the differing information given. Ms T asked for her complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman as she thought the cancellation was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a complaint where there is a failure to disclose relevant information, I must 
first consider whether there has been a qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant law - 
it doesnt matter that AA hasnt dealt with it as a misrepresentation. The relevant law in this 
case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
AA say that it hasnt applied CIDRA as its policy wording clearly says that its entitled to 
cancel the policy where theres been a failure to correctly declare information. Ive read the 
policy, but I dont think it fair for AA to ignore the statutory approach in favour of its own 
terms and conditions. So CIDRA will be my starting point.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AA thinks that Ms T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation as she 
didnt declare her named drivers speeding convictions. It says that Ms T was asked a 
straightforward question which she answered incorrectly. 
Ms T accepts that she didnt disclose her named drivers speeding endorsements and Im 
satisfied that she should have and that she made a misrepresentation. Ive looked at the 
question Ms T was asked. It refers to all drivers on the policy and asks Have they had any 
driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past 5 
years. Ms T answered no  and says that she misread the question. I think the question is 
clear and although I accept she asked her husband about his endorsements, she didnt ask 
him about the full five years. I think this means Ms T failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
I now have to consider whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation, ie 
did it make a difference. AA has provided its underwriting criteria and said that had it known 
about the speeding endorsements at the outset, it would have offered insurance but at a 
higher premium. This means Im satisfied Ms Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Although AA hasnt dealt with this case as a misrepresentation under CIDRA, it has said that 
it didnt think Ms T had deliberately tried to misrepresent her application. I agree, but I do 
think she was careless. I say this because I think she simply didnt read the question 
correctly rather than it being a deliberate attempt to hide the endorsements. Ms T provided 
copies of both hers and her husbands driving licences to AA promptly when asked and I 
think it unlikely she would have done so had she deliberately or recklessly provided false 
information. 
Ive also considered the additional information provided by AA about other online quotes 
obtained and the convictions declared. Whilst I can see that there is some inconsistency, I 
accept the explanation that Mr T applied for the earlier quotes and that Ms T completed the 
quotes at the time her policy was due to expire. So, I dont think this shows that Ms T was 
deliberately providing inconsistent information.As Im satisfied Ms Ts misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions AA can take in accordance with CIDRA. As no claim has been made, CIDRA allows 
AA to ask for the higher premium, continue with the policy but pay any future claims on a 
proportional basis, or cancel the policy and refund the premiums on a pro-rata basis. 
AA says that it always cancels policies where there has been a misrepresentation of a 
conviction because it considers those who fail to disclose information to be a higher risk. 
CIDRA doesnt outline how an insurer should decide whether to leave a policy in force or to 
cancel it. This is entirely at AAs discretion and its not for me to tell an insurer how to assess 
risk or what risks it should cover. AA therefore wrote to Ms T telling her that the policy would 
be cancelled within 7 days and offered a pro-rata refund of the premium.
AA didnt apply CIDRA because it says the policy terms allow it to cancel the policy if 
information is not properly declared. Whilst I think it should have followed the approach in 
CIDRA as this takes precedence over the terms of the policy, the outcome would have been 
the same had it done so as CIDRA allows for cancellation of the policy. Im therefore 
satisfied on balance that AA acted reasonably when it cancelled Ms Ts policy.
Having a policy cancelled by an insurer can have a significant effect on a policyholder as Ms 
T has found out. AA says it hasnt added any markers to external databases in relation to the 
cancellation, but Ms T will still have to declare it if asked by future insurers. Ive considered 
whether it would have been fair for AA to have offered Ms T the opportunity of cancelling the 
policy herself. AA says that Ms T didnt ask for cancellation, and it wasnt something it would 
consider. Whilst Im sympathetic to Ms Ts position, CIDRA allows AA to cancel the policy 
and so I cant say that it was unreasonable for it to do so and to record this on its own 
database. 
I understand Ms T made a careless mistake thats had significant consequences and that it 
occurred at a stressful time for her and her family. However, for the reasons stated above, I 
dont think AA acted unreasonably when it cancelled the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman