DRN-3053156
The complaint
The estate of Ms P have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a
claim made under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P passed away. In March 2020 solicitors as the executor of Ms Ps estate obtained
unoccupied household insurance with Aviva. Ill refer to the solicitors as S for ease in my
decision.
Mrs H says she is a beneficiary of the estate of Ms P. In June 2020 she reported to S a small
leak of water coming down the side of an asbestos pipe in the garage of the property. S
asked Mrs H to contact Aviva on behalf of the estate. Mrs H dealt with the claim in terms of
communicating with Aviva, the contractors and arranging access to the property.
Aviva accepted it made errors from the outset. It said it should have dealt with the claim
under Trace and Access. So it should have instructed a contractor to identify the source of
the leak and make safe the asbestos pipe, but that it would be the estates responsibility to
arrange and pay for the repairs. However, Aviva didnt realise its error until a couple of
months later when the works were arranged. And following Mrs H and S complaint, agreed
to meet the costs of the replacement of the damaged pipe and settle the claim. Works were
completed in September 2020 and Aviva asked for an excess of £1,000 to be paid.
In order to remove and replace the damaged pipe, the existing bathroom fittings had to be
removed. After the pipe was replaced, the fittings were put back. Unfortunately in October
2020 Mrs H discovered water damage to the property. Aviva dealt with the repairs to put this
right. This damage was caused by a failure by a contractor to tighten a valve under the bath
when putting it back.
Mrs H was unhappy that the contractor asked for the excess payment of £1,000 to be paid.
Mrs H said the policy showed that the standard excess was £175. She didnt think the higher
excess was due for an escape of water claim  because she said the only escape of water
damage caused was by the contractor. Mrs H received conflicting information from Aviva as
to the amount of excess owed.
In response to the complaint, Aviva said the correct excess was due in line with the policy.
But it didnt specify what that was. Aviva offered to pay £300 compensation for the
inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused. Mrs H says Aviva didnt pay this due to
the dispute as to the excess it said was owed.
Mrs H remained unhappy and S with Mrs H brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator explained that the Grant of Probate showed that Mrs H wasnt an executor
of the estate  and so she wasnt an eligible complainant. This meant that we could not
consider the distress and inconvenience she says Aviva caused her.
The investigator explained that we could consider the complaint on behalf of S as the
executor of the estate and the policyholder for the insurance policy with Aviva - as they are
an eligible complainant. But they cannot be compensated for distress. On this basis, he gave
his findings to both Mrs H and S.
The investigator was satisfied that the compensation of £300 for inconvenience was
reasonable. And he thought the excess for an escape of water claim of £1,000 was correctly
owed as set out under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs H didnt agree. Shes very disappointed that we cannot consider the emotional distress
and anxiety the impact of Avivas handling of the claim has had on her. She says Aviva
advised the correct excess owed was £250. This isnt set out anywhere on the policy
schedule. She accepts an excess is payable, but not £1,000 for an escape of water.
Mrs H says there was no damage caused by or resulting from an escape of water and the
estate did not claim for such damage. She says when water was turned on, water began to
trickle down the side of the pipe and stopped when the water was turned off. She said there
was a tiny puddle of water on the concrete floor of the garage.
Mrs H says the pipe wasnt damaged by an escape of water.
So Mrs H believes the correct excess payable is the one set out on the policy schedule at
£175. S also disagreed and supported Mrs Hs complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2021. I thought Aviva should only charge an 
excess of £175. I thought the compensation award of £300 was fair and reasonable. 
Aviva hasnt replied to my provisional decision. S on behalf of Mrs H has accepted my 
provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision.
Mrs Hs claim for compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by Aviva
We cannot consider all complaints that are brought to us. We can consider complaints
brought to us by eligible complainants and in following the Dispute Resolution rules set out
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The eligible complainant in this complaint is the solicitor as the executor of the estate of Ms
P and the policyholder of the policy with Aviva. I understand Mrs Hs disappointment. But this
service cannot consider the impact of Avivas handling of the claim on her for the reasons
Ive given.
Avivas handling of the claim and request for an excess payment of £1,000
S has provided a response from Mrs H and Ive considered what she says about the
circumstances of the claim  and whether Aviva was correct in requesting the higher excess
of £1,000 for an escape of water claim.
Mrs H says the pipe wasnt damage by water or anything else. And  quoting from the policyschedule - she doesnt think it reasonable for Aviva to charge the escape of water excess.
The policy schedule shows the standard excess for a claim is £175. Aviva lists additional
excesses clearly under the Endorsements section immediately below.
The policy with Aviva says the excess of £1,000 is payable in the event of damage caused
by or resulting from Escape of Water from any Tank Apparatus or Pipe
So the issue for me to consider is if it is within the policy or reasonable for Aviva to charge
an excess for an Escape of Water claim.
From the information available, I agree that there was no damage that had arisen  or was
claimed for - from an escape of water from the pipe. There was a small amount of water on
the concrete garage floor which dried up and wasnt part of the repair. Photos from the
plumber show a small amount of water on the concrete garage floor. When Mrs H contacted
Aviva she reported that water was leaking when the water was switched on. But the property
was unoccupied and the bathroom and toilet facilities were not being used. Mrs Hs enquiries
to Aviva were because a plumber advised her that the asbestos pipe would need specialist
removal.
I agree with Mrs H that the damage caused by the contractors error shouldnt be the reason
why the higher excess has been charged. And I dont think Aviva is claiming this to be the
case. The contractor asked for the higher excess before the leak in October 2020 from the
bathroom fitting was discovered.
Had Aviva correctly dealt with the claim from the outset under the Trace and Access section,
the claim could only be met if there was loss or damage caused by an escape of water:
Trace and Access
We will indemnify You in respect of reasonable costs and expenses incurred with Our
consent
(1) in locating the actual source of Damage and
(2) any repairs directly arising from (1) caused by the escape of water from any tank,
apparatus or pipe or leakage of fuel from any fixed oil heating installation, provided
such Damage is insured by this Section.
This means that Aviva would pay for the costs of locating the source of the damage and  if
by doing so there was damage caused by the escape of water from the pipe, Aviva would
cover those costs too. But Aviva wouldnt be responsible for the costs to repair the actual
pipe under a Trace and Access claim.
Ive looked at the schedule of works following the first claim and I cannot see that this
involved replacement or repair works for damage to the property as a result of escaping
water. The works were for removing and replacing the pipe. And so I agree with Mrs H that
no claim was made for damage arising from an escape of water. It therefore follows that I
dont think it reasonable for Aviva to charge the higher excess of £1,000.
There isnt an objection from Mrs H or S to pay an excess, but they say the correct one is
£175. I agree.
Had Aviva correctly dealt with the claim, it would have indemnified the policyholder for the
reasonable costs to locate the source of the leak and any damage arising from it. But it
wouldnt meet the costs of the repair. This means the policyholder would have been
responsible for the costs of the repair of the pipe which Aviva instead dealt with.But due to poor communication when the claim was made, Aviva agreed to deal with the
claim including the replacement and repair of the pipe. This agreement was made to put
right a failing by Aviva. So I dont think its reasonable for Aviva to then charge the higher
excess for recording it as an escape of water claim.
Ive seen an email from Aviva to Mrs H stating that the correct excess is £250. This is also
what Aviva initially told us. However, we couldnt find an excess of £250 quoted under the
policy schedule. Aviva confirmed that the correct excess due was £1,000. So I agree with
Mrs H that Aviva advised of different excess amounts and caused further confusion.
For the inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim and the subsequent leak
discovered in October 2020, Aviva offered to pay £300 compensation. I think this is fair and
in line with awards which we give for similar cases.
Based on what Ive seen, Im upholding this complaint. My recommendations are set out
below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
reduce the amount of excess owed under the claim to £175 in line with the policy 
and;
if it hasnt already paid it  pay the estate of Ms P £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman