DRN-2057904
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Saga Services Limited. He isnt happy that it wouldnt tell him 
the cost of his car insurance policy when it was due for renewal.
What happened
Mr P took out a policy through Saga that had a set price for a three-year period as long as 
his claims history and driving history didnt change. But Mr P was involved in a non-fault 
accident and looked to recover any uninsured losses from the third party. And so he asked 
Saga what the cost of his renewal would be.
But as Mr Ps policy wasnt due for renewal it couldnt provide the information he wanted. 
And as Mr P wasnt happy about this he complained to Saga and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
Saga hadnt done anything wrong. As Mr Ps policy wasnt up for renewal for a while it wasnt 
able to provide the renewal price which was in line with usual practice. 
Mr P disagreed and said that Saga had entered into a contract with him and that it shouldve 
provided him with the information he required. So the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr P, but Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr Ps policy has now renewed, and that Saga has continued the set price 
that was agreed when he took out the policy initially which is good to hear. In effect, Mr P 
hasnt lost out at all now that Saga has continued the set price and his premium didnt 
increase.
So although I can understand why Mr P wanted to know his premium and has looked to 
complain, but Saga hasnt done anything wrong. Premiums arent generally finalised until 
shortly before renewal which is when risk is assessed, and prices finalised. I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Saga to assess this early and as the investigator outlined the policy isnt 
guaranteed to be placed with the same insurer so I think this would be difficult to gauge. 
Furthermore, it is possible that Mr P could have been involved in a fault accident or had a 
driving conviction or fixed penalty during the remaining period which would probably affect 
the premium. 
As such, I cant say that Saga has acted unfairly here. It has agreed to provide Mr Ps 
premium at the set price and Im sure it will review this again next year. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman