DRN-3554231
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Optical Express Limited (Optical Express) wont refund the money he 
paid for eye surgery.
What happened
Below, Ive summarised the material facts in this case:
In August 2020, Mr T had eye surgery to improve his vision. He paid a deposit of 
£1,000 and borrowed £2,190 from a finance provider Ill call Business A to pay for it. 
Optical Express carried out the surgery and acted as the credit broker for the loan.
Mr T says the sales process was pressured. He paid the deposit on the day he had 
his initial consultation. Some time later, he considered cancelling the surgery. 
However, when he read the sales agreement, he realised Optical Express would 
keep either £150 or £500 depending on when he cancelled. He therefore went ahead 
with the surgery.
Mr T also says he was told his recovery time would be two days  when the recovery 
time was actually a lot longer. And although he signed or initialled the sales 
agreement in several places, he didnt sign or initial it everywhere he was supposed 
to. Essentially, Mr T says he wasnt told about the risks of the surgery, and he wasnt 
provided with accurate information about the likely recovery time or the cancellations 
terms.
Mr T wants Optical Express to refund the £3,190 he paid for the surgery and pay him 
an additional £2,000 for the issues hes had with his vision since the surgery, and the 
impact this has had on his day-to-day life.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2022, which explained why I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint. It included the following provisional findings:
Our service can only consider certain complaints. Sometimes, that means we cant consider 
a complaint at all. Sometimes, it means we can only consider certain elements of a 
complaint.
Our rules can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook, which is available online. Chapter 2 of the DISP rules sets out 
the scope of our jurisdiction  and explains that I can only consider complaints about certain 
activities.
I know that Mr T will be deeply disappointed, but I can only consider complaints about 
Optical Express if theyre about what it did as a credit broker. I cant consider complaints 
about the way it sells or performs surgery. As a result, I cant consider most of Mr Ts 
complaint points. Specifically, I cant consider:
whether he was misled about the recovery time
whether he was given adequate information about the risks of the surgery
whether he was adequately informed about the cancellations terms  and whether 
theyre fair
the effect, if any, of him not signing the form(s) in certain places
any post-surgery problems hes had, and the impact theyve had on his day-to-day 
life.
Nor can I consider whether the sale of the surgery itself was pressured.
But I can consider the way Optical Express set up the finance agreement with Business A.
Mr T says someone from Optical Express called him minutes after he completed an online 
form to indicate he was interested in eye surgery. A recording of this call isnt available, but 
Mr T says the possibility of finance was mentioned during this call.
Mr T went for an initial consultation a few days later.
Mr T has made a subject access request (SAR) to Optical Express. And hes sent us a copy 
of the 119-page document he received in response (the SAR document). Mr T has also 
sent us a copy of an email he sent Business A, which includes some initial comments he 
made after hed reviewed the SAR document, Optical Expresss response to those 
comments and some further comments from Mr T. Ive carefully considered this information, 
together with the other information thats been provided, to try to ascertain what happened 
when Mr T went for his initial consultation.
Mr T says he was taken to an enclosed room after hed seen the optician and given the 
choice of payment [sic] cash or finance and asked what period of time I would take the 
finance over if I chose to go ahead that way. He says he chose a 12-month loan term and 
paid the deposit. At page 77, the SAR document includes notes supposedly made by the 
patient advisor during this meeting. Regarding the loan, these notes say: 24 month  
considering. And Optical Express point out that Mr T subsequently chose a 24-month loan 
term and only committed to the loan on 14 August 2020, which was 7 days after the initial 
consultation and 15 days before the surgery. Mr T says this isnt an honest or a true 
recollection of what happened, although he doesnt say in what ways its inaccurate. Hes 
referred to entrapment, and has stressed that he was taken to a room out of sight, etc. And 
he says he was pressured into buying a financial service (i.e. the loan).
As I wasnt there when Mr T spoke with the patient advisor, I dont know what was said or 
how it was said. But from Mr Ts comments to Business A, its clear he was given a choice 
between paying for surgery in cash or with a loan. Its also clear from the advisors note, 
which says Mr T was considering a 24-month term, and the fact that he didnt commit to the 
loan until 14 August 2020, that he had time to consider it and explore other options. Ive 
therefore seen insufficient evidence that he was pressured into taking out the loan  aside 
from the fact that he wanted to avoid paying a cancellation fee of £150, which is, as Ive 
explained, not something I can consider.
Im very sorry that I cant consider Mr Ts other complaint points  but I hope Mr T can 
appreciate why.
Mr T has confirmed that hes received my provisional decision  but he hasnt sent me any 
further comments or evidence to consider. 
Optical Express hasnt replied at all. However, Im satisfied its had the opportunity to 
respond to my provisional decision if it had wished to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to consider any further comments or evidence, I confirm my 
provisional findings. My reasons remain the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman