DRN-2200923
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has declined to reimburse him the money he lost 
when he attempted to purchase a car which it later emerged was not owned by the seller.
What happened
The details of this case were clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to Lloyds 
upholding Mr Js complaint. As such the facts are well-known to both parties and I dont need 
to detail them at length here. 
But, to recap in brief, Mr J was looking to purchase a car. He found one that looked suitable 
listed for sale on a well-known online marketplace. Mr J contacted the seller and arranged to 
travel to inspect the vehicle. 
Mr Js wife carried out an HPI check the day before he travelled to inspect the vehicle. Mr J 
says this check was satisfactory. However, they noted that the colour listed on this vehicle 
check differed from that shown in the advert. Mr J called the DVLA to check on that point. 
Mr J explains the DVLA told him it was often not notified of changes in vehicle colour - in 
such circumstances the HPI check might legitimately show a different colour. He says this 
reassured him and he arranged with the seller to inspect the vehicle in person.
Mr J and his brother-in-law travelled a long distance in order to inspect the vehicle. Upon 
arrival they met the seller, inspected the vehicle and test-drove it. He recalls checking 
several aspects, including the vehicles log book, and all he checked appeared to be in 
order. Mr J and the seller agreed a price of £15,500. 
Mr J made an initial Faster Payments transfer to the seller of £100 - verifying it was correctly 
received in the sellers account. Mr J then sent a second Faster Payments transfer of 
£15,400. He arranged tax and insurance for the vehicle, and then drove it home.
Just over a week later, Mr J received a call from the Police asking him to meet them at the 
vehicle. It was explained to Mr J that, in reality, this was a stolen vehicle. The Police 
explained to Mr J that he had been the victim of a sophisticated deception whereby the 
vehicles identity (including its number plates) had been switched for that of a second stolen 
vehicle of the same make and model, albeit from a slightly different model year. Crucially, 
that second vehicle had not been reported stolen at the time Mr J had carried out his 
inspection and checks. In short, the vehicle was not the one Mr J believed hed bought.
The car was recovered by the Police and returned to the true owner. Subsequent Police 
investigations suggest this was likely one of several similar linked crimes, involving the theft 
and fraudulent resale of the same type of vehicle. 
Mr J was unable to make contact with the seller or otherwise recover the funds. He was left 
without the car and without any of the money hed paid. He reported his loss to Lloyds.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment fraud (APP scams) in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Lloyds didnt think it was liable to reimburse Mr J for his losses. It said the CRM Code didnt 
apply to the payments Mr J had sent because hed received the item hed paid for. Lloyds 
said this might constitute a civil dispute with the seller, but it had not been an APP scam. 
However, it paid Mr J £200 for providing him with incorrect information when hed initially 
reported what had happened.
Mr J didnt accept this and asked us to consider his complaint.
Our investigator thought this had been an APP scam, and that the CRM Code did apply 
here. She thought that Lloyds ought to have refunded Mr J in full under the CRM Code.
Lloyds didnt accept these findings. It said:
it couldnt be expected to stop customers from purchasing stolen or counterfeit items. 
The purpose of the CRM Code was not for banks to underwrite the risks involved in 
purchases.
Mr J had shown awareness of the risks involved in the purchase, by the steps he 
took including the purchase of an HPI report into the vehicle.
Mr J hadnt followed every step recommended by HPI on its website. Lloyds said that 
by failing to do so he had ignored an effective warning, waiving any right to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same outcome as that reached by our 
investigator and for similar reasons. In summary, I am satisfied that:
The relevant payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code. I consider Mr J was 
the victim of an APP scam here. The seller does not appear to have had any 
legitimate intention, but rather a showed a clear intent to defraud. I do not consider 
this to be the type of civil matter excluded under the CRM Code.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded the money Mr J 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Lloyds should now fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr J 
lost.
The money was sent from Mr Js current account. It is not clear how he would have 
used the money if Lloyds had refunded it when it should have done, so Lloyds should 
also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year. This 
interest should apply from the date Lloyds first declined to reimburse Mr J to the date 
of settlement.
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations  including those given in response to 
our investigators assessment  detailing the reasons it considers Mr J should not be 
refunded under the CRM Code. But these do not persuade me to reach a different view 
here. I am satisfied the CRM Code applies to Mr Js case, and I am not persuaded Mr J 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code (a failure to meet that level must be established for Lloyds to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM 
Code). 
Firstly, while I accept this is a relatively uncommon scam, I am satisfied the CRM Code 
applies here for the following reasons:
Mr J was tricked into transferring £15,500 to a fraudster. It is not disputed that after 
making the payments he was able to drive away in a vehicle. But the ownership of 
that vehicle did not pass to Mr J  he did not receive what he paid for. The 
information I have seen - including that relating to the Police investigation  
persuades me on balance that there was never any intent on the part of the seller for 
this to have constituted a legitimate sale. The seller was not the owner - nor was the 
seller acting on behalf of the legitimate owner  this was a stolen vehicle disguised in 
order to obscure that fact. Mr J fell victim to what was a sophisticated deception 
designed to defraud him of the money he paid in good faith. In short, the seller 
obtained money by deception. I therefore find the exclusion in the CRM Code 
covering private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate 
supplier has not been fairly applied by Lloyds in this case, and this case should 
not be excluded on that basis. I find Mr J was the victim of an APP scam and one 
within the remit of the CRM Code.
In all the circumstances, I am satisfied these transactions fall under the remit of the 
CRM Code, and given that Lloyds is a signatory, it follows that the CRM Code is 
applicable to Mr Js losses.
Lloyds hasnt said it gave Mr J an effective warning prior to him making either payment, and 
it hasnt denied reimbursement on the basis of Mr J ignoring an effective warning that it 
gave. But it refers to information contained on the HPI website (and on the AA and RAC 
websites) which it says would have warned Mr J about this type of scam. Lloyds says its 
likely Mr J has ignored effective warnings provided by the HPI service.
However, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not met 
because:
Under the CRM Code, the effective warning exception refers to effective warnings 
given by the sending firm (here, Lloyds) in compliance with the standards for firms. 
Lloyds doesnt say it gave any effective warnings here, and for the avoidance of 
doubt, I dont think it did, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Rather, it 
relies on the information contained on other websites to have acted as that warning. 
As those warnings werent provided by Lloyds, I do not consider them to be 
effective warnings under the CRM Code.
Mr J explains the HPI check was carried out by his wife, and this happened a day 
prior to him travelling to inspect the vehicle. It is not clear to me that Mr J saw the HPI 
website information Lloyds refers to (or that his that his wife did). Similarly, Lloyds 
hasnt established that Mr J would have seen the information on the other websites it 
refers to. But as Ive explained, information on the HPI, AA or RAC websites dont 
amount to an effective warning as defined in the CRM Code. 
Its also unclear to me that the information referenced by Lloyds would have 
prevented Mr J falling victim to the scam. For example, the registration plate details 
that were provided belonged to another vehicle that hadnt yet been recorded as 
stolen, and its unknown in this case whether the VIN number (the chassis number) 
was also changed on the vehicle - which Im aware is a feature in sophisticated 
crimes such as this. Further, Im satisfied that Lloyds has not shown that Mr J lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
prior to making the payments because:
Before sending any payment, Mr J had taken several precautions. Hed arranged for 
an HPI check to be carried out - which he says didnt generate any concerns. While 
Mr J didnt keep a copy of the HPI check, I dont doubt what hes said  hes provided 
proof that the check was paid for, and I think its very unlikely hed have travelled a 
significant distance and paid a large amount of money for a vehicle following an 
unsatisfactory HPI check result.
Mr J had also carried out a physical inspection of the vehicle, including test driving it 
and checking the log book documentation. Hed noted a discrepancy in the vehicle 
colour, but I am persuaded the explanation hes provided about the DVLAs 
reassurance on that point is both plausible and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive 
not seen anything that I consider should reasonably have led him (in advance of the 
purchase) to have any real concerns about this not being a legitimate sale. And I 
think he did enough here to have a reasonable basis for believing this was a 
legitimate transaction.
Mr J has described his inspection of the vehicle as lengthy and I find his recollections 
on this point to be persuasive. Mr J has also told us that he thinks he did check the 
VIN number (the chassis number), but he can no longer be certain of this given the 
time that has since passed. As Ive explained, it is possible the VIN number was 
changed in order to maximise the success of selling the stolen vehicle.
While Mr J had negotiated a relatively low price for the vehicle, Im satisfied this was 
not too good to be true.
Lloyds points out that Mr J may have been able to undertake some additional checks. 
It says this specifically in relation to some aspects of the HPI check. Its no longer 
clear exactly what was and what wasnt checked at the time, but it seems to me that 
the HPI check was primarily used by Mr J to carry out an initial desktop validation of 
the vehicle before the physical inspection and test drive the following day. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think Mr J ever intended to place sole reliance on that HPI 
check. It was simply one of several steps he took to validate the purchase, with the 
final step being a test drive and physical inspection of the car. I also consider the 
circumstances in which the HPI check was carried out are relevant here  in other 
words that the check was being carried out prior to having physical access to the 
vehicle. This circumstance meant that any steps omitted at the time could only have 
been taken by placing reliance on information provided by the seller. Such 
information would have almost certainly have been compromised information - in turn 
almost certainly invalidating the efficacy of those further steps. In the particular 
circumstances of this case I also think it was reasonable for Mr J to have arranged 
the HPI check prior to seeing the vehicle, so as to avoid an unnecessary and 
expensive trip.
The risk that this could be a stolen vehicle was one that I find would have likely 
appeared a remote one to Mr J, given hed met the seller in person and carried out 
an inspection and test drive  none of these having raised concern.Im not persuaded the existence of possible additional steps or checks can be 
enough in itself to establish that a consumer acted without a reasonable basis for 
belief. Rather, the CRM Code requires consideration of whether in all the 
circumstances the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payment was for genuine goods/the person with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. Thinking here about all those circumstances in this case, 
including the sophistication of the deception and the numerous and lengthy checks 
Mr J had completed before making a payment, Im persuaded that, overall, Mr J both 
acted reasonably and had a reasonable basis for belief here.
As a final point, when he sent the second transfer, Mr J was making a large payment  one 
that was out of character and unusual for him. I think Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to 
have intervened  getting in contact with Mr J to challenge the purpose of the payment, to 
help protect him from the possibility of financial harm or fraud. 
However, I agree with Lloyds and our investigator that it would have been very difficult for 
Lloyds to prevent the loss Mr J suffered. I think even had Lloyds spoken to Mr J about the 
payments at the time, it would have been unlikely to have identified any specific reason for 
concern about the transaction, or to have suggested he take any steps beyond those he 
already had. 
That being said, reimbursement under the CRM Code is not contingent upon the ability of a 
firm to have prevented a scam from occurring, it is determined by the customer having met 
their requisite level of care  and as explained above I am satisfied Mr J did.
In summary, I find that the CRM Code is applicable here. I find that Mr J met his requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code and was therefore entitled to be fully reimbursed in 
accordance with the provisions of the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr J ought to have 
been fully refunded under the CRM Code. 
I therefore direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr J:
the sum he lost  i.e. £15,500  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds initially declined to consider Mr Js claim for 
reimbursement under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman