DRN-2689095
The complaint
Mr A complains Metro Bank PLC allowed his account to become overdrawn and incorrectly 
debited his account.
What happened
Over a few days Mr A made card purchases to a company Ill call C. Shortly after, in 14 
separate transactions, Mr As account was credited with what was referred to on Mr As 
statement as card purchase refunds. After these credits were received Mr A transferred 
some money out of his account. A few days later his account was debited seven times and 
these debits were referred to as card purchase refund reversals on his statement. Following 
the reversals his account was overdrawn.
Mr A initially complained that Metro Bank allowed C to take funds which he didnt have and 
as a result his account became overdrawn. When Metro Bank received the complaint, it said 
he needed to contact C. Mr A did this and C told him, based on what Mr A had told it, it 
looked like Metro Bank was interpreting the refund coding incorrectly and the funds were 
therefore debiting the account rather than crediting it. Mr A then went back to Metro Bank.
In its final response letter Metro Bank said C refunded the payments but duplicated the 
refunds. C then reversed the duplicate refunds. But before the duplicates were refunded 
Mr A had reduced his balance so the reversal caused the account to go overdrawn. It said 
based on Mr As account activity it was clear that the refunds were in excess of the card 
purchases he had made and as such were likely to be requested back from C. It had seen 
no evidence that the refunds were done by anyone other than C. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
When Mr A came to this service, he said he was expecting to receive £2,000 (so the total 
amount of the 14 refunds) from C and so the refund reversal was wrong. The investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the refund reversal was instigated by 
C after it had refunded Mr A twice the amount it should have done in error. He didnt think 
Metro Bank was wrong to allow the account to go overdrawn.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view he said that the investigator hadnt considered that 
he had lost a large amount of money and being a student with no income is hard. He also 
said that this wasnt the first time Metro Bank had messed up his account.
The investigator asked Mr A to provide any evidence to support what he had said about 
expecting to receive £2,000. 
Mr A didnt provide any further evidence but did say he wasnt happy with the investigators 
view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As frustration here. He seems to be stuck between C and Metro Bank and 
he thinks he has lost £1,000. I have looked carefully at what Mr A has said and the message 
from C Mr A has shared. Based on what Ive seen I do think it is most likely that both 
Metro Bank and the investigator have correctly understood what has happened; that is that 
C, in error, duplicated its refunds to Mr A and then reversed the duplicate. This being the 
case I cant order Metro Bank to pay Mr A the money he thinks hes lost. 
I also agree with the investigator that I cant see Metro Bank acted incorrectly when the 
reversed refunds caused Mr As account to go overdrawn. As it seems most likely Mr A 
should not have had the second set of refunds in the first place then he shouldnt have 
withdrawn the money from his account. If he hadnt withdrawn it then his account wouldnt 
have gone overdrawn.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman