DRN-1752440
 
The complaint
Ms P complains on behalf of B, a limited company whose account Metro Bank Plc blocked 
and closed. Shed like to be compensated for Metro withholding the funds and the trouble 
and upset caused. 
What happened
Ms P is the sole director of B. And B had a business account with Metro. 
On the 6 October 2018 Metro wrote to Ms P to notify her that Bs account would be closing in 
7 days. They also held on to funds totalling £4,482.55. 
Ms P complained to our service directly. We passed her concerns on to Metro, but Metro 
didnt uphold her complaint. They explained they followed the terms and conditions of the 
account. As Ms P wasnt happy with Metros response she asked our service to look into it 
further. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps complaint about B and on contacting Metro the 
bank released the funds to B. Our investigator thought that Metro should have given B more 
notice on closing their account and they should have released their funds sooner. She 
recommended that Metro pay 8% interest on the funds returned from the date of restriction 
to the date the funds were returned and £200 in compensation. 
Neither B or Metro accepted our investigators outcome. Ms P explained that she thought 
Metro should compensate B at the rate they charge on their overdrafts and the £200 
compensation offered wasnt fair. 
Metro partially accepted our investigators outcome. They agreed to pay B 8% interest but 
thought the level of compensation requested was too high  and felt that £100 was more 
appropriate.
As neither party agreed its been passed to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Bs complaint, I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
explained to Ms P that I didnt think that there was sufficient evidence to conclude that £200 
is an appropriate level of compensation. And I was satisfied that the offer Metro made of 
£100 compensation was fair. 
Ms P didnt accept my recommendation. She reiterated that she felt Metro should 
compensate the business at the same rate it would cost to borrow the funds  and not the 
8% as proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. A bank is entitled 
to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Metro gave Ms P 7 days notice about the closure of Bs account. The terms and conditions 
of Bs account say that of closing an account Metro will take reasonable steps to reduce the 
inconvenience  if we can we will tell you before we suspend these services or close the 
account (giving you two months notice). There are certain terms listed by which Metro are 
entitled to close Bs account immediately. Having looked at these terms Im satisfied Metro 
werent entitled to apply an immediate closure in this case, and instead they should have 
given 2 months notice. 
Ive considered the impact of Metros actions on B and Ms P. At the time of the account 
closure B had just over £4,480 in the account. Metro have explained that B had a change in 
the director of the business prior to the closure of the account  but they werent provided 
with new documentation from Ms P as the new director. And consequently they were unable 
to release the funds. Ive not seen any evidence from Ms P that this documentation was 
provided to Metro to enable the release of these funds. But Im satisfied its likely if Ms P had 
been given the full 2 months notice period then shed have been able to access Bs funds 
sooner. 
Ms P has argued that B should be compensated the same level of interest the business 
would be charged to borrow funds from the bank. Ive considered this. But Im satisfied that 
8% interest is a fair amount for Metro to pay. The 8% is designed to compensate B for a 
number of reasons including the potential cost of borrowing alternative funds, not having 
access to the money and not being able to invest the funds. Ive not seen any evidence to 
show that B was required to borrow at a higher rate or had other significant impacts because 
of not having these funds.
Ive also considered whether £100 is a fair offer from Metro for the inconvenience caused to 
B. And I think it is. I say this because Ive not seen evidence that B suffered additional 
inconvenience from not having access to these funds.  Ive also not seen any evidence that 
Ms P made significant contact with Metro to chase the funds and Ms P has confirmed B 
werent operating at the time the funds were withheld by Metro. For these reasons Im 
satisfied that £100 is fair compensation. 
My final decision
My Final decision is I direct Metro Bank Plc to:
Pay B £100 in compensation
Pay B 8% interest on the withheld funds from the date of restriction, 13 October 2018 
to the 20 November 2019 when the funds were released. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman