DRN-1602821
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.   
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1994. The policy was taken out when Mr K 
applied for a mortgage in one of the bank's branches. The PPI covered him if he couldnt 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Santander hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mr Ks 
attention. And that, if it had done, he wouldnt have taken the policy.
Santander didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Any pre-existing medical condition would have been discussed at the point of sale 
and would have formed part of the suitability check.
The policy exclusions would have been discussed and information was contained in 
the policy summary and the policy document.
Mr K hasn't provided any documentary evidence of his medical condition so there's 
no evidence to show when he was diagnosed and whether he suffered with the 
condition in the 12 months prior to the cover starting.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Santander doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to make sure that it was suitable for him.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Mr K 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for "recurrence of 
any disability or illness for which you sought medical advice in the 2 year period immediately 
prior to the start of your cover".Mr K told us hed been diagnosed with a condition around three years before he was sold 
the policy. This condition was long term and required many hospital appointments, tests and 
regular use of pain killers. I do not expect him to be able to provide proof of his diagnosis or 
his medical appointments and procedures from more than 26 years ago - just as I don't 
expect Santander to have full records of what happened so long ago. Mr K's testimony is 
plausible and I think, on balance, that he had this condition when he took out the PPI and 
that he'd sought medical advice for it in the two years before his application. 
This condition wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Mr K told us he has had - and 
continues to have to - take time of work because of the condition. This suggests to me that, 
when he took out the policy, he was likely to have anticipated that any time off work would 
likely be due to this condition, or something connected to it. I think this condition would 
have affected his decision to take the policy.
So I find that, if exclusion terms been brought to his attention, its more likely than not that Mr 
K wouldnt have taken the policy.
Santander says it would have discussed this during the meeting with Mr K. But in the 
absence of any evidence of this discussion, and taking into account all the circumstances, I 
don't think Santander did enough to draw the exclusion terms to Mr K's attention.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr K in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr K the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK plc should pay compensation 
as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman