DRN-3682494
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Lighthouse Financial Advice Limited, 
an appointed representative of Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) to 
transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with British Steel (BSPS) to 
a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
In June 2017, Mr P met with Lighthouse for advice on his pension as he was concerned 
about the PPF and the security of his pension.
A fact find and risk profiler were completed which showed:
Mr P was 49, married, he had two adult children which were still dependent, and he 
was in good health. He earned £36,000 per year. He and his wife owned their home 
worth around £150,000. They had an outstanding mortgage of £70,000 and a car 
loan of £18,000. They had an emergency fund of £4,000.
Mr Ps outgoings were recorded as £2,000 per month (without a detailed expenditure 
analysis) leaving him with disposable income of £200 per month.
Mr P was keen to retire at 55. He was looking to pay off his mortgage with any tax-
free cash and buy a new car. He wanted to move back to a different part of the UK 
where he was originally from and wanted to use the equity from the sale of his house 
and any remaining tax-free cash to have a budget of around £200,000 for a new 
home there. He thought he could comfortably retire with income of £1,200 per month 
as he would have no liabilities and the children would have flown the nest.
Mr P was also a member of the new company defined contribution (DC) pension 
scheme contributing 9%. Mrs P was working part-time and had her own DB pension. 
However, the couples future plans were primarily reliant on Mr Ps pension benefits.
Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as lowest medium and Mr P said he could only 
tolerate small losses to his pension
A suitability report was subsequently issued which recommended Mr P to transfer his DB 
benefits to a personal pension. The reasons for doing so were recorded as:
To provide your wife with a legacy which allows her full flexibility to support her 
financially around her own small pension provision, were you to pass away 
unexpectedly.
To be able to leave, what you see, as your hard-earned pension pot to your children, 
should you and [Mrs P] both pass away and not give it back to the Trustees as 
would happen within the scheme.
To allow you to control your pension benefits and how you access them, for example 
being free to access your tax free cash when you retire at age 55 to allow you the 
possibility of moving [elsewhere in the UK] and to allow you sufficient income to 
maintain your lifestyle.
To control the level of income that you take from your pension pot as you feel you will 
have no need for an income of more than £1200 per month and so mean to reduce 
the income you take when you reach state pension age.
Mr P complained to Lighthouse in 2021 about the advice he received. He said it wasnt 
suitable. Lighthouse rejected his complaint.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators upheld his complaint.
He agreed Lighthouse had given unsuitable advice.
Lighthouse disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive considered the very detailed submissions by both parties in full. However, I will focus on
what I consider to be the most relevant points.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouses actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the 
key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and
its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 G:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the effect 
of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of the 
assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to the
ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from crystallisation
at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being
given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not regard a
rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined benefits
pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Did Lighthouse take reasonable steps to ensure a DB transfer was suitable for Mr P?
The regulators guidance is that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme 
should be that it is unsuitable. A firm should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. 
(COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice
to transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. Ill explain why. 
financial viability
The following benefits were available from the DB scheme when taking tax-free cash lump 
sum (TFC) as Mr P was intending to.  
At age 55: TFC of £79,724 and a reduced annual pension of £11,958. 
At age 60: TFC of £106,941 and a reduced annual pension of £16,041.
The transfer analysis showed that the investment return required to match the DB pension at 
retirement at age 55 (critical yield) was 9.42% if taken as a lump sum payment with a 
reduced pension. The equivalent critical yield to match the benefits available at age 60 was 
5.89%.  The critical yield needed to match benefits compared to the PPF at age 60 or 55 
werent provided.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
the advice was given in this case.
The discount rate in this case was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement or 3.8% per 
year for 10 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per 
year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr P likely would 
receive lower overall benefits by transferring if he retired early.
In fact when the suitability report went through Lighthouses compliance in 2017 they also 
suggested to the adviser it should be confirmed to Mr P when discussing the critical yields 
that it was highly likely they wouldnt be achieved. They also queried how realistic it was for 
Mr P to retire at 55 and his income requirements given his current lifestyle and salary.
In the suitability report Lighthouse found that taking benefits at 55 was unrealistic for Mr P 
and that taking income from this age from a flexible pension could result in depleting his 
pension during his lifetime. They said if he was to retire at age 55 taking benefits from the 
DB scheme would be recommended to ensure this eventuality was prevented. 
After discussions with Mr P his income requirements in retirement were increased from 
£1,200 to £1,700 per month. Its unclear how exactly this was worked out. The adviser 
recommended Mr P to aim for early retirement at age 60 as his pension could then very 
likely support him through retirement.
However, I think even at age 60 the critical yield of 5.89% which was above the middle 
projection rates provided by the regulator was unlikely to be achieved with Mr Ps lowest 
attitude to risk. And so his overall benefits at age 60 would also likely be lower than the ones 
available from the DB scheme.
The transfer analysis also showed that if Mr P took benefits from a drawdown plan which 
matched his DB benefits from the age of 60 and assuming a mid-rate return of 5%, his 
pension fund would run out at 82. 
In summary, Mr P was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to 
a personal pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr P would receive 
overall lower benefits in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ps 
best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Income and flexibility
Flexibility as a concept might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr P had any concrete
need for it or that his objectives in this regard could not be met from the DB scheme. Its 
clear from the documents I have seen that one of Mr Ps main priorities was the possibility to 
retire early. Its noted in the suitability report that Mr P felt leaving the benefits with the BSPS 
was a high risk strategy as if the scheme went to the PPF he might not be able to retire 
early. However, this wasnt correct. Early retirement was possible from the PPF from age 55 
or even earlier if a member in the former DB scheme had a lower protected retirement age. 
Retirement from age 55 was already discounted by Lighthouse so I think they ought to have 
discussed with Mr P what his options were at age 60 if he stayed in the BSPS and also if he 
moved to the PPF. In the BSPS, Mr P could have had around £106,000 in TFC. I note in 
2017 he had a mortgage term of 10 years left on a repayment mortgage, so arguably by age 
60 the mortgage would have been paid off.  However, even if he still had a mortgage, he could have paid off his liabilities, bought a new car and would have left over funds to buy a 
new home with the equity of his current home. Any remaining funds could have been used to 
top up his income until age 67 if needed. Mr P was also contributing 9% to a DC pension 
and his employer also would have contributed to this. So he would have had another 
pension he could have taken flexibly.
PPF benefits at age 60 werent discussed as far as I can see. However, the transfer analysis 
shows available benefits from the PPF at 65 were a TFC lump sum of £133,822 and a 
reduced pension of £20,126 per year compared to TFC of £138,257 and a pension of 
£20,738 in the BSPS. Early retirement and tax-free cash factors were more generous in the 
PPF, so I dont think the PPF benefits at age 60 likely would have been significantly lower 
than in the BSPS to a point where Mr Ps retirement objectives werent achievable.
So I think Mr P could have met his retirement objectives if he remained in the DB scheme 
without exposing his main pension provision to investment risk. The terms of the RAA had 
also been agreed a couple of months previously and the if certain conditions were met a new 
scheme, the BSPS2 would be set up. Lighthouse simply disregarded this option saying it 
wouldnt meet Mr Ps flexibility objectives. However, as set out above I think Mr Ps existing 
benefits did provide some flexibility. 
Mr P said he would be happy to sacrifice a guaranteed income to ensure he could retire 
early. However, he didnt need to do this. He could have secure benefits and retire early 
from the BSPS2 or PPF.
Lighthouse referred to a separate cashflow analysis which apparently showed that if his 
personal pension achieved growth of 5% per year Mr P could take £1,700 per month 
(increasing with assumed inflation of 2.5%), reduce his income from state pension age and 
again when his wife started to receive her state pension and would not run out of funds 
before age 103.
However, the analysis depended on investment returns which werent guaranteed and relied 
on Mr P reducing his income significantly after age 67. I cant see that any stress testing, for 
example sustained poor performance in early years or the use of additional lump sums in 
early retirement were undertaken. 
However, in any event, even if there was a reasonable chance Mr P would not run out of 
funds in his lifetime if he used his pension conservatively, I dont think this was reason 
enough for a transfer given that overall higher benefits could have been achieved in the DB 
scheme allowing Mr P to achieve his retirement objectives without taking on risk with his 
pension provisions.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. However, whilst death benefits might be
important for consumers, there generally shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this
compared to their own retirement needs. And the existing death benefits with BSPS were not
to be underestimated. Mr Ps wife would have received a guaranteed spouses pension
which escalated each year for life which would have been valuable if Mr P predeceased her.  
Mr P was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr P would
receive the best possible retirement benefits over a long period of time. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death.
And I dont think Lighthouse explored to what extent Mr P was prepared to accept a lowerretirement income in exchange for potentially higher death benefits. I also note that how 
much was left for death benefits very much would depend on the performance of Mr Ps 
personal pension and how much he withdrew from it in retirement. So a large lump sum 
being left over for his family after death was by no means guaranteed.
Mr P also had his employers DC pension with generous contributions which allowed him to 
accrue further benefits until retirement. He could have used this pension flexibly from age 55 
if he wished to do so. He also could have left lump sums from this pension to his wife and 
children. And he could have saved and invested any excess income for the benefit of his 
family in a tax-efficient way for example through a trust. If Mr P died before retirement whilst 
his children were still dependent, he also would have received a very generous death in 
service benefit and a lump sum of returned contributions as well as his DC fund. 
I think its clear Mr P already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme and he 
couldve made other arrangements (in the ways Ive set out above) to ensure that a
significant part of his pension was left to his family after his death. So in my view there was 
no need to give up his DB benefits for these reasons.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
There is no doubt Mr P was concerned about his employers financial situation and the
uncertainty surrounding the BSPS.
Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried
his pension would end up in the PPF. So I think its likely Mr P was worried about the
security of his pension which is why he wanted to take control of it. And he thought early 
retirement wasnt possible from the PPF (which was incorrect). 
However, it was Lighthouses obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend
what was in his best interest. Mr P was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the 
PPF. He was worried about the security of his pension and that he could lose some of it. 
However, even if this happened, Mr P was still likely to be better off not transferring. Also, his 
pension wasnt under his employers control as he perceived it. It was independently 
controlled by trustees to protect members interests. I cant see that this was properly 
explained to him or that Lighthouse did enough to alleviate Mr Ps concerns in this regard. 
And they didnt correct his view about early retirement not being possible from the PPF or 
that remaining in the scheme was high risk, which it clearly wasnt.
Skilled person review
I recognise that the FCA required Lighthouse to appoint a Skilled Person under section 166
of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) to conduct a review of certain DB pension 
transfers advised on or arranged by Lighthouse (the Skilled Person Review).
The Skilled Person who is independent from Lighthouse reviewed the advice given to Mr P
in 2021 using the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) and found the
advice to have been suitable.
Lighthouse feels this hasnt been taken into account and that the DBAAT tool and 
methodology used by the regulator has been ignored.
I can assure Lighthouse that I have considered the skilled persons assessment and all the 
documents that were provided with it. The DBAAT tool is designed to help establish and 
guide users whether DB transfer advice was suitable in a specific case. In this case the suggested suitability rating was in fact potentially unsuitable. The skilled person overall 
thought the advice was suitable and provided their reasoning which I have considered.
However, Im considering this advice independently and Im not bound by what the skilled
person decided. As set out at the beginning of the decision Ive taken into account COBS 9
and COBS 19 as well as the Principles, FCA rules and guidance and good industry practice.
And having done so Ive reached a different outcome for the reasons set out above. This 
doesnt mean I used different considerations to the regulator. I simply dont agree with some 
of the answers the skilled person gave in the DBAAT tool and the ultimate outcome that was 
reached. For example, I didnt think there was sufficient evidence on file that flexible benefits 
or maximising death benefits were in Mr Ps best interest; that the transfer analysis 
supported a recommendation to transfer or that early retirement objectives couldnt be met 
by remaining in the scheme.
summary
Its possible that Mr P was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing and he was very concerned about the possibility
of his pension falling to the PPF and him not being able to retire early. And I dont doubt that 
flexibility, control and lump sum death benefits would have also sounded like attractive 
features. But Lighthouse wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend 
what was in his best interest.
I appreciate Lighthouse included some risk warnings in their suitability report. However, this
doesnt replace suitable advice. Mr Ps fear about the PPF and the security of his pension
should have been put into perspective. If Lighthouse had recommended him to stay and
explained their reasons properly why Mr P would likely be better off staying in his DB 
scheme, that he could retire early and meet his objectives and that going into the PPF wasnt 
as concerning as he thought, I think Mr P likely would have followed their advice. Mr P also 
was about to be given the option to choose to move to a new scheme, the BSPS2, so there 
was a reasonable chance his pension wouldnt end up with the PPF anyway. Lighthouse 
should have waited until more information was available about this option. There was no 
need for Mr P to transfer before this information was available.
I dont think Lighthouse took reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and in Mr 
Ps best interest. There was no persuasive reason for him to give up guaranteed benefits 
and expose his pension to risk. They should have recommended him to remain in his DB 
scheme and await the upcoming information on his available options. Mr P would have had 
the choice in October 2017 to move with the BSPS to the PPF or transfer to the BSPS2. And 
I think reasonable advice would have been for Mr P to opt for the BSPS2.
BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Ps initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of
his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. Under BSPS2, the
spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Ps pension at the date of death, and this
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the spouses pension
would likely have been higher than in the PPF.
Early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. However, Mr P was still quite a few 
years away from when he could retire, particularly based on the recommended retirement 
age of 60. So I think these plans could have still reasonably changed. And so I think he 
ought to have been advised to move to the BSPS2.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved to the BSPS2. So
calculations should be made on this assumption.
Lighthouse must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Mr P took lump sums from his pension this year (at age 55) and paid off his mortgage and 
car loans. He hasnt taken any income yet but is planning to retire this year if his relocation 
plans work out and he can sell his home. I carefully considered when Mr P likely would have 
retired if he was currently in the BSPS2. I think he still would have wanted to retire at the 
same time. However, I dont think its likely he realistically could have afforded to do so. The 
benefits from the BSPS2 would have been lower than in the BSPS. And the BSPS benefits 
already werent sufficient both in my and Lighthouses view to pay off his liabilities and 
provide sufficient income.
So I think its reasonable to assume he would have had to defer his pension. Of course its 
impossible to say what exactly he would have done. I think its reasonable to assume he 
would have tried to retire as soon as he could afford to. As explained earlier in this decision I 
think Mr P could have afforded to retire at 60 and this was also the recommendation from 
Lighthouse. So I think the calculations should be based on an assumed retirement age of 60. 
I would like to note at this stage that just because Mr P is planning to retire this year and I 
dont think this would have been affordable if he had remained in his DB scheme, it doesnt 
follow that a transfer was in his best interest and should have been recommended. By taking 
income from age 55 or 56 he is going against the advisers recommendation to aim for 
retirement at age 60. The earlier he takes income from his pension the more the risk 
increases that his funds will run out depending on investment performance and how much 
income Mr P continues to take from his pension over the course of his retirement.  
 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress.
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
-their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented ratherthan receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr P accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented,
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, Mr P may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition Lighthouse should pay Mr P £300 for the distress their unsuitable advice has
caused him.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory
Services Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman