DRN-4045706
The complaint
Mr P complains that his ISA provider, Cynergy Bank Limited has provided misleading 
information about its ISAs in relation to the increasing of interest rates for its ISA issues.
What happened
Mr P has invested in Cynergy ISAs since January 2020. He said its Key Product Information 
(KPI) is intentionally misleading to Cynergys benefit and the disadvantage of the customer. 
Can Cynergy change the interest rate? Yes, the interest rate may change. If we change the 
interest rate to your advantage we may make the change immediately and will notify you 
within a reasonable time of the change taking effect. Where we make a change to the 
interest rate that is not to your advantage, we will notify you not less than 14 days before the 
change takes effect. Where the balance of your account is less than £100, we will not be 
required to give you notice ahead of making a change. 
Cynergys online ISAs have issues numbers, but Mr P says the interest rate on a specific 
issue has never been raised, it reacts to changes by introducing a new issue with a higher 
interest rate. He said this means customers have to proactively monitor its website to ensure 
they are getting the best rate available. However, customers relying on the statement above 
believe they have a variable interest rate ISA and may not do anything and wont receive the 
higher interest rate. He said Cynergy benefits unfairly because of its misleading information. 
Cynergy said Mr P had complained that it hadnt notified him of a new higher rate ISA issue 
and hadnt automatically uplifted the interest rate on his existing ISA. Cynergy said it doesnt 
notify customers when it offers a new issue and doesnt automatically upgrade interest on 
existing issues. Cynergy said this can be inconvenient for customers, but its rates are clearly 
displayed, and it has a fast-track application process for new issues. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said monitoring Cynergys interest rates 
and applying for a new issue can be inconvenient, but Cynergy hasnt done anything wrong.
The investigator said we arent the regulator and its not our role to review business 
processes or interfere with how businesses operate - thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And so we cant tell Cynergy to change the terms of an account. He said 
Cynergys terms are clear about the interest rate being variable, but dont require Cynergy to 
increase the rate on a current issue or notify customers of new ISA issues.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said Cynergy are misleading customers by indicating ISA issues have variable interest rates, 
he said these are variable ISAs that are never varied, and it is acting unfairly. Mr P wanted to 
know whether our service or the FCA was the body to effect change with Cynergy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P thinks that Cynergys KPI misleads customers and would like it amended. He accepts 
that its terms dont require it to vary interest rates or notify customers of new issues with 
higher rates, but as it states the ISA has a variable rate, which in practice is never varied, 
Cynergy are misleading its customers.  
I can see that Cynergy offers ISAs via issues comprising an offered rate, not linked to the 
Bank of England base rate. It says it offers new issues responding to the market and 
competition independent of previous issues. It said, if we can increase the variable rate for 
customers with existing variable accounts we will notify them of the change, within a 
reasonable time of the change taking effect, as outlined in our terms and conditions.
Cynergy recognises, and its clearly been the case, that to obtain the best interest rate 
customers have needed to apply for the latest ISA issue. However, in response to my 
questions, Cynergy has said that it has increased the interest rate on its ISAs, issues 1 to 
21, this month. It said when launching issue 40 it increased the interest rate of issue 39. It 
appears that Cynergy wants to retain the flexibility to amend rates or provide new issues. As 
Mr P acknowledges, this isnt a breach of the terms and conditions of the account.
Cynergy states the new issues, and their rates are well publicised and easily available to 
existing customers. It advertises its accounts on its website and says it has a fast track 
application process to enable customers to change issues. Mr P has successfully opened 
several accounts using this method over the last three years and he says the effect on him 
of Cynergys approach to ISAs has been limited. 
Mr P refers to another complaint our service considered concerning a different ISA provider. 
He says the terms and conditions of that business state: We may offer different interest 
rates for new accounts. The interest rate on your account wont automatically change to 
match the new rates. Mr P said this is what has happened to Cynergys customers but at 
least this other business advises that it may offer different rates on new accounts, whereas 
Cynergy doesnt do this.
I can see that a new ISA issue with new interest rates isnt set out in Cynergys terms and 
conditions, but Mr P has said in his submissions that the only difference between Cynergys 
ISA issues is the interest rate and so what other reason would there be for a new issue. 
I havent found that Cynergy has acted towards Mr P in breach of its terms and conditions. 
And we cant require Cynergy to amend them as Mr P wishes as this concerns Cynergys 
policies, which are not within our remit to direct upon. This is the role of the FCA as the 
financial regulator. It is open to Mr P to contact the FCA with his concerns, and the FCA can 
decide if it wishes to review the matter, though it wont consider an individual complaint.  
As I havent found that Cynergy has treated Mr P differently from any of its other customers 
or treated him unfairly, due to the lack of obligation upon it to vary its rates, I am unable to 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman