DRN-4387871
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service provided to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc around his credit 
card and a default registered against him.
What happened
Mr G got into some difficulty making the regular monthly payments on his credit card. The 
card was suspended by HSBC, and it said it wouldnt add interest or charges to the account. 
Eventually a payment plan was agreed but as no payments had been made up to that point 
HSBC started the process towards default and updating Credit Reference Agencies. Mr G 
didnt accept this, he didnt think the default notice should have been issued and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr G was already three months 
behind on his payments before he made arrangements for the payment plan. So, the default 
on the account was always likely to happen. She also said HSBC have to report accurate 
customer default information to Credit Reference Agencies. Our investigator didnt think 
Mr G wouldve done anything different if HSBC had made the default arrangements clearer 
to him during the phone call. But in view of the mistakes made in explaining the issues 
during the call about the credit card default HSBC offered Mr G £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator felt that was fair.
Mr G didnt accept this and asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said he felt that he had six months to make a payment and that he was given the 
impression nothing would happen in the intervening period. He also said as he did agree a 
payment plan there was no reason for HSBC to issue the default notice.
I think its fair to say most credit providers wouldnt put a customers account in default just 
because one payment had been missed. But I accept that three months of non payment is 
often seen as a trigger when such providers usually do take further action.
HSBC did write regularly to Mr G letting him know what they were doing and asking if he was 
able to bring his account up to date. As Mr G wasnt able to clear the outstanding amount, I 
dont think HSBC acted unreasonably or unfairly when it issued the default. Mr G did have 
an opportunity to clear the amount but unfortunately he wasnt able to.
But I do accept that HSBC wasnt as clear as it could have been about these details in a 
telephone discussion with Mr G. Mr G should have been told that the default was still going 
to happen. In view of this HSBC offered to pay Mr G £100 as compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience this caused him. I think thats a fair offer based on the position Mr G 
found himself in once the default had been issued and the Credit Reference Agencies 
updated.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman