DRN-3947221
The complaint
Ms B complains that MBNA Limited declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Act 1974 for a refund of her purchase of a sofa.
What happened
In September 2021 Ms B bought a sofa and paid for it with her MBNA credit card. She says 
that when it was delivered she tried to refuse delivery because it was the wrong colour, and 
one of the cushions was either missing or did not match the sofa (in her letter to MBNA it is 
not clear which). She says the delivery men left the sofa anyway, and promised her that a 
replacement cushion would be sent to her within 24 hours. In fact, the cushion was not sent 
to her within that time, although Ms B says that a replacement cushion was sent to her 
eventually.
Ms B had ordered a charcoal grey sofa, but she says that the one which was delivered is 
navy blue. She also complained that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality. She says that 
within one or two weeks of receiving it, it began to show signs of wear and tear and the 
cushions began to sink. She has provided four photos of the sofa.
The retailer told her in an email that it does not sell blue sofas of the model she had bought, 
and insisted that the sofa is definitely grey. It asked to inspect the sofa to see if it was 
defective, but Ms B did not agree to that as her elderly father was shielding from covid. 
Instead, in May 2022 she asked MBNA for a refund under section 75. But MBNA thought 
that the retailer had done enough, and did not agree to refund her. Being dissatisfied with 
that response, Ms B brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, and asked Ms B to allow an inspection to 
take place. Ms B agreed, and in November 2022 MBNA arranged for the retailer to carry out 
an inspection at no cost to Ms B. However, this inspection did not occur (I will elaborate on 
this below), and Ms B agreed to the investigator reaching a decision without an inspection 
taking place. The investigator concluded that there was not enough evidence that the sofa 
was not of satisfactory quality. She thought that the colour was close enough, and pointed 
out that the retailers terms and conditions explain that there may be slight variations in the 
colour of goods they supply. She did not uphold the complaint. Ms B asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes MBNA jointly and equally liable with the retailer for any breach of contract 
by the retailer. It was an express term of Ms Bs contract that the sofa would be charcoal 
grey, and an implied term that it would be of satisfactory quality. She alleges breaches of 
both terms. So in this decision I have considered whether MBNA dealt with Ms Bs section 
75 claim properly.
Colour
In the photos provided by Ms B, the sofa looks grey to me. I have no reason to doubt the 
retailers claim that they do not sell a navy blue version of that model of sofa. I have seen a 
screenshot of the sofa as shown on the retailers website, and only two colours seem to 
have been available, neither of which is blue. I dont think I would describe the sofa as 
charcoal grey, but I do think that it is similar to the colour Ms B chose, which is the one on 
the right:
In the formation of the contract, I think the colour sample shown was as much a term of the 
contract as the word charcoal, as the sample illustrates what was meant. I do not think that 
any difference between the colour advertised and chosen, and the colour supplied, is great 
enough that I could safely conclude that MBNA was wrong to find that there had been no 
breach of that term of the contract.
Quality
The photos do not suggest to me that the sofa is defective. So I think MBNA was entitled to 
say that an inspection should happen before it would agree that the sofa was defective. But 
it is necessary for me to say a bit more about that, because there was no inspection, and if 
that was MBNAs fault, or the retailers fault, then I might have decided that the failure to 
carry out an inspection ought not to get MBNA off the hook.
The original reason an inspection was not done was, as Ive said, because Ms Bs father 
was shielding from covid. The retailer told her that its staff would wear PPE and keep a safe 
distance. Neither party backed down from its stance.
Sadly, Ms Bs father had passed away by the time Ms B brought this complaint to our 
service, and so this time she agreed to an inspection. Meanwhile, MBNA agreed to arrange 
and pay for the retailers engineer to inspect the sofa. Unfortunately, MBNA was not told that 
Ms B had agreed to an inspection until 19 days later. Two days after that, Ms B was taken 
seriously ill and had to go to hospital. She told the investigator that she was no longer 
available for the engineer to attend her home. But she later said her mother would be 
available for the sofa to be collected, so I think her mother could also have been available to 
let the engineer in. The investigator suggested that as a solution, but Ms B declined, and 
asked for a decision to be made without an inspection. So I do not think that I could fairly 
conclude that MBNA or the retailer failed to have the sofa inspected.
I am therefore satisfied that MBNA was entitled to decide that it did not have enough 
evidence to uphold Ms Bs claim that the sofa was defective.
Delivery
It is not in dispute that there was a problem with one of the cushions, and that Ms B tried to 
reject the sofa when it was delivered. In Ms Bs letter to MBNA she at first describes the 
cushion as incorrect, and then later refers to it as missing. Whatever the issue was, it 
appears to have been resolved by the time she wrote to MBNA, as Ms B says in the same 
letter that the retailer replaced the cushion (although not within the 24-hour timescale given 
by the delivery men).
However, Ms B was entitled to reject the sofa at the point of delivery  she didnt have to 
wait for a replacement. So I have thought about whether I should uphold this complaint on 
the basis that her statutory right to reject the sofa was not honoured, and that MBNA should 
have refunded her for that reason. But as the cushion had already been replaced by the time 
Ms B wrote to MBNA, I think it would be disproportionate if I were to say now that MBNA 
should still have refunded her entire purchase of the sofa.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that MBNA dealt fairly with Ms Bs claim under section 75.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman