DRN-2310615
The complaint
Ms T complains that Unum Ltd turned down her income protection claim.
What happened
Ms T is covered under her employers group income protection policy. The aim of the 
policy is to pay a monthly benefit in the event the insured becomes unable to work 
because of illness or injury. The policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In April 2018, Ms T stopped work. She submitted a claim to Unum, however this was 
turned down because Unum didnt think she met the policy definition of incapacity, as 
required by the policy terms. Ms T disagreed with Unums findings and so brought a 
complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2020. My provisional findings said:
The policy defines incapacity as:
For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or 
injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured 
occupation, and
(b) the member is not following any 
occupation then the member is incapacitated.
Insured occupation is defined as:
means the gainful occupation that the member was actively undertaking for the 
employer immediately prior to incapacity.
The deferred period was 30 April 2018 until 29 October 2018.
For me to require Unum to accept the claim, Ms T would need to show that she was 
unable to perform the role she was doing because of illness throughout the deferred 
period. Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence.
Prior to stopping work, Ms T had been taking anti-depressant medication but was 
reducing this.
After stopping work in April 2018, Ms T was signed off by her GP with work-related 
stress. Her anti-depressant medication was re-started, though some changes were later 
made to it due to side effects.
Ms T was assessed over the phone by an occupational health adviser in May 2018. The 
adviser said Ms T reported that she had been experiencing symptoms of work-related 
stress since December 2017, which she had attributed to be predominantly related to 
perceived workplace concerns. It was noted that Ms T could perform her normal daily 
activities without restriction, however the symptoms of work-related stress had 
significantly impacted her mood, appetite, sleep concentration, confidence, motivation and 
social interaction. The adviser concluded that Ms T wasnt fit for work due to her 
symptoms of work-related stress.
In June 2018, Ms T was referred for psychological therapy. She had an initial 
assessment the same month and explained that, following an absence from work, she 
returned and had an argument with her manager and felt she hadnt been supported. 
She felt overwhelmed and stopped work because of stress. The therapy service thought 
she was experiencing depression and anxiety reactive to stress and bullying at work. Ms 
T was referred for an extended assessment.
Ms T attended the extended assessment in July 2018 and said she was doing better. 
She reported that because of the issue with her employer, she didnt want to go back to 
work. Following the assessment, it was thought shed benefit from cognitive behavioural 
therapy (CBT). This took place on a group basis, though after that it was thought shed 
benefit from one-to-one sessions.
Also in July 2018 Ms Ts GP thought she had severe anxiety and depression. The 
GP continued to sign her off with work-related stress.
In September 2018 it was noted that Ms T was having weekly counselling sessions. Also 
that month, Ms T had a further telephone assessment with the occupational health 
adviser. The adviser remained of the view that Ms T was not fit for work due to 
symptoms of work- related stress.
Unums company medical officer wrote to Ms Ts GP in November 2018 for some 
more information about her symptoms.
Ms Ts GP responded to Unum on 12 December 2018. The GP said there were issues 
relating to Ms Ts relationship with her manager that had caused anxiety, and that Ms T 
had suffered from depression, anxiety, mood swings and poor sleep since that time. The 
GP thought that Ms Ts relationship with her manager was a trigger factor for her anxiety.
As the investigator has explained, stress in itself isnt considered to be an illness. 
However, it can be a trigger for a mental health condition, such as depression. Based on 
the evidence, it seems to me that this is what has happened in Ms Ts case.
I recognise that the occupational health adviser thought Ms T couldnt work because of 
her symptoms of work-related stress, and also that Ms Ts GP signed her off with work-
related stress. However, the therapy service thought Ms T had depression and anxiety 
that was reactive to stress and bullying at work, and this is supported by the GP who 
also thought Ms T had anxiety and depression which was triggered by the workplace 
problems.
During the deferred period, Ms T had been prescribed anti-depressant medication, 
referred for CBT, and then one-to-one counselling. This is along the lines of what Id 
expect for someone experiencing a mental health condition, rather than work-related 
stress.
Ms Ts symptoms that have prevented her from carrying out her role have been described 
by the occupational health adviser, the therapy service, and her GP. Im satisfied that these symptoms were caused by an illness, rather than an employment issue.
On balance, I think the evidence supports that Ms T was experiencing an illness and that 
this prevented her from carrying out her role throughout the deferred period.
Ms Ts representative says that the policy was mis-sold to her, and she wasnt given any 
independent advice prior to taking out the policy. However, the policy wasnt sold to Ms T 
by Unum, it was sold by Unum to her employer (who is the policyholder). If Ms T has any 
concerns about the information she was given about the cover before deciding to join the 
scheme, she should raise these with her employer.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make.
Ms T didnt make any further comments before the deadline I gave.
Unum responsed with the following points:
It clarified that a financial adviser sold the policy to Ms Ts employer.
It provided further comments from its company psychiatrist that it would like me to 
take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unums company psychiatrist has said that in the lead up and throughout the deferred 
period, the picture was of work-related stress, leading to distress and lowered mood. He 
thought work-related stress appears to have remained a barrier to Ms T returning to work. 
He further said that, although non-specific features of work-related stress can appear to 
have similarities with formal mental disorders, it is not a formal mental disorder, but rather 
a natural reaction and is not classified as mental disorder. 
The company psychiatrist also said that the issue of work-related stress was recorded by 
Ms T, the GP, the occupational health adviser (OHA) and the local mental health services 
- and that the OHA was clear that away from the workplace Ms T was functioning well, 
implying the primary problem was not one of a pervasive formal mental disorder. He said 
there was no doubt that Ms T experienced distress but thought that on the balance of 
probabilities, this was not due to a formal mental disorder but was instead primarily due to 
work-related stress. 
Finally, the company psychiatrist said that antidepressants are used in various conditions 
and prescription of an antidepressant, whilst suggestive that someone suffers from 
depression, is not diagnostic. He said that interventions such as antidepressant 
medication and CBT can overly medicalise work-related stress and divert from 
addressing non-medical issues in the workplace. 
Ive taken into account Unums companys psychiatrists comments, which are useful. I 
accept this is a balanced case because, as he has said, the issue of work-related stress 
has been referred to by various health practitioners. Nevertheless, I cant ignore that 
Ms Ts GP described her as having severe anxiety and depression, and that this 
diagnosis was supported by the therapy services. 
I accept Unums company psychiatrists point that work-related stress isnt a formal 
mental disorder. However, Ms Ts condition was described as depression, which is a formal mental disorder. I remain of the view that the treatment Ms T received was what Id 
expect to see for someone with depression, rather than merely work-related stress. 
Consequently, I remain of the view that Ms T meets the policy definition of incapacity, for 
the same reasons as Ive explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to pay Ms Ts claim. It 
should add interest to any outstanding benefit payments at the simple rate of 8% per 
annum from the date the benefit payment was due until the date of settlement.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman