DRN-3025083
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited have 
unfairly declined its claim for professional indemnity insurance. 
Mr L, who is a director of L, brings the complaint on Ls behalf. For ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer to Mr L, where I mean his company L.
What happened
In January 2018, one of Mr Ls clients sought help to apply for a benefit under a government 
scheme. However, the deadline was missed and the application rejected. Mr L appealed that 
decision without success. I understand a further application was successfully submitted. But 
by the time this happened, the benefit under the government scheme had reduced. 
In February 2020, Mr L received a letter from a solicitor acting for this client. It claimed 
around £2,000,000 in damages, which it said was a result of Ls negligence in missing the 
deadline. Mr L made a claim to Hiscox, who were providing his professional indemnity 
insurance at the time. 
Hiscox declined the claim. They said that the policy excluded cover for claims arising from 
alleged failings that Mr L was aware of before the start of the period of insurance. Mr L 
complained but Hiscox maintained their position. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator considered the complaint but 
didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision. 
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr Ls policy says:
We will not make any payment for any claim or part of a claim or loss directly or indirectly 
due to
25. anything, including any actual or alleged shortcoming in your work or that of your sub-
contractor, or any dispute in connection with a contract, likely to lead to a claim or criminal 
proceedings being made against you, which you knew or ought reasonably to have known 
about, before the start of the period of insurance.
I dont think this term is unfair and similar terms are common across many types of 
insurance. The policy is designed to cover against the risk of something happening in the 
future, so I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to exclude cover for things that happened 
or began before the policy was in place. 
Our investigator concluded that it was fair for Hiscox to rely on this term to decline the claim. 
She thought that Mr L ought to have known (prior to being covered by Hiscox) that the failure 
to meet the deadline for his client was likely to lead to a claim.
Irrespective of whether or not the missed deadline was likely to result in a claim, there is a 
further policy term which I believe to be relevant and which Hiscox have highlighted in their 
submissions on this complaint. 
The policy says: If during the period of insurance, and as a result of your business 
activityany party:
1. Brings a claim against you for:
a. Negligence or breach of a duty of care arising from the performance of any 
design or specification, feasibility study, technical information calculation or 
survey performed by you or on your behalf by sub-contractors;
b. Infringement of intellectual property rights including copyright, trademark or moral 
rights or any act of passing-off;
c. Breach of a confidence or misuse of any information, which is either confidential 
or subject to statutory restrictions on its use:
d. Failure to warn that there is a deficiency in any design undertaken by another 
party; or
2. Refers to a dispute arising directly from matters covered above to adjudication under 
the Housing Grants Construction and Regeneration Act 1996 or any similar or 
successor legislation;
we will indemnify you
The claim being made against L isnt in relation to any of the issues listed above. It is in 
relation to an alleged administrative failure to submit an application for the client prior to a 
deadline. So, even if I were to accept Mr Ls submissions in relation to whether or not the 
missed deadline was likely to lead to a claim (which for clarity I make no finding on), it is 
clear from the policy that such a claim would not be covered. 
Hiscox also raised further reasons why they believed the claim wasnt covered. But as Im 
satisfied it has been fairly declined in relation to the above term, I dont need to comment on 
the other reasons to decide this complaint. 
Overall, I dont think Hiscox have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly when declining 
the claim. And as such, Im not intending to direct them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Hiscox responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision. Mr L made some further 
comments which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has submitted an email from his broker which says: We are happy that the scope of 
the cover under the Hiscox policy covered your activities the declinatures were based on a 
failure to notify the matter as circumstances.
Ive considered the opinion of the broker, but Im still satisfied that the claim being made isnt 
something that the policy covers. The relevant terms are listed above and I dont think a 
claim against L for negligence due to an administrative failure to submit an application falls 
within those terms. I appreciate Hiscoxs declinature of the claim focussed on other reasons. 
But there is no merit in discussing these as Im satisfied that Hiscoxs actions were fair in 
relation to the above terms.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman