DRN-3593868
The complaint
Miss P complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted her a  
credit card that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss P entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit with an Aqua credit 
card account. The account was opened in November 2017 with a credit limit of £450. There 
followed five credit limit increases, between September 2019 and September 2021, when 
the credit limit was increased from £1,150 to £5,900. 
Miss P says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account. She says if it had, it would have seen that it wasnt affordable for her as she didnt 
have enough income to make the repayments and was already in financial difficulty. 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay shouldnt have increased Miss Ps credit limit in 
April 2021. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Miss Ps financial circumstances before granting her the account. It also asked a 
number of questions about Miss Ps financial situation. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
The credit check NewDay completed looked into Miss Ps financial circumstances. New Day 
also relied on information Miss P gave on her application. Miss P said she had an annual 
income of around £13,800. There was no evidence of Miss P having any defaults, payment 
arrangements or arrears elsewhere, although the checks showed she had around £1,500 in 
outstanding unsecured credit. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate 
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the opening checks showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss P. I 
say this because, given the available information about her income and debt, it was likely 
that the relatively modest opening credit limit of £450 would be affordable for her. I therefore 
dont think New Day acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
first, second and third credit limit increases
The initial £450 opening credit limit was increased to £1,150 in September 2019, then to 
£1,900 in September 2020 and then to £2,900 in January 2021.
I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken 
steps to find out more about any changes to Miss Ps income as well as the level of 
committed expenditure she had at the point of each of these increases. I cant be sure 
exactly what NewDay would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I 
think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss Ps bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I agree 
with our adjudicator that these show Miss Ps committed expenditure, including her normal 
living costs, rent, utilities food and car expenses, as well as existing borrowing, would have 
typically left her with enough disposable income. For the September 2019 increase it looks 
like she had an average of around £210 of disposable income available each month, for the 
September 2020 increase it looks the figure would have been around £760 and for the 
January 2021 increase it looks to have been around £600. All of this suggests that Miss P  
had enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable repayments 
towards her new credit facility. Had NewDay completed proportionate checks for each credit 
limit increase, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act unfairly 
by granting Miss P each of these three credit limit increases. 
Fourth and fifth credit limit increases
In April 2021 Miss Ps credit limit increased to £4,400 and in September 2021 to £5,900. 
Again, I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have found out more about 
Miss Ps committed expenditure for each increase. I cant be sure exactly what NewDay 
would have found out if it had asked at each of those points. So in the absence of anything 
else, I again think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Miss Ps bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the April 2021 lending decision. 
These show that Miss Ps monthly income at this time was averaging out at about £700 per 
month. But given that her monthly outgoings and committed expenditure was averaging out 
at around £1,150 per month there would be a significant shortfall. Its therefore reasonably 
clear that by this time Miss P didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford the 
additional borrowing.
It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that NewDay ought not to have increased Miss Ps 
credit limit after it gave her the increase to £2,900 in January 2021. 
NewDay responded to our adjudicators view with a number of questions about Miss Ps 
financial situation. So I asked our adjudicator to go back to Miss P for some more 
information. Miss P immediately responded by sending in details of an ISA account and 
another bank account she held. She says she used these to hold money she needed as a 
student, paying in her student loan and other funds and then paying these sums back out 
into her current account to help fund her regular outgoings and credit commitments. Miss P also confirmed that she had recently taken out further hire purchase credit to pay for a car, 
her previous car having been written off. 
Whilst I agree that we now have a fuller picture of Miss Ps financial arrangements, I havent 
seen anything else to suggest that Miss Ps overall position was any better than we 
previously understood it to be. I therefore still agree with our adjudicator that she was 
struggling financially at the time she was given the fourth credit rise in April 2021.
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
NewDay shouldnt have increased Miss Ps credit limit from £2,900 in January 2021. 
NewDay therefore needs to do the following. 
Rework Miss Ps account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £2,900. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Miss P to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss P has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ps credit file from 
11 January 2021 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ps 
credit file from 11 January 2021.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman