DRN-2207433
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr S discovered a waste water blockage at his property. He investigated and 
found that the pipe had collapsed. So he contacted his insurer, UKI, to make a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
UKI sent its contractor to inspect the drainage system and provide a report, which it did. The 
report said the cause of the failure of the waste water system was the delamination and 
deformation of pitch fibre pipes. The report also included a recommendation that policy 
liability be repudiated. UKI declined the claim.
Mr S complained to UKI because he felt its decision to decline the claim was unfair. UKI said 
the damage to the pipes was an inevitable consequence of the design of pitch fibre pipes, 
and that they considered this a gradually-operating cause, not accidental damage. It said 
Mr Ss policy didnt provide cover for this.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and said that as the damage had happened gradually, UKI wasnt 
being unreasonable in declining the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly here. Ill explain why.
The issue I need to decide is whether UKI was entitled to decline Mr Ss claim, and whether 
thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. Ill first address the cover 
Mr Ss policy actually provides in relation to pipes and drains. 
Page 9 of Mr Ss policy document says hes covered for accidental damage to underground 
drains, pipes, cables and tanks which you are legally responsible for and which provide 
services to and from your home. But like all insurance policies, this cover is subject to 
certain terms, conditions and exclusions. Page 10 of the policy document defines Accidental 
Damage as sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens unexpectedly. 
So in deciding whether UKI was entitled to decline the claim, I need to determine whether 
the cause of the damage to Mr Ss pipes was covered under his policy. For a claim to 
succeed, its for the policy-holder to show that an insured peril has occurred. UKI has said 
the event which took place was not insured because no cover is provided for gradually-
operating causes.
UKI has pointed to page 7 of Mr Ss policy document which says Just like most insurers we 
dont cover Any damage caused gradually. UKI has further said that the cause of the 
damage to Mr Ss pipes was the delamination and deformation of pitch fibre apparatus. This 
is an inevitable consequence of the design of this system and considered a gradually-
operating cause. And while UKI has also referred to wear and tear, Im satisfied that UKI 
has declined the claim on the basis of gradual deterioration. 
But its also said the policy only covers accidental damage. Its given examples of this, 
including damage caused by tree roots or by excavation. And from what Ive seen, its clear 
the damage in this case wasnt accidental  because it wasnt sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected. I say this because looking at the drainage contractors report, after using CCTV 
they found that the system was in very poor order, with restrictions and blistering to the pipes 
which made it impassable in places with the CCTV camera. 
Based on the report and supporting information Ive seen in this case, Im satisfied the 
damage to Mr Ss pipes was most likely caused by deterioration of the pitch fibre. And its 
relatively well known that pitch fibre pipes can be more susceptible to damage, and that not 
only does this worsen gradually over time, but it is also inevitable. So this cannot be 
described as unexpected damage, even if it was not expected as such by Mr S. Therefore, I 
dont think the damage thats occurred to Mr Ss waste water pipe meets the definition of 
accidental damage, which means it isnt covered under that part of the policy. And I cant see 
that its covered anywhere else in Mr Ss policy. So Im satisfied UKI fairly declined the claim.
Mr S has said there wasnt a specific exclusion in the policy relating to pitch fibre. But there 
doesnt have to be. The fact that the policy doesnt cover damage which occurs gradually 
over time means the cause of this blockage wasnt insured. Mr S has said he wouldve 
expected that a failure of material, which is no fault of his own, should be dealt with by the 
insurer. And while I understand why he feels it is unfair for this not to be covered, insurance 
policies arent generally designed to cover everything that could go wrong, nor do they have 
to specify all the materials and scenarios to which the gradual damage exclusion would 
apply. 
I appreciate Mr S says he didnt know about the condition of the drains so he thinks the 
gradual damage exclusion has been unfairly applied here. But I dont think his lack of 
knowledge about the gradual deterioration of the pitch fibre pipes makes a difference in the 
specific circumstances of this case, because this isnt the only reason Mr Ss claim was 
declined. UKI has also pointed to the fact that the policy only provides cover for accidental 
damage to pipes. And Ive already established the damage that occurred in this case wasnt 
accidental. Instead the evidence shows itd been happening gradually and for some time. So 
it never wouldve been covered under the policy he has with UKI  whether he knew about it 
or not when buying the house. So these points dont change my conclusion.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, and I do very much sympathise with him 
in these unfortunate circumstances. But Im afraid that based on the terms of his policy, and 
for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied UKI hasnt declined the claim unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ifrah MalikOmbudsman