DRN-2261140
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for 
contents stolen during a burglary. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A had home insurance with UKI. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, 
Ill refer only to Mrs A throughout my decision.
Mrs A claimed under her home insurance for damage to her house caused during a break-in. 
She also claimed for items stolen but UKI told her the policy didnt provide contents cover. 
Mrs A didnt agree and pointed out that her schedule showed a discount on both buildings 
and contents for a 12 months no claim period. She said that she had asked for contents 
cover several years earlier, after her extended family experienced a burglary. UKI was still of 
the view that Mrs A didnt have contents cover and declined her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He couldnt see anything in the evidence 
provided to show that Mrs A had contents cover with UKI. Nor could he see anything to show 
that Mrs A had asked for cover which UKI failed to put in place.
Mrs A didnt agree. She provided copies of policy documents which she thought 
demonstrated she had contents cover.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The circumstances of the burglary and Mrs As claim under her buildings cover are not 
disputed. This is a straightforward dispute about whether or not Mrs A had contents cover 
with UKI. However, while it seems a simple issue, its clear that it still causes Mrs A distress 
and considerable upset. Im sorry to hear that. 
So, Ive looked at whether UKI acted fairly when it declined her claim for contents.
Both UKI and Mrs A provided the policy renewal schedule for the year before and the year of 
the burglary. The schedules show that Mrs A was covered for buildings and legal protection. 
Neither party has provided a policy document for before, during or after the claim which 
shows Mrs A had contents cover with UKI. Based on the information included in the policy 
schedule, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for UKI to decline Mrs As claim because she 
didnt have contents cover with it.
 
Mrs A pointed out that the renewal document shows a discount for both buildings and 
contents due to no claims. She says the contents discount isnt there for policies which dont 
include contents. UKI accepted it was misleading, and I agree. But I dont think what 
mightve been a simple mistake, or a badly worded generic letter, is a reason to ask UKI to 
provide cover. 
Mrs A says she specifically asked UKI to include contents cover around eight years earlier. I 
understand it was important to her because shed seen the effect a burglary had on her 
extended family. However, due to the passage of time, UKI doesnt have a call recording or 
any other record of her request. I dont think thats unreasonable. However, given that Mrs A 
made a specific request to add cover, I wouldve thought shed want to make sure it was 
included. 
The renewal letter and schedule ask Mrs A to check the details of the cover for accuracy 
before the renewal date, so I think it wouldve been reasonable for her to check and contact 
UKI if the contents cover shed asked for hadnt been added. This same opportunity was 
available to Mrs A at every renewal. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold UKI responsible 
for the absence of contents cover in the circumstances.
Finally, Mrs A says she paid for the contents cover in her premium each year. Ive looked at 
the premium for the year of the burglary and the year after and they are broadly similar. The 
renewal for the year after the burglary doesnt make any mention of a no claims discount for 
contents, although it does for the buildings. While I cant say that it is conclusive evidence 
because prices fluctuate, it does suggest that Mrs A had only paid a premium for buildings 
insurance in the year of her claim. Im persuaded that this evidence supports UKIs position 
that she didnt have, or pay for, contents insurance.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI fairly declined Mrs As claim because she didnt have contents 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman