DRN-3143763
The complaint
Mrs S, through her representative, says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mrs S took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of her borrowing follows.
loan taken repaidvalue, 
£term, 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 19/08/2019 13/02/2020 1,000 18 228.56 4,114.08
2 06/05/2020 17/09/2020 300 18 68.57 1,234.26
Mrs S says she wasnt given adequate information to make an informed decision about the 
loans. And Loans 2 Go didnt assess her personal circumstances in full to understand how 
repaying the loans would affect her. She had to take out another loan as a result to 
consolidate her debts.
Our adjudicator found that the loans should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go did 
not respond appropriately to the information it gathered during its checks and did not make 
fair lending decisions.
Loans 2 Go accepted that it was wrong to give loan 2 to Mrs S but it disagreed with the 
adjudicators assessment for loan 1. It said none of the defaults on Mrs Ss credit file were 
recent and for loan 1 she would have ongoing credit commitments of £600 which was not 
excessive given her declared income of £2,100.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. There is no longer any dispute about loan 2 as Loans 2 Go agrees it 
should not have given it to Mrs S so I will focus my findings on loan 1. I will though include 
consider loan 2 when setting out what the lender now needs to do. 
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs S required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs S. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mrs S. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ss first loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mrs S before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It says it completed income verification
with a third party to check her minimum income and I can see it checked a recent payslip. It 
increased her declared expenditure to ensure it was reasonable. It checked Mrs Ss credit 
file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about 
the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation.
From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mrs S had sufficient disposable income
to afford the loan.
I think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate given the size and term
of the loan, but I dont think it made a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered.
Loans 2 Go argues that whilst it knows there were defaulted accounts on Mrs Ss credit file 
they were not recent. I accept that historical adverse data is not a reason to automatically 
decline an application, but I think in this case there were indications that Mrs S could still be 
having problems managing her money. Whilst a number of the defaults were historic and 
settled, there were three unsettled accounts that Mrs S had fallen into significant arrears on 
 two had then defaulted (one in 2017 and one in 2018) and one seems to have been in an 
arrangement to pay since at least 2017, with a significant outstanding balance of £3,122 and 
the current payment status unknown.  I note loan 1 was to be used to consolidate some of Mrs Ss debts. I cant see the lender 
asked which debts she planned to settle to understand whether it would be financially 
beneficial or harmful for her to take out a high-cost loan to do this. As Loans 2 Go does not 
seem to have discounted any the loan or hire purchase monthly repayments for Mrs Ss 
active credit accounts to reach its total of £600 for her ongoing credit commitments, it seems 
to have assumed she would repay some of the older defaulted debt. But it's likely Mrs S 
wasnt paying any interest on such debts so this may have been financially harmful. I find it 
was irresponsible of Loans 2 Go to lend without getting the assurances it needed that 
lending to Mrs S would not cause her adverse financial consequences. 
As the adjudicator said, giving loan 1 also increased Mrs Ss monthly credit commitments
to a relatively significant proportion of her monthly income increasing the likelihood that Mrs 
S would struggle to maintain the loan repayments over an 18-month period. 
It follows that I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 1 to Mrs S.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Ill explain why. Mrs S says Loans 2 Go failed to provide her with 
enough information to allow her to make an informed decision about taking out the loans.
The lender has sent in copies of the Pre-Contract Credit Information and Loan
Agreement that she signed electronically. These documents gave her the terms of the loan,
including the interest rate, the interest payable and the monthly repayment. I accept the 
interest rates were high, but she had to actively engage in the application process for the 
loans, so I think its likely that at the time she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I 
havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mrs S unfairly or 
breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and 
charges will be refunded as the conclusion of this investigation is that neither loan should 
have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs S to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on two loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loans and treat all the payments
Mrs S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ss loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman