DRN-3911085
The complaint
Miss A has complained about her car insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it has 
accused her of fraud, cancelled her policy and declined her claim for theft.
What happened
Miss A was driving her car when it started to lose power and she had to pull over in a busy 
road tunnel. A passing driver in a recovery truck and the police stopped to help, with the car 
moved to a safe place where Miss As roadside recovery provider collected it from  taking it 
to the road on which Miss As uncle lives.
Miss A saw the car in the days after it was taken to her uncles street, accessing it to take 
items from it. She intended to have the car checked by a mechanic, and her partner began 
trying to arrange that. On 11 November 2021 Miss A found the car was missing, she 
checked with a local recovery company but it hadnt been towed. She reported a theft to the 
police and UKI. 
UKI began investigating the claim. It interviewed Miss A and her uncle, but not Miss As 
partner. UKI noted that there were some discrepancies in these accounts. UKI had the keys 
assessed, which Miss A still had possession of. UKI noted that as Miss A had said she had 
used the key fob to lock the car, the car couldnt have been stolen without the alarm 
sounding, and the car couldnt have been driven away as it had broken down. It also felt the 
car couldnt have been subject to a relay theft (where thieves use gadgets to intercept and 
mimic the signals of the car and key), as Miss A had the key with her, it wasnt left with her 
uncle, near the cars location. 
On 2 February 2022 UKI wrote to Miss A. It said that it felt she had knowingly and 
dishonestly given it false information with a view to making a financial gain. It said it wouldnt 
deal with the claim further and would be cancelling all Miss As policies with it. On 
28 February 2022, UKI confirmed that the details in the 2 February 2022 letter were its final 
response on the matter. Subsequently, on 28 March 2022, UKI cancelled Miss As policy for 
her stolen car. 
Miss A complained to us. And UKI clarified that it had cancelled the policy due to a 
non-payment of premium of £38.81.
Our Investigator didnt think UKI had done enough to support a finding of fraud. She thought 
it should continue to consider the claim and pay £150 compensation. 
Miss A was satisfied by that outcome. But UKI objected to it. 
UKI said that Miss A had not shown how a theft could have occurred. It went over the 
discrepancies between what Miss A and her uncle had said and indicated it just wasnt 
happy with the reported circumstances  for example, it felt the car should have been 
recovered to a garage, not the street of Miss As uncle. It said the car wasnt driveable and 
the manufacturer had confirmed that if it had been lifted onto a truck or towed, the alarm 
would have gone off. UKI asked for an Ombudsmans consideration and the complaint was 
passed to me.
I was minded to uphold it  to a greater extent than that expressed by our Investigator, but 
for similar reasons. In short, I felt, as our Investigator had, that UKI had not done enough to 
support its finding of fraud. So I issued a provisional decision setting out my views and 
explaining what I felt was needed to put matters right. My provisional findings were:
UKI has said that Miss A has not shown how this theft occurred. I think UKI has 
misunderstood here the extent to which a policyholder has to show they have a claim. They 
only initially have to show on the face of it that a loss covered by the policy has likely 
occurred. And Miss A did that here or UKI wouldnt have begun investigating it. And UKI did 
not then decline the claim on the basis that Miss A had not shown shed had a theft. It chose 
instead to accuse Miss A of fraud.
 
UKI knows that when an insurer seeks to rely on an argument of fraud to decline a claim and 
cancel a policy (Ill come onto cancellation later as Im aware that technically UKI cancelled 
for non-payment not fraud), the insurer has to support that with strong evidence. That is 
because fraud is a serious accusation which can have significant implications for its 
policyholder. Implications that may impact their wider life and are not just restricted to the 
cover in question or even just any wider insurance provisions. It is rare that some 
discrepancies alone will be enough to satisfy this service that a finding of fraud is likely fair 
and reasonable. 
Ive looked at the discrepancies UKI has referenced here. I am not persuaded they amount 
to any more than two people recalling things differently, and where one of those two people 
clearly has little interest and/or paid little attention to the circumstances which occurred and 
are being asked about. I say that not least because Miss As uncle is clearly unaware of 
simple, often known family details such as Miss As last name and her marital status. 
Further, both Miss A and her uncle were interviewed by professional claim investigators who 
were assessing their behaviour during their interviews, along with their responses to the 
questions asked of them. The investigators found both Miss A and her uncle to be genuine, 
and had no concerns that either of them were lying or trying to hide something. But the 
investigators did note that Miss As uncles memory of the incident, particularly in respect of 
dates, was not clear. 
I also think that it was somewhat unfair of UKI to expect Miss A to be able to account for the 
discrepancies between her and her uncles account. Looking at one as an example  Miss A 
said the breakdown, with the car being taken to her uncles street, occurred on 21 October, 
whereas her uncle  whose memory as to dates was established as unclear  said it was 
8 November. Miss A couldnt reasonably add to that to explain why he gave a different date. 
But Miss A had confirmed visiting her uncle on 8 November 2021 and was able to show the 
recovery company had collected her car on 21 October 2021. If UKI had wanted to review 
the dates and where the car was taken to in more detail, it could have gained authority from 
Miss A to contact the recovery company. UKI could also have interviewed Miss As partner. 
UKI has said it didnt think that would add worth to its enquires. However, both Miss A and 
her uncle talk of the partners involvement both in organising repairs and being a 
go-between, to an extent, for them. Talking to the partner may well have allowed UKI to 
show whether the discrepancies it had found were likely the result of two different peoples 
memories, or an indication that something more serious, such as fraud, was likely occurring. 
That would have been a fair and reasonable thing for UKI to do. But UKI chose not to 
undertake any other interviews, and the only other investigation route it took was to have a 
specialist assess the keys for the car. When a car is stolen, insurers will often assess any remaining keys to a car. UKI took that 
action here. But I think UKI hasnt taken a reasonable view of the results of that assessment. 
The two main conclusions that UKI has drawn from the report are that the key fobs would 
have had to have been in close proximity to the car for it to have been subject to a relay 
theft and that with the car being locked the alarm would have sounded if it was broken into or 
moved. Regarding the first point UKI has said that as Miss A took the keys with her a relay 
theft wouldnt have been possible. And in respect of the second UKI seems to think that an 
alarm going off would have deterred the thieves and/or that no alarm was heard going off, so 
the car cant have been stolen in that way.
I note that Miss A did take the car key with her when she left her uncles address. But in her 
statement she explains that she placed the key in her bag. Miss A goes onto explain that she 
visited her uncles home several times in the days before the car was noticed as missing. So 
I dont think the fact that Miss A kept the key with her, and that she does not live on the road 
the car was stolen from, means the car could not have been subject to relay theft. 
Particularly given that it is not known when exactly the car was taken. 
The fact of the car alarm likely sounding if the car was broken into or moved does not 
necessarily mean that the car is unlikely to have been stolen. Given the right circumstances, 
thieves can overcome alarms and UKI hasnt shown that couldnt have happened here. 
Further, UKI has said it did not obtain a copy of the police report. And, as I noted, it only 
interview Miss A and her uncle  so it seems it didnt complete any enquiries in the area the 
car was stolen from. So UKI doesnt actually know whether the alarm did or didnt sound. 
UKI has also referred to the fact that thieves are unlikely to have been able to drive the car 
away as it had broken down. But even if it seems that the car was not lifted or towed away, 
I dont think driving it was precluded. The report of the breakdown was it had lost power and 
wasnt safe for Miss A to drive  not that it wouldnt start or function at all.
Overall then, with some discrepancies  which to me dont seem to amount to anything 
much and which could have been investigated further by UKI  and some potential concerns 
from UKI about how likely it is that a theft could have occurred, I dont think UKI has done 
enough to support its finding of fraud. As such I think it acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
accusing Miss A of fraud, telling her it was cancelling her policy for that reason and declining 
her claim. 
In my findings above Ive referenced some enquiries that I think UKI could reasonably have 
undertaken. I think UKI should reasonably have thought about that before taking the step of 
accusing Miss A of fraud. It isnt reasonable that it now gets a second bite at the cherry so 
to speak, by undertaking further investigations. So I think UKI must now remove the record 
of the fraud and settle the claim, with interest* being paid on any settlement amount from the 
date of loss until settlement is made.
Whilst I dont know why Miss A didnt pay the outstanding £38.81 of her policy premium, UKI 
had told her it was cancelling her policy. And usually when that happens in respect of fraud, 
the policy is cancelled to the date of the alleged fraud  in this case that would likely have 
been the date of the claim. Its unusual for the policy to remain in place and whilst an insurer 
will usually withhold the premiums paid, they wont usually demand that any remaining 
premium is met  that is because the effect of the cancellation for fraud is that the policy is 
rescinded and neither party is obligated to its terms anymore. So Im really unclear why this 
cancellation happened in the way that it did here. It looks to me as if the situation wasnt 
managed properly by UKI. But Im satisfied that, but for UKIs unfair accusation of fraud, the 
policy would have been paid. So I think that, fairly, the cancellation must be revoked and the 
policy reinstated. If the £38.81 is still outstanding, this can be deducted from any claim 
settlement made. Because UKI unfairly accused Miss A of fraud she has been without settlement for her car, 
and without use of a car. I understand that this has been difficult and likely costly for her as 
she has young children. She also, around the time of the fraud allegation, had a need to 
attend hospital appointments. Im satisfied that UKI should compensate Miss A for the loss of 
use of her car from 28 February 2022. This was the date it confirmed its final response on 
the claim, and which I have found was unfair and unreasonable. No claim is ever settled 
straightaway and I think UKI would always have needed to investigate the circumstances 
here. Im also mindful that, for a time, Miss A did have the benefit of a courtesy car. So 
I think requiring UKI to compensate Miss A, at our common rate of £10 per day, from 
28 February 2022 until settlement is made, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. 
I think it has been quite upsetting for Miss A to have been accused of fraud. And I think she 
has also felt at a loss as to how to resolve things because, as I noted above, she couldnt 
account for the different version of events given by her uncle. I think £250 compensation is 
fairly and reasonably due in the circumstances here. 
UKI queried my loss of use award. In that respect UKI said I shouldnt be making an award 
that goes beyond the point of its final response letter dated 28 February 2022. It also said it 
wanted to be sure that I had understood the concerns it has about how the car could have 
been stolen. UKI added: 
That the car could not have been stolen by use of a gadget as the key report showed the 
fob battery was empty and it would have needed power for a gadget to have been used 
on it/the car.
In any event, Miss A was not in the area of the car with the key.
The car was recovered to Miss As uncles address because it wouldnt start.
Its improbable that a thief, who happened to be driving a low loader came upon the car, 
or tried to start it, found it would not and went back to get a low loader to return in order 
to complete the theft.
Miss A should be asked to explain why someone would want to steal a car which would 
not start.
Miss A said shed struggled financially following UKIs allegation of fraud and decline of her 
claim. She said this had resulted in her missing some payments, which has affected her 
credit file, as has the record of fraud. She asked for the late payments and fraud marker to 
be removed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed UKIs concerns. But Im not persuaded they change my view on this complaint.
I note that the key report is dated 5 January 2022, around two months after the theft. So the 
battery being empty when the key specialist examined it does not mean the fob wasnt 
working at the time of the theft. And UKI does not know that Miss A was not in the cars 
vicinity with the key, therefore, preventing the car being stolen by use of a gadget. Miss A 
had placed the key in her bag and did visit her uncle several times before the car was found 
to be missing  theres no reason to think the key did not remain in her bag and that she did not have the bag with her on the occasions she visited her uncle. Although the key expert 
does also note that if the car had been locked using the key blade alone, the alarm on the 
car wouldnt have been set to function.   
Reviewing Miss As statement of the circumstances leading up to her car being left at her 
uncles address, I think it is by no means clear that the car was not able to function following 
it being recovered. The car had been losing power when Miss A first pulled over. But she 
was then able to start it again after a little while of trying. However, she didnt feel safe 
driving the car and a passing recovery truck took the car to a safer location where Miss As 
partner subsequently tried to start the car again. He was unsuccessful at that point  but it 
isnt clear how long her tried to do that for  and Miss As recovery agent was already on the 
way to her at that point and all concerned knew that even if the car was able to start it could 
only be driven with limited power. I dont think Miss As account reasonably shows that the 
car not being able to start was the driving force behind the car being recovered. And as UKI 
chose not to undertake any other enquiries, such as with the recovery agent or Miss As 
partner who seemed to be organising the repair of the car, that detail is all I have to go on. 
Im not convinced that the car was not functioning at all when it was left at Miss As uncles 
address.
Im surprised by some of UKIs responses to my findings. Id remind it that it accused Miss A 
of fraud and that for this service to find that it was fair and reasonable for it to do that, it has 
to have good cause  not just some concerns about how or why a thief might choose to steal 
a car. And Im surprised that UKI is querying that a car like Miss As does not have worth just 
because it has a fault which may or may not have prevented it starting. But whether or not 
UKI can see that even a faulty car would have worth to thieves, who could fix it and sell it, or 
break it for parts, there is no requirement for Miss A to have to justify why her car might be 
stolen. If UKI had wanted to show that the theft had not taken place  it had the opportunity 
to do that, but instead it ignored some very key and easy to follow lines of enquiry ultimately 
accusing Miss A of fraud and declining the claim. Im satisfied it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in that respect.
I realise that my loss of use award extends beyond the point of UKIs final response letter. 
But I found its decline of the claim on grounds of fraud, and its final response letter which 
maintained that position, to be unfair and unreasonable. Im satisfied that Miss A suffered a 
loss of use of a car as a result of that unfair and unreasonable response to the claim and 
complaint. So I am awarding a remedy for that. 
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Miss A. But I cant reasonably hold UKI 
responsible for payments on other accounts being missed. I dont know they were missed 
because of financial pressure resulting from the fraud allegation and Miss A was still 
responsible for managing her finances. In any event UKI is not able to update Miss As credit 
file. However, Miss A would be able, following this decision, to add a note to her file 
explaining, for example, that an insurer unfairly and unreasonably avoided her policy, as 
verified in a final decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service, which had a short-term 
effect on her finances. Id draw Miss As attention to my section Putting things right, which 
also featured in my provisional decision  I have said that UKI should, or now must if Miss A 
accepts my final decision within the deadline, remove the record of fraud from its own and 
any industry database.
Having reviewed the response to my provisional decision, my view on the complaint and 
what is needed to put thing right has not changed. My provisional findings, along with what 
Ive said here, are now the findings of this my final decision. Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Remove the record of the fraud from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate the policy, also removing the record of the cancellation from its own and any 
industry database.
Settle the claim for Miss As stolen car, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, with a deduction of £38.81 (if this sum is still outstanding) being made from 
any amount due.
Apply interest* to any claim settlement amount due from the date of loss until settlement 
is made.
Pay Miss A £10 a day from 28 February 2022 until settlement is made.
Pay Miss A £250 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman