DRN-4288894
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
(Quilter) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes 
to a Legal and General (L&G) self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
As part of the advice Mr P also transferred a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme 
which was not included within his complaint to Quilter, as such this scheme has not been 
commented on further within this decision.
Mr P is being represented in this complaint however for ease of reference I have referred to 
the complainant as simply Mr P throughout the decision below.
Additionally, I would note that the advice was originally provided by Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Limited, who changed their legal entity to Quilter in 2020. Again, for 
ease of reference I have referred to Quilter throughout the decision below.
What happened
Mr P discussed his pensions and retirement planning with Quilter in 2010. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives.
This fact-find confirmed that Mr P was:
Aged 38, married, with three dependent children.
Employed as an analyst with an overall annual income of £425,000. Net monthly income 
of £12,000 and expenditure of £6,500 resulted in disposable income of £5,500 each 
month.
The family home was valued at £900,000 with Mr P holding £70,000 in investments 
including £18,000 held in a Venture Capital Trust (VCT).
The fact-find confirmed that Mr P was a member of his current employers occupational DC 
scheme and additionally included details of the three other pension schemes which were the 
subject of the advice. Only the two DB schemes have been the subject of complaint and as 
such I have not included detail on the DC scheme which was also transferred at this time.
The pension details were confirmed as:
DB scheme 1  around five years of service with an annual pension income in retirement 
of around £12,500 and a transfer value of around £256,000.
DB scheme 2  three years of service with an annual pension income of £1,404 and 
transfer value of around £36,800.
Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high. 
On 5 March 2010, Quilter advised Mr P to transfer two of his DB pensions schemes and the 
additional defined contribution (DC) pension scheme into a SIPP and invest the proceeds in 
a combination of the eight investment funds below. 
16% - L&G North American Equity Index PMC.
10% - L&G Property fund.
20% - L&G UK Equity Index PMC.
8% - Allianze RCM BRIC Stars fund.
8% - Gartmore China Opportunities fund.
10% - Investec American fund.
20% - M&G Recovery fund.
8% - Cazenove European fund.
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that the transfer gave 
the potential for Mr P to increase his pension provision, would allow Mr P to control the 
pension fund, and offer the potential for self-investment of the transferred funds.
Mr P complained to Quilter in August 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice stating 
that he believed the advice was negligent and had caused financial loss. 
Quilter did not uphold the complaint and stated that it believed Mr P had registered his 
complaint too late. 
Quilter noted that the advice had been given more than six years before the complaint had 
been made. In addition, Quilter argued that Mr P would (or should) have been aware of any 
issues more than three years before his August 2022 complaint. Quilter noted that Mr P 
would have received annual statements from his SIPP provider each year providing updates 
on its value and the potential benefits Mr P could expect in retirement. As such Quilter stated 
that each of these statements would have made Mr P aware of his pension provision and the 
risks associated with it.
With regard to the suitability of the advice, Quilter stated that they believed the advice to be 
suitable. They said that a fact-find and suitability letter had been completed by their adviser 
in 2010 which showed that Mr P was a sophisticated and experienced investor who had 
worked as an analyst for several investment banks from 1994 onwards, and that Mr P had 
agreed and accepted a high level of risk with the transferred funds in return for the possibility 
of higher pension provision in retirement.
Disagreeing with Quilters response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator firstly looked into the timeliness of the complaint to assess whether it fell 
within our jurisdiction. Having looked at the documentation from the time of advice, and the 
subsequent pension statements Mr P received over the following years, our investigator 
concluded that the complaint was one which we could consider.
Whilst the investigator accepted that the annual statements received by Mr P did provide 
valuations and projections, they did not believe that these provided enough information to 
alert Mr P to any potential issues with the advice received in 2010. Additionally, whilst it was 
noted that Mr P changed his retirement age from 60 to 55 in 2015, this again was not 
considered an event which would (or should) have caused any concern to Mr P. As such, the 
investigator concluded that it was only in 2022 when Mr P was made aware of the potential 
mis-selling of pensions that he became aware of a potential problem with the advice he had 
received. As such the complaint had been made in time.Quilter did not agree and reconfirmed their stance that they believed the annual statements 
received by Mr P each year should have provided him with the opportunity to compare his 
SIPP value with the DB benefits given up on transfer and therefore Mr P should have been 
aware of any potential issues much sooner than 2022.
Whilst there was no agreement between Quilter and our investigator regarding our 
jurisdiction, the investigator moved forward and considered the suitability of the advice 
provided to Mr P.
Having looked at the advice documentation and considered the regulations in place in 2010 
our investigator concluded that the advice given to Mr P was suitable. They noted that the 
analysis of the DB pension and the proposed SIPP showed that the transfer was likely to 
provide Mr P with increased benefits in retirement, as well at the additional flexibility and 
investment control desired.
The investigator also considered the suitability of the underlying investments recommended 
by Quilter and concluded that these too were suitable. Mr Ps assessment as a high-risk 
investor was considered reasonable given his investment experience and capacity for loss, 
with the eight investment funds recommended by Quilter considered suitable for a high-risk 
investor.
Mr P did not agree with this outcome and noted that he does not self-invest with any 
investments only ever being made after advice, that he did not recall being provided with any 
of the advice documentation, and that he was not aware of the high-risk nature of the 
transfer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly note that Quilter remain of the opinion that this complaint sits outside of our 
jurisdiction as they believe Mr P made his complaint too late. As such my first consideration 
here is whether this is a complaint that we can consider further.
The rules which set out the time limits we must follow is detailed in the Financial Conduct 
Handbook under DISP 2.8.2.
Here, it states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received.
From the chain of events above it is clear that the advice was given to Mr P more than six 
years before his complaint and as such I have focussed my decision on point 2(b) above  
when Mr P became (or ought reasonably to have become) aware he had cause for concern 
about the advice he had received.
Regarding our jurisdiction I have recached the same conclusion as our investigator. I have 
carefully considered the content of the pension statements Mr P received from both L&G and 
St Jamess Place (to whom the L&G SIPP was transferred in 2015) however do not believe 
the content of these statements would have raised any concerns for Mr P.
The statements received from both L&G and St Jamess Place broadly show a steadily 
increasing pension value over time, with there being no reason for any of these statements 
to cause undue concern to Mr P. Whilst Quilter have stated that each of these statements 
detailed projected retirement benefits and provided Mr P with an opportunity to compare 
these with what would have been provided by the DB schemes, the statements themselves 
do not instruct or suggest to Mr P that such a comparison be made. I dont think the 
statements would have triggered any alarm on Mr Ps part about his pension provision or 
any thoughts that the advice he had been given in 2010 may have been negligent.
In considering that Mr P changed his retirement age (from 60 to 55 years of age) in 2015, I 
do not consider this to be the point at which Mr P should have been aware of any potential 
issues with his pension. Again, the value of the SIPP had grown between 2010 and 2015 
and I do not consider it reasonable to assume that a change in retirement date would have 
prompted Mr P to compare the value of his SIPP to the benefits which would have been 
provided by the DB schemes. I would also note that the fact Mr P was bringing his retirement 
date forward by five years would support the conclusion that Mr P was happy and satisfied 
that his pension provision would support an earlier retirement.
Overall, there is no evidence that Mr P was (or should have been) aware of any potential 
issues with Quilters pension advice before his complaint was made in 2022, as such this 
complaint is one which this service can consider further.
I have therefore gone on to consider the suitability of the advice provided by Quilter in 2010.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have 
reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilters actions here.
Principle 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the DB pension scheme 1 provision at 
retirement was quoted as 4.87% per year (or 5.35% per year if no tax-free cash was taken at 
retirement).
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the DB pension scheme 2 provision at 
retirement was quoted as 6.08% per year (or 6.57% per year if no tax-free cash was taken at 
retirement).
This compares with the discount rate of 6.7% per year for 21 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
attitude to risk and the term to retirement. Whilst I appreciate that actual growth rates may 
have been different to the projected growth rates, the critical yield and the discount rates 
referenced above, what I must consider is whether it was reasonable to give advice based 
on the assumption that these growth rates were achievable. Based on what was known at 
the time, I think Mr P would have been likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than 
the DB schemes at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
I note that the difference between the critical yield and the discount rate is smaller with DB 
scheme 2, however I would still consider this difference sufficient to support the conclusion 
that Mr P was likely to receive greater benefits in retirement. 
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB schemes was 
unsuitable for Mr P.
In addition to the financial reasons supporting the transfer, Mr P was also noted as wanting 
additional control over the pension monies with the option of self-investing. Overall and in isolation I would not consider these objectives to be sufficient justification for the advice and 
loss of the valuable guaranteed benefits forgone by transferring.
It is true that whilst the DB pensions were retained Mr P had no control over the underlying 
investments made by the pension scheme trustees, however he also bore none of the 
investment risk. In addition, whilst the transfers did provide Mr P with the ability to control 
and self-invest the transfer proceeds, this is not something he has actually done since 2010.
Whilst these additional reasons are not considered strong, I have concluded that Mr Ps 
main priority  gaining access to potentially higher pension benefits  was met by the 
transfer and as such the transfer advice is considered suitable.
I have gone on to consider the suitability of the underlying investments recommended by 
Quilter.
Mr P was assessed as having a high attitude to risk. I do not consider this unreasonable 
given the information on file.
Mr P had prior investment experience, holding £70,000 of investments at the time of advice 
including an amount of £18,000 held within a VCT investment. Additionally, Mr P worked 
within financial services as an analyst for an investment bank at the time of advice. Whilst 
Mr P has stated he has never self-invested and only purchased investments after receiving 
advice, I do not consider self-investment itself to be key in providing investment experience. 
More important than self-investing is a consumer holding investments over time and 
experiencing fluctuations in their value over that time.
 
As well as having the relevant knowledge and experience to support a high-risk approach 
with these pension benefits, I have also concluded that Mr P had the adequate capacity to 
take such risks.
Whilst the transferred benefits represented the bulk of Mr Ps pension provision at the time of 
advice, it must be noted that Mr P was also a member of his current employers occupational 
DC pension scheme. 
This was of a relatively small value at the time of advice; however, Mr P had only been with 
his current employer for a short time in 2010. With overall earnings of £425,000 (which Mr P 
confirmed he expected to rise faster than inflation over the following years), disposable 
income of over £5,000 per month, and around 21 years until retirement, Mr P had significant 
time and resources to build considerable additional pension provision alongside the 
transferred funds to support his retirement.
Given this I have concluded that the initial advice to invest in the eight funds detailed above 
was suitable and in line with both Mr Ps attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
I have noted Mr Ps comments that he was not aware of the high risk associated with the 
transferred funds, however I have based my decision on the evidence available which clearly 
documents the high-risk approach being taken. Whilst I appreciate that Mr P has stated he 
was not provided with any of the advice documentation, I would note here that the suitability 
letter is correctly addressed with there being no evidence that this was not sent. In addition, I 
would note here that even after the pension funds were transferred away from the L&G SIPP 
to Mr Ps current St Jamess Place SIPP, the funds have remained invested in a similar 
fashion. The most recent 2023 statement shows the pension is now invested in the six 
investment funds detailed below, and whilst there have been some changes to fund choice 
and asset allocation, the pension monies remain invested predominantly in equities with a 
large proportion in overseas equities - not a strategy which could be considered low risk.24.7% - SJP North American fund.
19.7% - SJP Greater European Prog fund.
18.8% - SJP Global Managed fund.
18.7% - SJP Global Quality fund.
9.9% - SJP Asia Pacific fund.
8.1% - SJP UK fund.
Overall, I have reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Whilst this complaint is 
one which this service can consider, the complaint itself is not upheld with the advice to 
transfer considered suitable. As such, no further action is required of Quilter.
My final decision
As per the rationale above, I am not upholding this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman