DRN-4074400
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account and recorded a marker 
against her with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Shed like the marker removed. 
What happened
Miss R has appointed representatives for this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill solely 
refer to Miss R. 
In May 2021 Miss Rs HSBC account received a payment for £10,000. Over the next week 
Miss R sent three transactions totalling £6,000 out by money transfer service. There was a 
further deposit of £3,000 in cash, and then Miss R sent a payment of £10,000 through 
another money transfer service. 
HSBC received a fraud report about the payment into her account. They restricted access to 
the account and asked Miss R to explain the payment. She told them it was a loan for the 
purchase of a car. Later she said that the funds were repayment for a loan shed given to her 
cousin, but they had sent it through a third party to avoid bank fees. HSBC asked for further 
information but didnt receive a response. In August 2021 they took the decision to close 
Miss Rs account. They also recorded a marker against Miss R with the fraud prevention 
agency CIFAS.
Miss R complained to HSBC. The bank responded to say that they had closed her account 
in line with the terms of her account. They considered further evidence from Miss C about 
the payments but were satisfied with their decision to record the marker with CIFAS.
Unhappy with this answer Miss R referred the complaint to our service. She explained that 
she realised shed been manipulated by her cousin, and she didnt personally know the 
sender of the money. Shed been at a low point in her life and had lost out on the money 
shed passed on.
Our investigator considered this but didnt think HSBC needed to do anything further. They 
said Miss Rs story hadnt been consistent, and there was no evidence of a loan agreement 
with her cousin, or instructions to pass on the money. They explained that HSBC were within 
their rights to close the account, in line with the terms and conditions. They said the bar for 
recording a CIFAS marker was high, and the evidence needed to go beyond mere suspicion. 
But as Miss R hadnt been able to evidence her entitlement to the received payment, they 
felt HBC had enough evidence to record the marker.
Miss R disagreed. She accepted that HSBC had a right to close her account but didnt feel 
the CIFAS marker was fair. She said she was the victim of fraud.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Miss R has requested a phone call before I issue my decision. But having 
reviewed the file, Im satisfied that I have enough evidence to reach a conclusion without 
doing so.
Miss R has also told us that she respects HSBCs decision to close her account. For claritys 
sake Ive considered whether the way HSBC closed her account was reasonable. Overall, 
Im satisfied that it was. Mss R received funds that were later disputed. And its not disputed 
Miss R paid this money away. Its reasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to block the 
account and carry out a review. This is in line with legal and regulatory obligations, and the 
terms of Miss Rs account. Based on the information provided at the time Im satisfied it was 
also reasonable for HSBC to close her account in August. This is also in line with the terms 
of the account. So, I dont see HSBC have been unreasonable here.
The investigator has already outlined the tests that apply in the bank want to record a marker 
with CIFAS, so I dont see the benefit in repeating them in full here. The key consideration 
here is whether HSBC have enough evidence to demonstrate Miss R has been complicit in 
fraud or financial crime. The evidence needs to be clear and rigorous and go beyond mere 
suspicion or concern.
Miss R hasnt provided a consistent explanation for the deposit of the funds in her account. 
She initially told the bank it was a loan, before changing her story to say it was a repayment 
of a loan from her cousin. Shes said she initially panicked when asked about it by the bank. 
But if she had a legitimate reason to expect she was entitled to these funds; it isnt clear why 
she would panic after being asked about them, or why she would tell them something that 
wasnt true.
HSBC, and our service, have asked for further information about the loan from Miss R. But 
nothing has been provided to show either the agreement with her cousin to repay the funds 
into her account, or why the money was subsequently moved on by money transfer. She has 
said she lost all the data on her phone in April 2022, so isnt able to provide this evidence 
now. But I can see HSBC asked her for any further information about this payment in June 
2021, August 2021 and as part of their response to the complaint in December 2021. This 
are reasonable enquiries to establish what happened, and the opportunity for Miss R to 
demonstrate her side of the story.
Considering the information is now wiped, it seems very unlikely any new or relevant 
information will become available now. 
Ive considered what Miss R has said about being manipulated in to making the transactions, 
and Im very sorry to hear of the impact of the marker upon her. But the crux of the matter is 
that Miss Rs account received fraudulent funds, she moved them on herself, and then tried 
to mislead the bank in why she did so. She hasnt been able to provide evidence to support 
her later claim that this was repayment of a loan. On that basis, Im satisfied that HSBC have 
enough evidence to record a marker with CIFAS, and I cant reasonably ask them to remove 
it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 Thom Bennett
Ombudsman