DRN-2378648
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their insurers Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA), 
have unfairly declined their claim for damage under their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M contacted RSA to report that they had a leak from their roof, that also caused 
internal damage, following a storm.  Mr M told RSA that he had already appointed a 
contractor to carry out the repairs. RSA said that it couldnt confirm cover at that stage but 
required photographs and a cause of damage report from Mr and Mrs Ms contractor. 
Mr and Mrs M sent RSA the photographs. On review of them, RSA instructed a surveyor as 
it said that the photographs didnt disclose any damage as a result of a storm. The roof and 
internal rooms were inspected by the surveyor, whose report concluded that the damage 
was caused due to wear and tear and not because of a one-off event of storm. So, RSA 
declined the claim. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded 
that there were no storm conditions around the time of the event and so there was no 
insured peril that would be covered by the policy. She also considered whether RSA 
couldve covered the claim under an accidental damage term. But she didnt see that there 
was such a term included in the policy. So, she couldnt ask RSA to do anything further to 
resolve the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator and requested a decision from an 
ombudsman as they felt that there had been storm conditions and damage had been caused 
to their property as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if RSA ought to have 
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can, reasonably decline 
a claim. 
RSA determined that the event didnt amount to a storm. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy didnt 
define what a storm was. In these circumstances, we would say that a storm can be defined 
as violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
 
I have considered the local weather reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on 
to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that there was rainfall 
around the time of the claim, but it wasnt sufficiently heavy enough.  Also, the wind speed 
wasnt sufficiently strong enough. Looking at the reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was 
present at the time of the event. So, the answer to the first question is no. Consequently, I 
think that it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim, based on no storm being present.
I have next considered whether there were any terms contained within Mr and Mrs Ms policy 
that RSA couldve applied such as accidental damage, to the claim. Having reviewed the 
policy schedule, I can see that Mr and Mrs M had cover that included accidental damage. 
But the exclusion to this cover was that general maintenance and wear and tear, were not 
insured, so I have considered this. 
I have been provided with a report from Mr and Mrs Ms contractor who confirms that there 
was loose cement and re-felting was required.  RSAs surveyor advised that there was 'loose 
cement removed from valleys', which it said indicated that loose mortar had occurred over a 
period of time rather than a one-off event of storm. The report also covered the internal 
damage caused to the property and determined that the internal damage was also not 
covered, as the surveyor said that the damage wasnt as a result of a single identifiable 
storm incident. 
RSA also relied on the photographs sent in by Mr M, to support wear and tear, as it said that 
they showed the condition of the roof prior to works being completed. And as moss as well 
as missing concrete/pointing was present, this showed poor maintenance which wasnt 
covered by the terms of the policy. I think it was more likely than not that the damage to the 
roof was due to wear and tear and not as a result of a storm. 
Finally, I have looked at whether Mr and Mrs M shouldve carried out the repairs prior to RSA 
inspection of the roof. I understand the reasons why Mr and Mrs M carried out the repairs, 
but the terms and conditions of the policy allow them to carry out an emergency repair to 
allow inspection, rather than a full repair, which is what they did. By having done so, I agree 
with RSAs position that it prevented it inspecting the damage before the complete repair 
was carried out.
Overall, I think RSA has dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms claim fairly. I m not satisfied that there 
were storm conditions at the time of the event and any damage caused was as a result of 
gradual wear and tear. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably ask RSA to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman