DRN-2117239
The complaint
Mr M says Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Novaloans provided to Mr M between July 
2017 and August 2018. Mr M borrowed amounts ranging between £100 and £650, to be 
repaid in three or four monthly instalments. There were no significant breaks between the 
loans and the repayments didnt overlap. Mr M repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Novaloans disagreed and so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Novaloans was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Novaloans asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure. Mr M said his 
monthly income was between £1,350 and £1,500. He said his monthly outgoings were 
around £1,000. I think these checks went far enough for loans one to three.
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and his history with Novaloans, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Novaloans shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr M was saying. 
These repayments for these three loans looked affordable for Mr M. So I cant say that 
Novaloans was wrong to have provided them. 
But I think Novaloans should have made better checks from loan four onwards. I say this 
because Mr M was borrowing from Novaloans regularly. This was his fourth loan in eight 
months. And the amounts had increased from £100 to £350. His highest expected monthly 
repayment had increased from £42.52 to £137.73. So I think Novaloans should then have 
checked Mr Ms finances and verified what hed told it about his circumstances before 
lending again. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have 
shown that:
Mr M had multiple loans outstanding with other short-term lenders and these were in 
arrears.
Mr M was also in arrears for his utility bills.
So I think that if Novaloans had made better checks it would have seen, as I have, that Mr M 
was unable to sustainably repay loan four, or any subsequent loans. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Novaloans lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Novaloans should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Novaloans should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because by loan six the pattern of Mr Ms borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
Mr M had taken out six loans with terms of three or four months in less than a year.
From loan six onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a 
previous one. So Novaloans ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Novaloans. Loan eight was 
taken out thirteen months after Mr Ms first. And it was for a substantially larger amount. 
Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Novaloans over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Novaloans continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans four to eight and I think Novaloans should put 
things right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, I require Novaloans to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans four to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Mr Ms credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to eight should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest. Novaloans 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
require Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk to carry out the actions and pay Mr M 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman