DRN-3631230
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a package bank 
account (PBA).
What happened
Mr M opened a HSBC Plus account in 2009 that was later rebranded as a HSBC Advance 
account in February 2010. Mr M says he was mis-sold this fee-paying account as it was sold 
to him on the basis he would benefit from preferential mortgage rates, but at the time he was 
within a fixed rate mortgage term and was unable to utilise this benefit.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ms complaint about the sale of his PBA but didnt 
think it should be upheld. As Mr M disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Information available from the time Mr M took out his account is limited. But this isnt 
surprising considering the time that has passed and that businesses arent required to keep 
this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available I havent seen 
anything to suggest HSBC gave Mr M a tailored recommendation to take the account. 
As HSBC didnt recommend the account to Mr M it didnt have an obligation to make sure 
the account was right for him. But it did have to give Mr M the information he needed to 
decide if it suited his circumstances.
Mr M has told us that when he opened the PBA he was told he would benefit from 
preferential mortgage rates, although he was in a fixed term with his mortgage at the time so 
this benefit was not available to him.
I have thought about what Mr M has said. He would not have been able to benefit from the 
lower mortgage rates the PBA gave access to. But I think this would have been clear to Mr 
M at the time he took the account. I think its likely Mr M would have known he was in a fixed 
rate on his current mortgage and at the very least Mr M would have realised soon after 
taking the account that he hadnt agreed a new mortgage rate and could have cancelled the 
account. Mr M continued with the account for thirteen years. I think this shows Mr M wanted 
the account for more than just the benefit of lower mortgage rates.
The PBA also offered preferential rates on overdrafts, loans, and savings as well as travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and free cash withdrawals abroad. 
PBAs are not tailored to the individual as they are accounts offered to many different 
customers, so its not an expectation that customers will always be able to use all the 
benefits available. But this does not mean the account has been mis-sold.
Around the time Mr M upgraded his account he opened a savings account with a preferential 
interest rate. He also travelled abroad at this time taking advantage of the free cash 
withdrawals. As he travelled abroad this also meant the travel insurance may have been 
useful to him. So, I think that at the time Mr M upgraded his account he would have thought 
its benefits would be useful to him.
Since upgrading his account Mr M has also made use of the preferential rates applied to 
overdrafts, opened a second savings account with preferential interest rates, and used the 
motor breakdown cover.
While Mr M did not use all the benefits offered by the PBA I think, at the time he took the 
account he would have thought the benefits would have been useful to him and has used the 
benefits offered by the account on multiple occasions.
Overall, I think the PBA was useful to Mr M and I dont think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman