DRN-1958468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Coventry Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage. Ill refer to the business as Coventry BS in the 
rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage through Coventry BS in 1992. At the same time, they 
took out a PPI policy covering them both for accident, sickness and unemployment for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. The policy cost them £21 per month and provided 
them with £350 of mortgage repayment cover per month covering their mortgage 
repayment in full. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept our 
adjudicators view. So, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint comes to me to for a decision. They 
said they werent given a choice about taking out PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed when the insurance was added.  So, as well at taking into 
account what Mr and Mrs D recall from the time of sale, Ive looked at the paperwork that 
likely was used when the policy was sold to them, to reach a decision on this case. 
Coventry BS no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds actual paperwork. But thats not 
surprising, as businesses generally only keep records like this for six years and this policy 
was sold around 28 years ago. 
Having seen the sample paperwork Coventry BS was using to sell these policies around 
this time, I can see that the customer was given the option to select or decline PPI on the 
mortgage application form. They then had to sign a separate PPI application to apply for 
PPI. So, I think it likely that Coventry BS made it clear at the time PPI was an optional 
insurance product and they were not required to take it. I can understand why Mr and    
Mrs D may not remember that now, after so much time.  
Based on what Coventry BS and Mr and Mrs D have said I dont think this policy was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs D. But, even still, Coventry BS had to give Mr and Mrs D 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so that they could make an 
informed choice about whether PPI was right for them and they wanted to buy it. If there 
was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs D have lost 
out because of that.
Coventry BS hasnt been able to give us a copy of the policy document from the time of sale, 
due to the time thats passed. So, Ive thought about the terms we usually see in these
types of policies.
I cant see that this policy was likely inappropriate for Mr and Mrs D. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D appeared eligible to take out PPI given their circumstances.
They were both working at the time and said they wouldve each been eligible to 
get six months worth of sick pay through work at full pay and six months worth at 
half pay. The policy wouldve paid out on top of their work-related benefits and for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. So, I think this couldve provided them with a 
valuable benefit to protect their home. 
They said they had around £2,000 in savings. The PPI wouldve allowed them to 
keep hold of these savings to meet other household expenses. 
They said their family wouldve helped with their repayments. I accept they may 
have wanted to. But help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. 
The premium was paid monthly so Mr and Mrs D couldve cancelled PPI at any 
time without losing out financially. They didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. 
I cant see that the policy was unaffordable.
I think they wouldve understood that they had to pay a separate amount for the 
cover. This appears to have been set out in the paperwork they were likely provided 
with at the time of sale. 
I cant see that they were likely affected by the main limitations or exclusions in 
the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition. So, as it appears, they 
couldve made use of the all the cover provided. So, I think likely they wouldve 
considered the policy worth it to them in their circumstances.
Its possible they couldve been given clearer information, particularly about the costs 
and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still taken out the 
policy because of the protection it afforded them, and it appeared appropriate for their 
needs and affordable.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman