DRN-4136484
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost, after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In February 2022, Mr K was contacted by somebody claiming to be from a bank that Mr K 
holds another account with. The caller told Mr K that there was fraudulent activity on his 
account, but that he would help protect him from the malicious activity and put him in a safe 
position. But unknown to him at the time, Mr K was dealing with a fraudster. The fraudster 
told Mr K he needed to move money he held with his other bank to a safe account and that 
he had to send it to an account with Revolut.
Mr K followed the fraudsters instructions and has further said the fraudster instructed him to 
download an application that enabled the fraudster to have remote access to his device.    
Mr K has said money was taken from his Revolut account and the call cut off when all of the 
money had gone. Mr K has said he only realised hed been scammed, when he downloaded 
the Revolut app, which he says had been deleted from his phone as part of the scam, and 
saw the money had gone. Mr K added that the fraudster had also taken cryptocurrency that 
he had bought.
The following two transfers were made from Mr Ks Revolut account to accounts that the 
fraudsters controlled;
25/2/2022 @ 16:46 £739
25/2/2022 @ 16:56 £958
Mr K has said he tried to contact Revolut straight away to report the scam, but he couldnt 
get in contact with Revolut as he says its system wasnt working. Mr K was able to raise the 
matter with Revolut the following day, via its online chat function.
Mr K raised a complaint with Revolut, as he said the response and reaction time from it was 
too slow and it was within that time the fraudster disappeared and this was why Revolut was 
unable to trace the money he had lost. He added that he thought Revolut should have 
noticed that something unusual was happening on his account.
Revolut looked into Mr Ks complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary it said it was sorry to 
hear of the events that had happened to Mr K. It added that it had tried to recover the money 
lost from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were made), but 
unfortunately no funds remained. It said that it didnt think it should be liable for the transfers, 
this was because it said it had warned Mr K about the risk and that there was no way of it 
identifying whether the transfers were out of character.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she concluded the payments made were authorised transactions. This was 
because there was only one device registered to Mr Ks account and it was registered by the 
same IP address as used to open the account. So it was unclear how someone could have 
accessed the device to carry out the transactions without Mr Ks knowledge.
The Investigator added that she thought the intervention Revolut did make was proportionate 
and overall she didnt think she could fairly and reasonably ask Revolut to refund the loss 
incurred. Our Investigator considered Revoluts attempts to recover the money and said that 
even if Mr K had been able to report the scam sooner it wouldnt have made a difference, as 
the money had been moved from the beneficiary bank soon after he had made the 
payments.
As Mr K didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to hear Mr K was the victim of a scam and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Mr Ks losses if it 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
Ive seen in his submissions to us that Mr K has referred to other cases. But I would point out 
that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined 
by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K has said he only saw the money had gone from his Revolut account, once hed 
downloaded the Revolut app, which hes said had been deleted as part of the fraud. Ive 
thought about this carefully and I agree with our Investigators view on this point. Whilst we 
now know the account Mr K sent his funds to was controlled by a fraudster, I think its more 
likely than not Mr K knew the payments were being made. I say that because the technical 
evidence from the bank indicates Mr Ks registered device was used to carry out the 
transactions and importantly, Mr K has said the fraudster had told him his funds needed to 
be moved to a safer account, so I think it more likely than not he was aware of what he 
thought was a need for the transfers to be made, in order to protect his money. Where I find 
Mr K authorised the transactions, it means that Revolut were obliged to follow his 
instructions.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment.
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Revolut did provide warnings to Mr K at the point he was making the payments. 
Given the individual circumstances of this case, I think that was a proportionate intervention, 
and Im not persuaded Revolut needed to do anything more.
Im mindful here that, as part of the fraud, Mr Ks Revolut account was closed and re-
opened. But even when considering this I think the steps Revolut took were proportionate, 
when considering the transfers that were being made. I dont think, with what it knew, 
Revolut could fairly or reasonably have been able to foresee that Mr K may have been about 
to fall victim to a scam, to the extent where I think its intervention ought to have gone further 
than it did.
Mr K has explained that he was unable to raise the scam with Revolut straight away as its 
systems werent working. But from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it would have made a 
difference even if Mr K had been able to raise the matter sooner than he did. I say that 
because the information Ive seen from the beneficiary bank shows that within 45 minutes of 
the transfers being made, the funds had already been moved on again. It is quite typical with 
these types of scams for fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, 
straight after the payments are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts of the money being 
recovered. So, I cant fairly or reasonably say that there was an opportunity missed for the 
money Mr K sadly lost to be recovered.
Its very unfortunate Mr K has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done 
more to prevent Mr K from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman