DRN-4369276
The complaint
Mr G and Miss T complain about an error made by First Central Insurance Management 
Limited in the administration of their car insurance policy
What happened
Mr G and Miss T have car insurance arranged and administered by First Central. The policy 
is actually underwritten by a different company. 
In July 2022, Mr G and Miss T informed First Central that they wanted to change the car on 
the policy. Their previous car had been written off.
First Central failed to change the car details on the policy as theyd promised to do. The 
policy renewed in September 2022  with the wrong car still listed and the right car not 
featuring in the policy documents at all.
Mr G and Miss T eventually became aware of this error and ceased to make direct debit 
payments for their policy in March 2023  on the basis that they hadnt received the service 
for which theyd paid. 
This led to First Central cancelling the policy and asking Mr G and Miss T to pay off the 
arrears on their premium payments.
Mr G and Miss T werent happy about this and made a complaint to First Central, who 
admitted their error in not updating the car details on the policy when they were asked to do 
so. 
First Central offered Mr G and Miss T £150 in compensation for their trouble and upset. And 
they decided not to charge Mr G and Miss T the addition to the premium - which ought to 
have been increased when the new car was added to the policy.
First Central have also issued a written note confirming that Mr G and Miss T would have 
been covered  for their new car  during the period the wrong car appeared on the policy as 
a result of their error.
Mr G and Miss T werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. They 
thought the compensation offered by First Central was insufficient given the trouble and 
upset theyd been caused.
After we began our investigation, First Central increased their compensation offer to £300. 
Theyd already sent Mr G and Miss T a cheque for £150, but said theyd offset a further £150 
against the payments still owed them by Mr G and Miss T.
Mr G and Miss T still thought the compensation offered was insufficient. Our investigator 
thought the offer was fair, although she said First Central should pay the £300 direct to Mr G 
and Miss T and not offset it against the amount they said was still owed.
Mr G and Miss T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Central have fully admitted their error in July 2022. At that time, Mr G and Miss T 
notified them of the change of car and asked them to amend the policy. They failed to do so.
The issue might have been picked up by either party in September 2022 when the policy 
renewed. First Central didnt pick it up, but nor did Mr G and Miss T when they received the 
renewal offer and later confirmation of renewal.
Mr G and Miss T didnt have to make a claim during the period the wrong car was listed on 
the policy. So, the error had no impact on them in that respect. 
First Central have assured Mr G and Miss T that they were on cover in the relevant period. 
Mr G and Miss T have questioned that - on the basis that its easy for First Central to say 
that now. 
However, given the original error was First Centrals, I am satisfied they would have been 
bound to respond to any claim made by Mr G and Miss T in that period.
Putting things right
Mr G and Miss T say they might have had to make a claim in the relevant period  and that 
they may not have been covered. And so, the compensation theyve been offered in 
insufficient given the gravity of (unknowingly) driving without insurance. 
In fact, they didnt have to make a claim. And, as I say, Im satisfied they would have been 
covered in any case had they needed to make a claim. So, there was no impact on Mr G and 
Miss T resulting for the error in terms of any claims or potential claims.
I can understand that Mr G and Miss T felt upset when they realised the error. And they then 
had the inconvenience of having to contact First Central to clarify the position  and tell them 
again that their car had changed.
I can see that this might have been stressful and worrying for the short period of time before 
First Central admitted their error and assured Mr G and Miss T that they had in fact been on 
cover.
However, I cant see that Mr G and Miss T can have suffered any worry or stress before 
March 2023, when they reported the error to First Central, because I assume they were up 
until that point blissfully unaware of the issue. If they were aware sooner, they ought to have 
reported the issue sooner.  
So, as a result of First Centrals error  compounded by the failure of either party to notice 
the wrong car details at renewal  Mr G and Miss T have suffered a degree of worry and 
stress for a relatively short period and have had the inconvenience of having to contact First 
Central to notify them of the problem. 
Theres no suggestion that First Central didnt respond entirely appropriately and fairly 
speedily once they had been contacted.
On that basis, I agree with our investigators view that £300 in total in compensation for Mr G 
and Miss Ts trouble and upset is fair and reasonable.Ill leave it to First Central and Mr G and Miss T to decide how that payment is made  and 
whether the original cheque for £150 sent to Mr G and Miss T is returned, cancelled or 
cashed. The important point is that Mr G and Miss T are paid £300 in total as soon as is 
practicable.
For the sake of absolute clarity, I should say that I also agree with our investigator that it 
would be unfair for First Central to offset that compensation payment against any sum owed 
to them by Mr G and Miss T. If Mr G and Miss T choose to use that money to settle all or 
part of any debt to First Central, thats up to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr G and Miss Ts complaint.
First Central Insurance Management Limited must pay Mr G and Miss T £300 in 
compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman