DRN-2885251
The complaint
Mrs S complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) refusal to carry out further works to 
her property following a fire in neighbouring premises.
What happened
Mrs S insures a property with UKI. The matters which are the subject of this complaint date 
back to 2011. A fire in a neighbouring property resulted in the demolition of an adjoining wall, 
potentially causing structural instability to Mrs S property.
 
Mrs S made a claim on her policy with UKI. As part of that claim it was agreed that a 
temporary wall would be built to protect Mrs S property, with a permanent solution being 
included when the neighbouring property was rebuilt by its owners. 
The issue which arises is that, to date, no reinstatement works have been carried out at the 
neighbouring property. Theres no indication that such works will be started in the 
foreseeable future.
Mrs S has previously referred two complaints to our service about UKIs handling of these 
matters. In 2013, an ombudsman concluded that the temporary wall was an appropriate way 
of dealing with concerns about the structural integrity of the property. In 2018, an 
ombudsman concluded that it wasnt reasonable to ask UKI to do any more at that point, but 
said that if the rebuilding of the neighbouring property (including the wall) doesnt happen, 
then UKI will need to consider the matter at that point.
Mrs S asked UKI for a permanent repair to the wall in 2020. She said there was no 
suggestion that the neighbouring property was going to be rebuilt and that the land was for 
sale, indicating that there was no likelihood of the repairs being carried out. UKI said it had 
discharged all of its liabilities in respect of the repairs. It says the temporary wall is 
structurally sound and has made a payment to her which will cover its removal when the 
neighbouring property is rebuilt.
Mrs S says that her property suffers from damp emanating from the temporary wall, it 
doesnt retain heat as it should do and as a result tenants arent retained. She wants to sell 
the property but cant do so without a permanent solution.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should be upheld and that UKI should cover 
for additional works to install further insulation on this wall. Mrs S agreed with this but UKI 
proposed appointing structural engineers and surveyors to inspect the wall, assess its 
structural integrity and establish the cause of damp and whether there were heat retention 
issues relating to the temporary wall, and then to establish appropriate repairs if there were 
issues with the wall. Our investigator thought this was a reasonable offer. Mrs S disagrees 
and considers that UKI are seeking to delay further repairs to her property. Shes asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Im only looking at the current complaint. I cant change or add 
to either of our previous decisions regarding this matter. So the first question I have to 
answer is whether UKI acted fairly in declining to carry out any further works to the wall by 
2020 in light of the continued lack of progress towards a permanent repair being effected by 
the neighbour. 
Our previous decision was that UKIs response (until 2018) was reasonable  it had covered 
the construction of a temporary wall and made a payment to Mrs S which was intended to 
cover the cost of demolishing that temporary wall when a permanent wall was to be 
constructed as part of the neighbouring propertys rebuild. But it was made clear within that 
decision that if the rebuild didnt happen, UKI would need to revisit this position.
This is what happened  theres no dispute that the neighbour hasnt started any works or 
even indicated they may start  indeed its suggested that the land is to be, or has been, 
sold. So it seems to me that UKI needed to consider what it would do next. 
Im satisfied that leaving the wall as it is currently may not amount, based on what weve 
been told, to a lasting and effective repair, which is what UKI are liable for. This isnt the 
same as a permanent repair, the primary responsibility for which was, and remains, the 
neighbours, based on what weve been told. The wall as presently constructed was intended 
to be a temporary measure while awaiting the reinstatement of the neighbouring property. 
Attempts have previously been made by UKI and Mrs S over the years to establish when it 
will be rebuilt, including a permanent repair to Mrs S wall, but no answer was given.
It seems to me that, more than 10 years since the fire, a more permanent solution is required 
if heat loss and damp is being caused by the temporary wall which was always intended as 
such. Its also appropriate I think to establish whether the wall remains structurally sound 
given its original temporary nature.
I dont have anything at the moment available to me to say that the damp and heat loss is 
attributable to the temporary wall, such as engineers or surveyors reports , or that theres 
an issue with the structural integrity  and the further enquiries proposed by UKI would be 
conducted with a view to establishing this. I dont think its reasonable to ask UKI to cover 
additional works without such evidence being obtained. It hasnt been satisfactorily 
demonstrated that damp and heat loss is occurring because of the temporary wall its 
covered for, or that the wall is at risk of collapse.
Three options were previously put forward for a permanent repair to the wall. It seems to be 
accepted that two of these arent feasible as they would involve constructing on the 
neighbours land, and as Ive said above, the neighbours havent been engaging with UKI or 
Mrs S about such matters. The final options is what our investigator thought UKI should 
cover, and involved adding additional insulation to the existing wall, which would only require 
internal work at the property rather than external works which would be required for the other 
two options.
Mrs S says that this is what UKI should do now. UKIs position (after our investigator gave 
her opinion) is that it will cover the costs of, and make arrangements for, a structural 
engineer and surveyor to carry out investigations into the current structure with a view to 
establishing whether the temporary wall is suitable, structurally sound or causing damp and 
heat loss. If issues are established, it will then look at options to resolve these matters. So it seems to me that theres now an acceptance on UKIs part that the current wall may not 
be a long-term, effective resolution of the issue. It wants to undertake enquiries to establish 
what further liability it has to reach that resolution. I think this is reasonable.
Theres another reason I think this is a practical, pragmatic and fair way to progress matters. 
The surveyors report which outlines the three options for how to effect a more permanent 
repair. Two of these options were considered not to be feasible. The report was produced in 
2012. While no work has been carried out to reinstate the neighbouring property, there 
would now be the benefit of establishing the effect of the temporary wall and also possible 
changes and improvements to the way buildings are constructed and insulated.
I think that allowing new investigations and enquiries to be carried out has additional 
benefits. Such enquiries, and reports resulting from them, will be carried out knowing that 
works which involve constructing on the neighbours land wont be possible (which wasnt 
the case with the 2012 report), so solutions need to be considered which involve internal 
works to Mrs S property.
In the event that further works are carried out to the wall  either by replacing the wall or by 
carrying out additional works to the existing wall, UKIs said it would reserve the right to 
deduct £6,870 from the settlement, to take into account the payment made to Mrs S to cover 
the removal of the wall when the neighbour rebuilt their property. I think that this is fair, as 
long as any further works are assessed by the relevant experts as being a permanent 
solution, rather than a further temporary measure. If its a permanent repair then theres no 
longer any need for Mrs S to pay for its future removal, so the amount paid wouldnt be 
required by Mrs S for its intended purpose. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, U K Insurance 
Limited must:
Cover the costs of the necessary enquiries by structural engineers, surveyors and 
any other reasonably required experts to establish the suitability of the wall, its 
structural integrity, and cause of any damp and / or heat loss from the property, and 
whether this is linked to the temporary wall which has been constructed.
In the event that the temporary wall is found to be the cause of such issues, cover 
the necessary further works to the property in accordance with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the property. If this repair is considered to be a permanent repair, 
UKI would be entitled to deduct £6,870 from its settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman