DRN-3371644
The complaint
Mr D complains St Jamess Place Wealth Management Limited (SJP) didnt take action to 
prevent his pension plan losing money when he was diagnosed with serious ill health.
What happened
In 2019 Mr D was advised by SJP to transfer the benefits of a personal pension with another 
provider valued at around £19,500, to his existing personal pension plan held with SJP. He 
was making monthly contributions to the personal pension, and SJP recommended he 
contribute instead to his employers scheme to benefit from matched employer contributions, 
which hed otherwise miss out on. This was set out in SJPs suitability letter dated 5 June 
2019. 
The combined value of the plans after the transfer of around £330,000 was invested in SJPs 
managed funds portfolio, in line with Mr Ds medium attitude to risk (ATR). Mr D had 
previously given the advisor a letter which authorised SJP to carry out fund switches on his 
behalf, as he was often uncontactable during a working day. 
Later in 2019 Mr D was sadly diagnosed with a rare and incurable form of cancer. Hes 
undergoing treatment and his prognosis is uncertain. In October 2019 Mr D thought hed 
better let his SJP adviser (the adviser) know about his situation. The adviser visited Mr D at 
his home in January 2020. Theres a difference of opinion about the purpose of this meeting. 
Mr D believed that having made SJP aware of his circumstances, theyd manage his 
portfolio more closely, having the authorisation already in place. The adviser said he made a 
courtesy visit to talk through the options with Mr Ds retirement account in the event of his 
death. 
Around this time the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was beginning to be felt on 
investment markets. Mr D had spoken to a friend, also a client of SJP but with a different 
adviser, whod been advised to switch his investments into the money market fund (MMF), 
essentially cash, to prevent the value falling further. So Mr D called his adviser who advised 
against moving into the MMF, despite his fund falling around £40,000. This was on the basis 
Mr D didnt have an immediate need for the money, and markets would likely recover in due 
course. 
Mr D said he felt uneasy about this advice, so the following day he instructed SJP to switch 
his entire fund to the MMF, realising just over £237,850, which was confirmed by letter on 21 
March 2020. Mr Ds portfolio included a property fund which was suspended at the time, so it 
wasnt possible to switch that element. In August 2020 as the markets began to recover, the 
adviser suggested Mr D switch back into active investments, but he declined. 
The suspension of the property fund was lifted on 9 September 2020, and Mr D confirmed to 
the adviser he wanted to proceed with the switch to the MMF. The adviser made a keying 
error when intending to input 100%, resulting in only £100 being switched. Mr D himself 
noticed the error on 16 October 2020, and the switch completed on 19 October 2020, the 
next working day. Overall Mr Ds fund was valued at around £55,000 less by this point than it 
had been prior to the pandemic, of which around £15,000 related to the property element. Mr 
D holds SJP responsible for not preventing his loss, so in November 2020 he complained.
SJP rejected the complaint. They said the adviser recalled a conversation with Mr D about 
authorising fund switches, should they not be able to get in contact with him. But SJP held 
no authorisation letter from Mr D, and in any case at the time advisers were not permitted to 
make discretionary decisions without explicit authority from the customer. 
SJP acknowledged the uncertainty around the pandemic caused anxiety to many people, but 
it said its advisers cannot predict or give advice on market movements. And SJPs strategy 
was to advise people to think long term and ride out the volatility, in line with what Mr D had 
been told. SJP apologised for any offence caused by the advisers comments about the fund 
being sufficient to provide for Mr Ds wife. They said the adviser had understood a treatment 
plan was in place for Mr Ds cancer, which he (the adviser) hadnt known was incurable. 
In terms of the keying error which led to delays in selling the property fund, SJP explained 
that rather than causing a £15,000 loss, the delay in selling the fund had actually marginally 
worked in Mr Ds favour. SJP included valuations of Mr Ds fund at various points. It peaked 
on 20 February 2020, but the majority of the fall had already taken place when Mr D gave 
instructions to switch to the MMF on 18 March 2020, which crystallised his loss. And as hes 
now out of the market, he hasnt benefitted from the recovery. In view of the trouble and 
upset caused to Mr D, SJP made a gesture of goodwill offer of £250.
Mr D didnt accept this, so escalated his complaint within SJP, making a new point about 
why contributions to his plan had stopped. SJP sent a further response in March 2021, 
enclosing a copy of the June 2019 suitability letter which included the contribution advice. 
They reiterated the adviser hadnt contacted Mr D to take action in respect of the falling 
markets, as he hadnt thought it necessary. Nonetheless they increased their offer of 
compensation from £250 to £500.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. He believed that as hed made the adviser aware 
of his diagnosis, his investments would be more closely managed, as he may no longer have 
sufficient time to recoup any losses.  Mr D thought SJP shouldve proactively contacted him 
when markets started falling, to ask what he wanted to do. He didnt feel SJP had 
adequately answered his questions, and he didnt accept they didnt hold his fund switch 
authorisation letter. He questioned the validity of the June 2019 suitability letter which he 
said hed never received. And he felt SJPs compensation offer was totally inadequate. 
Our investigator said that whilst he appreciated why Mr D had been anxious, it was industry 
standard practice to remain in the market through a period of turbulence. He said it wasnt 
possible to be precise about the impact of Mr Ds cancer on his life expectancy, but even if it 
had been known, the advice to remain invested would still stand. Mr D had unfortunately 
cashed out near the bottom of the market. So, overall, our investigator didnt hold SJP 
responsible for Mr Ds loss, and thought its offer of £500 was sufficient to put things right in 
terms of the upset its mistake had caused and the comments its adviser had made at his 
meeting with Mr D at his home. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, he made the following points:
Stopping contributions to his plan had never been discussed;
He hadnt received the June 2019 suitability letter;
The visit in January 2020 wasnt to discuss death benefits for Mr Ds wife, it was to 
discuss investment options, as he (Mr D) was likely to be too unwell to manage his 
portfolio during treatment;Mr D believes SJP charges a premium to reflect their personal service, so expected 
his portfolio would be managed with additional care in view of his illness, but hed 
had no contact from the adviser; 
The advisers comments that there would still be plenty of money for Mrs D was 
upsetting, insensitive and unprofessional, for which SJP hasnt offered an acceptable 
apology;
Mr D agreed he declined to move back into active investments, as he feared ongoing 
market uncertainty, which couldve meant further losses;
The letter of authority had been handed to the adviser during a visit to Mr Ds home, 
and SJP never told him discretionary switches cant be done;
Mr D had explained his cancer was incurable, and all the treatment can do is hold it 
at bay;
SJP shouldve contacted him before his loss reached £40,000 and if the adviser had 
done his job properly Mr D wouldnt have lost so much; 
He couldnt be sure the property fund loss calculation was correct as it hadnt been 
shared with him;

The investigator still didnt recommend upholding the complaint, adding the following: 
He provided Mr D with a copy of the declaration hed signed in August 2019 to accept 
the advice received in June 2019, to transfer his C personal pension to SJP, which 
suggested hed seen the suitability letter at the time;
The advisers notes about the meeting in January 2020 showed hed understood 
Mr D wanted reassurance thered be provision for his wife. So the discussion had 
focussed on death benefits from the pension;
SJPs position for all its clients was to stay in the market and ride out the volatility. 
There was no reason to speak to each client individually. The advisers 
communications had been sent to Mr Ds work email address, so he may not have 
seen them. But even if hed spoken to Mr D personally, the advice would have been 
the same  to stay in the market;
Until it was crystallised Mr D hadnt actually made a loss. His fund valuation had 
fallen by £40,000 before he switched to the MMF, but this was only a paper loss 
until he sold; 
The investigator quoted the extract of SJPs complaint response where the adviser 
said he hadnt intended to cause Mr D any offence, and explained we cant direct a 
firm to apologise; 
And he provided the calculation of the property fund valuation as set out in SJPs 
email dated 16 October 2020.

Mr D replied again saying he now had the same SJP adviser as his friend. He didnt see the 
point of bringing a complaint to this service if we didnt answer his questions. And if SJP 
thought they hadnt done anything wrong, why had they offered compensation. 
The investigator thought hed gone as far as he could to resolve the complaint. So the case 
has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I realise this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr D, so let me explain why. I appreciate Mr D received a devastating diagnosis in 2019, and this continues to be a 
difficult time for him and his family. The pandemic has caused additional complications and 
worry, and the financial impacts have no doubt added to his stress. Whilst Im not upholding 
the complaint, I dont wish to seem insensitive, or to give the impression Im undermining the 
seriousness of Mr Ds situation. Or that I dont understand his very real concerns about 
securing his financial future against the significant market turmoil at the start of the 
pandemic. 
Mr D questioned the point of referring his complaint to this service, if he didnt get an answer 
to all his queries. We are an informal service, and while we do read and review all the 
evidence on the file, we focus on what we consider to be the crux of the complaint. The heart 
of Mr Ds complaint is his belief SJP failed to prevent his fund sustaining losses of around 
£40,000, (if the delay in switching the property element didnt actually result in a loss). 
However, for completeness Ill also address the three questions he posed to SJP which he 
feels remain outstanding:
Whether the SJP adviser had an additional duty of care towards Mr D in view of his 
ill-health;
Why his pension contributions stopped following the transfer of his other personal 
pension from provider C to SJP
Why SJP hadnt contacted Mr D proactively once the markets stabilised to see if he 
wished to reinvest his funds. 
SJPs duty of care to Mr D and whether it caused (or failed to prevent) his loss
Ive read everything on the file carefully, and Ive listened to Mr Ds calls. But I also take 
account of the written evidence, and Ive seen nothing to support Mr Ds impression that the 
SJP adviser committed to provide him with a priority service, or to manage his funds with 
additional care in light of his diagnosis. Mr D was invested in the SJP Managed Funds 
portfolio, which is diversified, and includes UK and global equities, bonds and some cash, in 
line with his medium ATR. It wouldnt necessarily require a consumer to make investment 
decisions and switches on a regular basis. So I dont think it followed that because Mr D 
wouldnt be taking an active role, the adviser would do so. 
SJP says it doesnt have a letter authorising the adviser to make investment decisions on Mr 
Ds behalf. SJP said at the relevant time it would still have needed a clients specific 
instructions, it wouldnt have made discretionary decisions on Mr Ds behalf. But even if the 
SJP adviser had such authority, I dont think he wouldve switched into the MMF once the 
markets began to be impacted by the pandemic. As in line with SJPs stance and general 
industry practice, its likely he wouldnt have thought it was the right thing to do. 
Mr D said that his diagnosis meant he had a shorter than anticipated time horizon in which to 
recoup investment losses. But Im not sure SJP was made explicitly aware of this. Mr D had 
been told his cancer is incurable with limited treatment options. However, he hadnt told the 
adviser that he had been given a terminal diagnosis with any specified life expectancy
Mr D thinks the adviser shouldve inferred from being told the cancer was incurable that it 
was essentially terminal, and as such kept a closer eye on Mr Ds pension and switched into 
lower risk investments to minimise losses. But it seems Mr D expected to return to work and 
hadnt intended to retire at that point. SJPs June 2019 letter following discussions in 
January, March, and May that year, recorded that Mr D, then 63, hadnt anticipated 
accessing his pension funds prior to age 70. Further, the SJP adviser understood after his death, Mr Ds plan would be used to provide 
an income for Mrs D. So I think a long-term investment strategy was still appropriate. And 
the risk of moving into more stable assets like the MMF is the lack of growth. I understand 
Mr D subsequently retired from work on ill health grounds, but at the time I cant fairly say 
that SJP wouldve reasonably considered changes were necessary to Mr Ds investment 
strategy. 
The adviser only knew what Mr D had told him, which was that the cancer was incurable, 
although he was on a treatment programme. If Mr D didnt go into detail, I think the adviser 
wasnt acting unreasonably or unfairly by not asking any further questions about this. The 
adviser focussed on what he understood to be Mr Ds concerns, which were the provisions in 
the plan for his wife. The adviser had explained the death benefits of Mr Ds plan to him on 
the phone. And he arranged to visit Mr D at his home, so he could explain things to him and 
his wife in person. The adviser understood they (Mr and Mrs D) were reasonably positive 
about Mr Ds prognosis but wanted to be prepared should the worst happen.
Mr D feels SJP should apologise for the advisers insensitive and unprofessional comments 
that the plan offered plenty of money for his (Mr Ds) wife. Of course such situations require 
empathy. But it can be unhelpful if professionals shy away from difficult conversations, and 
sometimes even when discussing sensitive matters its important to be clear and 
straightforward. I think its unlikely the adviser intended to upset or offend Mr D. And Ive no 
reason to doubt his aim was to provide reassurance that the benefits of Mr Ds plan would 
benefit his wife if the worse was to happen.  
In terms of the advice not to sell his investments, the pandemic was an unprecedented event 
and the impacts were widespread, so particularly at the start there was an element of panic 
in investment markets. With every advice, theres a degree of subjective judgment when an 
adviser makes a recommendation. Different advisers can reasonably make different 
recommendations when considering a customers demands and needs. So, whilst Mr D says 
his friend was provided with different advice, this doesnt make what Mr D was advised to do 
unsuitable for his particular needs at that time.
Ive seen the email communications Mr Ds adviser sent to his clients in March 2020 on this 
topic. The first one dated 2 March 2020 included a link to a statement from SJPs Chief 
Investment Officer (CIO). It essentially said that while it might be natural to consider taking 
drastic action in uncertain times, the advice was to focus on the longer term, and the adviser 
said he would be happy to discuss his clients concerns. The second email dated 9 March 
2020 said that its easy to be drawn into the endless cycle of news and make hasty 
investment decisions in order to. limit exposure to risk. It went on to say that history 
shows trying to trade in and out of the market means people are likely to lose out. It said 
SJPs managers were keeping a close eye on the markets, but that people should maintain 
existing strategies. And he asked clients to get in touch if they had queries.
I understand Mr D may not have received these updates, as hed given SJP his work email 
address and he wasnt at work while undergoing treatment. But I dont think it would have 
made a difference if the adviser had checked in with Mr D when the markets started to fall. I 
dont think Mr D wouldve been warned about how much money he was losing and asked 
what he wanted to do. The role of an adviser is not simply to ask a client for instructions and 
implement them, but to provide advice in the customers best interests. As Ive noted above, 
its accepted industry standard advice, unless theres an urgent need to release cash, its 
usually recommended not to make changes through a period of market volatility and await 
the recovery. And theres a risk that had Mr D been encouraged to switch to the MMF, and 
then stock markets recovered quickly, hed have been at a disadvantage. Mr D felt he had to do something as he was losing money. But while witnessing global 
stock market falls is alarming, until the loss is crystallised they are just paper losses. I 
appreciate at the time Mr D was very worried, and the recovery couldnt be predicted, so its 
understandable he felt compelled to take action himself. But even though the first impacts of 
the pandemic were being felt from February 2020, Mr Ds fund value was still rising and 
peaked in value at around £354,722 on 20 February 2020, after which it began to fall. The 
adviser couldnt have known the right time for Mr D, and other clients, to move into the MMF 
to minimise their losses. The adviser would also be mindful of the potential consequences of 
doing so. As it turned out Mr D sold close to the bottom of the market, but where the 
bottom would be, couldnt reasonably have been predicted. 
Pension contributions ceasing following the transfer of the personal pension
According to SJPs letter to Mr D dated 5 June 2019, discussions had taken place in 
January, March and May that year. So the letter summarised what had been agreed, which 
was that Mr D would transfer his other personal pension held with provider C to his existing 
personal pension with SJP to simplify his pension arrangements. The letter records Mr D 
had been making monthly contributions of £108 gross to his policy with C. The adviser 
recommended instead of switching his contributions to the consolidated SJP plan, Mr D join 
his employers main scheme, increasing his contributions to 5% of earnings to benefit from 
employers matched contributions, which hed otherwise miss out on. 
Mr D said pension contributions hadnt been discussed, and he never received the 5 June 
2019 letter until SJP provided a copy with its response to his complaint. But I think the 
evidence shows contributions were likely discussed, as Ive seen an email Mr D sent to the 
adviser on 15 May 2019, in which he forwarded a notification from his OPS explaining an 
increase in minimum contributions to 4% of qualifying earnings. I think this more than likely 
relates to a discussion with the adviser as Mr D had written sorry for the delay have been 
away in the sun, please see attached hope this gives you the information you need.
I cant say for sure whether Mr D received the 5 June 2019 letter. I can see its addressed 
correctly and most post is delivered, so I think its most likely was correctly received at his 
address. When Mr Ds plan with C was closed and the funds transferred across to SJP his 
contributions wouldve stopped. The intention being that Mr D would begin contributing 5% of 
his earnings through salary sacrifice to his OPS to benefit from the employer contributions, 
as well as the tax relief. It looks like this all happened around the time Mr D received his 
diagnosis, so he didnt actually commence contributions to the OPS. But thats not 
something I can fairly hold SJP responsible for, as Mr D wouldve had to arrange this himself 
with his employers payroll. 
SJPs failure to proactively contact Mr D when markets stabilised to discuss reinvesting
Mr D complained he hadnt been contacted by his adviser at the start of the pandemic-
related market volatility to let him know he was losing money. He only took action when 
prompted by his friend. Equally, when markets began to recover, Mr D says SJP didnt 
contact him to ask if he wanted to switch back into investments, so again, prompted by his 
friend Mr D spoke to the adviser in August 2020. 
The adviser says by this point the market had rebounded and a V-shaped recovery was 
expected. But after a discussion Mr D decided not to invest, being worried that the pandemic 
wasnt over, and also about the impact of Brexit. The adviser confirmed this discussion to 
Mr D in an email on 20 August 2020 suggesting the matter should be reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Mr D later agreed he declined to invest the recovery had only just begun, 
further lockdowns were expected, and he was worried about further losses. These are all 
valid concerns and deciding not to invest was Mr Ds choice to make. But I cant fairly say it would have made any difference to his position if SJP had proactively contacted him. As, 
based on all the evidence, I dont think its more likely than not that Mr D wouldve agreed to 
switch back into investments had they done so. 
So, for all the above reasons, Im not asking SJP to pay Mr D for the financial loss he says 
he suffered as a result of its actions. But I can see that SJP has offered to pay Mr D £500 for 
the trouble and upset it has caused so Ill assess whether this is fair. 
Firstly, I dont think its likely the adviser intended to upset or offend Mr D or his wife with his 
remarks about the death benefit provision for Mrs D. This nonetheless upset them at a time 
when they were already feeling vulnerable and distressed. I also note the adviser did make a 
keying error which Mr D discovered and made SJP aware of, although Ive said it doesnt 
appear this caused any financial loss. So, taking all of this into account, I think the offer of 
£500 in relation to any upset caused, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
St Jamess Place Wealth Management Limited has already made an offer to pay
£500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair. So my decision is that St Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Limited should pay £500 to Mr D.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman