DRN-4006136
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandled his chargeback request and 
provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr R renewed a business bureau service for another year online and paid £340 using his 
debit card. He was told in May 2022 that the specific location he used was closing and he 
was offered the alternative of another office address. As this was inconvenient he asked the 
merchant to refund the unused portion of his payment. Mr R says he received no response 
and contacted Barclays to claim a refund. It said it would be writing to him but when he 
received a credit of £340 he thought the matter was settled. He says he didnt receive further 
letters asking for information or telling him that the amount credited would be taken back 
from his account. 
Barclays said it accepted that during a call with Mr R it hadnt made clear that the credit to 
his account would be a temporary one and could be reversed during the dispute process. 
And it said that the chargeback process had concluded and couldnt now be reopened. It 
didnt think that it was responsible for letters not reaching Mr Rs address noting that hed 
mentioned his postal service was unreliable. Barclays offered to pay Mr R £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had offered to. He said that 
the chargeback was subject to the relevant card scheme rules. And the terms of Mr Rs 
agreement with the merchant stated that it could relocate the service to another office. As it 
had offered to do this our investigator didnt think that the chargeback could have 
succeeded. It was up to the merchant whether to offer a refund. While Barclays had shown it 
had written to Mr R, he still thought it could have communicated better. It hadnt given Mr R 
the impression hed need to do anything during a call, and as hed had the refund he didnt 
follow this up. He noted what Mr R had said about the time hed spent on the phone and the 
miscommunication and thought that the compensation was reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He wanted the service 
provided by Barclays to be considered irrespective of the outcome of the chargeback. The 
fault about the business bureau was down to the merchant and any refund he accepted 
would be made in line with the scheme rules. He hadnt received a payment of 
compensation from Barclays yet. And the chargeback request was handled very badly, he 
was misadvised, the procedures werent explained, and letters sent out were oddly not 
received. Communication with Barclays was often impossible. At times he couldnt get 
through and at other times he had to wait on hold for over an hour. He had been deprived of 
the opportunity of the chargeback being considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays didnt explain the chargeback process fully to Mr R at the 
outset when he called. That may have been addressed by its further letters. But Mr R says 
he didnt receive them. He saw the credit and although it seems was due a partial refund, 
thought things had been resolved. He didnt know that the amount of £340 would be taken 
back and says this happened on 23 August 2022.
I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for problems with the postal service. And I need to 
take into account that pursuing the chargeback would always have involved some 
inconvenience to Mr R resulting from the merchants actions. Our investigator looked at 
whether Mr R would otherwise have been successful in the chargeback and if hed suffered 
a financial loss due to Barclays. Having read the terms and conditions of his agreement with 
the merchant I dont consider that the chargeback would have succeeded if pursued further 
as the merchant had offered Mr R an alternative location and didnt have to give a refund.
So, I need to think about the fair amount of compensation for the poor service and 
miscommunication. We dont make punitive awards and Ive taken into account our 
published guidance about compensation. Here I need to decide if Barclays offer is a 
reasonable one to settle things. I know Mr R will be disappointed when I say that I think that 
it is and that I wont be requiring Barclays to pay him more than this.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay Mr R £50 to settle the complaint which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman