DRN-2474689
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to decline her a refund after she fell victim 
to a scam.
  
What happened
On 14 August 2019 Ms B was at a museum with her young daughter. She received a text 
which appeared to be from Lloyds. The text appeared on her phone in the same 
conversation chain as other texts shed received from the bank before. Ms B didnt know at 
the time, but the text had actually been sent by a fraudster who had been able to make it 
look like the text came from the bank. This is a technique known as spoofing. 
The text said a payment of £1,578 had been flagged for a fraud referral and that if the 
transaction wasnt recognised Ms B should contact the bank. A phone number to call was 
given within the message.
Ms B knew she hadnt made or attempted such a payment and so was very concerned by 
the message. She called the number given in the text message, believing she was 
contacting the bank. But the fraudster had supplied details that connected Ms B to them, and 
not Lloyds.
Ms B has described how the person she spoke to was very professional and seemed to 
know the banks processes. They explained that Ms Bs account was under threat and that 
she needed to act to protect her money by moving it to a new account.
Ms B was talked through the process of transferring the funds and did so using her mobile 
banking app. Through the course of doing so she set up two new payees, believing the 
details given were for new accounts in her name. Ms B recalls seeing a warning message 
pop up and she questioned it with the fraudster. She was concerned that it said the bank 
wouldnt ask her to transfer money to a safe account. The fraudster explained this was a 
different situation: they were transferring her money to new accounts in her name, not to a 
safe account. This gave Ms B the reassurance to proceed.
Ms B made payments to two new payees. They were initially made from a child saver 
account, starting with a £10,000 payment. Once £15,000 had been sent over three 
transactions Ms B was told to send the remaining funds via her current account as the daily 
transfer limit had been reached. So she transferred the remaining balance to her current 
account (bringing the balance to zero) and sent all the money in that account to the details 
provided by the fraudster (also bringing that balance to zero).
The call with the fraudster lasted around an hour. And once it was finished Ms B grew 
concerned about what had happened and so called the bank on the number given on its 
website. She had some trouble getting through but, when she did, the scam was revealed. 
The bank looked into what had happened and told Ms B it wouldnt be refunding her.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Lloyds said one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case, in that it said Ms B had ignored an Effective Warning.
Miss B was told by the bank that shed been given warnings about the type of scam shed 
fallen victim to at the time she was making the payments. And shed acknowledged seeing 
them. Because of that the bank said she wasnt due a refund.
Lloyds did attempt to recover the money from the recipient banks. But most of the money 
had already been withdrawn from those accounts and only £538.49 was recovered, in total, 
from the two accounts.
Ms B wasnt happy with the banks response and so brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered it and thought it ought to be upheld, with Ms B receiving 
a full refund.
She didnt believe Lloyds had provided a good enough warning and that Ms B had 
understandable reasons for moving past the message she did see. In summary, she said:
the warning from the bank didnt explain number spoofing and its dangers;
the fraudster had been able to talk Ms B through the warning by explaining she was 
transferring money to new accounts, not safe accounts;
the fake text message Ms B received alerting her to fraud on her account appeared 
in the same chain as genuine texts from the bank, making it appear legitimate;
the fraudster had been able to talk persuasively about the fraud process and what 
would happen after, including Ms B being provided with new account information, 
cards and PINs. All of which made the scam more convincing; and
Ms B was out in public with her daughter and had been put in a stressful situation 
with pressure to act quickly in order to avoid financial loss.
Our investigator was also mindful that when Ms B made these payments, Lloyds should 
fairly and reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
With that in mind, our investigator noted that the account activity was very unusual for Ms B. 
The first payment was to a new payee and represented a significant increase in outgoing 
payments. She thought the bank ought to have been concerned by this activity and should 
have stepped in to question it with Ms B. Had it done so, the investigator was satisfied the 
scam would have been revealed and the loss could have been avoided.
As such our investigator recommended that, along with refunding the money lost, Lloyds 
ought to pay interest on the loss from the date the money left the respective accounts to the 
date of settlement. That interest was to be calculated at the applicable rate for the child 
saver account and at 8% simple per year for the current account loss. She also 
recommended an award of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered, 
given she thought Lloyds had the chance to prevent the fraud from succeeding.
Lloyds didnt agree with the recommendations and so the case has been referred to me for a 
final decision. In summary, its said:
Ms B didnt question the authenticity of the person she spoke to when they claimed to 
be from the bank;
the warning it gave was good enough and Ms B had ignored it;
the phone number given by the fraudster in the fake text was not a genuine Lloyds 
number and Ms B didnt check it;
the use of the term safe account in its warning ought to have been enough to alert Ms B that something was wrong, and being told she was transferring to new 
accounts instead should still have caused her concern. It said, the concept of moving 
money is clearly addressed in the scam warning; and
Ms B ought to have been concerned that she was being asked to transfer to 
accounts held outside of Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded the money Ms B 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Lloyds should in any event have intervened before the second payment was 
processed, as it was unusual and out of character for Ms B and, if it had done so, I 
am satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Lloyds should fairly and reasonably refund the money Ms B 
lost.
If Lloyds had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, the money 
in the child saver account would have more likely than have remained there and so 
the bank should also pay interest calculated at the savings account rate from the 
date the money left the account to the date of settlement. 
With the money taken from the current account, it is not clear how Ms B would have 
used the money if Lloyds had refunded it when it should have done. Nor has the 
bank given reasons it might disagree with the investigators proposed redress, so it 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Ms B had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Ms B failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Lloyds to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met for the following reasons.
Im not persuaded Lloyds warning was impactful enough in the context of this scam to meet 
the minimum requirements of an effective warning under the CRM Code. On balance, Im 
not persuaded the warning Lloyds provided in this case would positively affect customer 
decision making in the way required by the CRM Code. In reaching that conclusion Im 
mindful that:
Lloyds provided a warning aimed to prevent a customer falling victim to a safe 
account scam. Safe account scams have common features  one of which is that the 
fraudster is often able to spoof the banks telephone number. The warning attempts 
to address number spoofing but the only real example it gives is about a phone call looking like its coming from Lloyds telephone number. It doesnt outline that 
fraudulent texts can appear in and amongst genuine text messages from Lloyds - 
also a common feature of this type of scam. Overall, I dont think the warning brings 
to life how such scams and spoofing techniques work to be sufficiently impactful. This 
is particularly the case given fraudsters often keep their victims on the phone while 
they complete the payment process (as was the case here), meaning there is little or 
no time for the customer to calmly reflect on the situation they find themselves in;
The warning refers to a safe account, explaining that Lloyds will never ask a 
customer to move money into a safe account. While that may be the language used 
by scammers in some instances, and is language used in financial services, Im not 
persuaded this is a term that the average customer is familiar with or understands, or 
is terminology that fraudsters use all the time. Its also true that in these types of 
scams there may be talk of securing the account or a temporary account amongst a 
host of other possible terminology. I think it is difficult to expect a consumer to 
correlate what they are being asked to do (they believe by their banks fraud 
specialists) with the specific phrase safe account and the specific terminology allows 
fraudsters to explain away any questions a customer might have (as was the case 
here), meaning the warning isnt strong enough to overcome recognised fraudster 
coaching tactics;
The Code explains that an effective warning should enable the customer to 
understand what actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud and the 
consequences of not doing so. The warning given in this case doesnt suggest any 
steps a customer might take to address the scam risk. And neither does the warning 
address the consequences of proceeding without taking action to address the scam 
risk and heeding the warning. This means customers are less able to protect 
themselves from falling victim to a scam, or to understand the consequences of 
proceeding with making a payment.
Even though Ive found the warning isnt an effective warning in compliance with SF1(2), Ive 
thought about whether Ms B failed to take appropriate action in response to the warning she 
was given. In the circumstances, and given how the scam unfolded, I do not think Ms B 
acted unreasonably so as to fail to take appropriate action in response to the warnings she 
was given because:
The scammer had managed to implant a fraudulent text message into a chain of 
genuine text messages Ms B had previously received from Lloyds. Within the 
fraudulent text, which Im persuaded looked convincing and genuine, Lloyds had 
provided a contact telephone number so that Ms B could discuss the attempted fraud 
on her account. Ms B rang this number believing she was calling Lloyds. What was 
discussed didnt do anything to undo Ms Bs belief she was talking to Lloyds given 
the fraudsters professional manner and good understanding of Lloyds banking 
procedures. I have no doubt Ms B was convinced she was talking to Lloyds.
The fraudster was, as a result, able to coach Ms B through the warning  with Ms B 
accepting the assistance of who she believed to be her bank. She did flag her 
concern about the term safe account in the warning, but, in the heat of the moment, 
where confusion and panic had been created, the fraudster was able to explain away 
the concern by saying that she would be transferring to new accounts, not safe ones. 
And so the narrow definition and explanation given in the warning made it possible 
for the fraudster to navigate around it;
I accept the warning addresses the concept of moving funds and I note that Lloyds thinks that ought to have been enough. But it clearly wasnt in this case and I find 
thats understandable in the circumstances. The fraudster had convinced Ms B that 
what she was being asked to do was different to the information contained within the 
warning. And Im satisfied that at the time Ms B felt an urgent need to act and was in 
a panicked state. All of this emotion was created by the fraudster to maximise the 
prospect of the scam succeeding. These are the tricks commonly used by fraudsters 
and they will, at times, mean customers move past warnings given and yet will have 
done so reasonably;
Ultimately, its important not to forget Ms B was convinced she was talking to the 
bank, for the reasons Ive explained, and customers do tend to follow the instructions 
banks give them  particularly when it comes to concerns about fraudulent activity on 
their account(s);
The absence of any suggested action or steps to take to ensure the legitimacy of 
what she was being told meant Ms B was not well-informed about what she might do 
to avoid falling victim to the scam. And so, all in all, I dont think Ms B acted 
unreasonably so as to fail to take appropriate action in response to the warning she 
had been presented with.
Im satisfied that the firm has not shown that the consumer lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
Im satisfied Ms B was completely unaware of the possibility that fraudsters could 
spoof text messages in the way they did here. Banks can and do text customers 
about possible fraudulent activity on their account.
It is not then surprising or unreasonable that Ms B didnt check the contact number 
given in the text. She believed the number had been supplied by the bank directly 
and so, in her mind, she had no reason to check it. 
This level of trust, combined with the persuasive nature of the caller and the urgency 
of the situation, meant Ms B felt compelled to act and reasonably believed she was 
doing the right thing.
I dont find the banks point about Ms B not questioning the destination accounts, and 
that they sat outside of Lloyds, to be impactful on the case. As Ms B has stated in her 
correspondence, its not reasonable to expect customers to be able to identify 
destination accounts by their sort code. And nor would I expect them to check the 
sort codes prior to making a payment. Some customers might do so, and that may 
even break the fraudsters spell for them, but I dont find Ms B can be said to not have 
had a reasonable basis for belief in not carrying out such checks.
did Ms B meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code?
Ive considered all of the exceptions that might apply under the CRM Code and, in doing so, 
Ive thought about whether Ms B met her requisite level of care. Having done so I find that 
she has. And so Lloyds ought to have refunded Ms B under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
In those circumstances Lloyds should now fairly and reasonable compensate Ms B by 
refunding her the £32,854.16 she lost as a result of the scam.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam, bearing in mind good industry
practice at the time and considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
case?Our investigator said that, on top of her findings around the application of the CRM Code, 
Lloyds ought to have done more to prevent the fraud from occurring. That was on the basis 
that the payments out of the accounts were particularly unusual. The bank has obligations to 
monitor accounts and to act when it appears a customer might be at risk of fraud or financial 
harm. Lloyds has offered very little comment on this aspect of the case although I accept it 
has a minimal impact on the outcome, given Ive decided Ms B shouldve been reimbursed 
under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to interest payable only.   
I do find the bank ought to have stepped in to question the payments, given they 
represented unusual activity across the two accounts. But I think this intervention ought to 
have come at the point the second payment was attempted out of the child saver account, 
rather than first as suggested by our investigator.
Im mindful that it isnt uncommon for customers to make large, one-off payments from their 
savings accounts. That is, after all, often the purpose behind having savings - putting money 
aside for a large expense. And thats why Im satisfied the first payment neednt have 
necessarily led to questioning by the bank. But the second payment was then made in quick 
succession and means the account activity does become more unusual. 
Lloyds ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of the payment before processing it. 
Had it done so the scam would more likely than not have been quickly revealed and 
prevented. Ms B would have had no reason to hide the intended purpose of the payments 
from the bank. Shed been given no cover story to supply in the event of contact from 
genuine bank staff. And anyone from the bank would have quickly recognised the features of 
the scam and been able to stop the loss from occurring. 
In this case Ms B was on the phone to the fraudster at the point she made the payments. So 
Ive considered Lloyds might not have been able to speak with her at the time. But given the 
unusualness of the second payment Lloyds shouldnt have processed it until it reassured 
itself Ms B was not likely at risk of financial harm.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should:
refund Ms B the full £32,854.16 lost to the scam, minus the recovered money shes 
already had back;
for the first payment out of the child saver account - pay interest on the refund at the 
applicable account rate, from date the bank declined the fraud claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement;
for the remaining funds that originated from the child saver account - pay interest at 
the applicable account rate from the date the money left the account to the date of 
settlement; 
for the funds that originated from the current account  pay interest at 8% simple per 
year from the date the money left the account to the date of settlement; and 
pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms B. Ive 
considered:
oLloyds ought to have stepped in when the second payment was being made 
and so missed an opportunity to prevent much of the scam from proceeding;
oLloyds ought to have refunded Ms B under the CRM Code when she raised 
her fraud claim; andothe bank dealt with Ms B poorly when she reported the scam. This has clearly 
been acknowledged by the bank and theres record of that acceptance in its 
notes. But it appears to have offered nothing to Ms B as a result. I find this is 
particularly relevant as Ms B was already significantly distressed having just 
lost significant sums of money to a scam. And so to not be treated with care 
and empathy by bank staff was clearly upsetting for her.
If Lloyds is legally required to deduct tax from the interest award it should send Ms B a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC as appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and it should pay the redress Ive set out 
above, upon Ms Bs acceptance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman