DRN-2251327
The complaint
Mr G complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mis-sold him a 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) for a new car.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G attended a dealership and discussed taking out a PCP for a new car 
with a salesperson. They spoke about the mileage allowance and Mr G says the 
salesperson advised him that, if he exceeded the set limit, then he would face charges. Mr G 
says he opted for a higher mileage allowance, as that was better safe than sorry, and also 
because the salesperson told him that he could always reduce the mileage allowance later, 
thereby reducing the monthly payments for the car.
Mr G signed a four-year PCP with a 12,000 per year mileage allowance.
In March 2020, Mr G reviewed his usage of the car and felt that a 10,000 mileage allowance 
would better suit his needs. He tried to contact the salesperson but, due to the COVID-19 
situation, was unable to make contact. After some further delays he was advised he would 
need to speak with BMWFS.
In June 2020, Mr G contacted BMWFS and asked to reduce the mileage allowance on his 
agreement. BMWFS told him that this wasnt an option that was available.
Mr G complained to BMWFS that the PCP had been mis-sold to him, as he had been 
advised reducing the mileage allowance was an option available to him during the lifetime of 
the agreement.
BMWFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it didnt know what had been said by the 
salesperson, but the dealership had confirmed that it was aware reducing the mileage 
allowance, after an agreement had been taken out, wasnt an option. BMWFS said there 
wasnt enough evidence to say Mr G had been mis-sold the PCP.
Mr G disagreed with what BMWFS decision and complained to this service. Mr G said he 
was upset that BMWFS had said he had lied about what the salesperson had said. He said it 
was unfair that there was an option to increase the mileage allowance, but not one to 
decrease it. He asked that he either be allowed to amend the mileage allowance or be given 
a rebate for the difference in cost between a 10,000 and 12,000 allowance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He said that, 
while Mr G had said hed been advised he could reduce the mileage allowance, the 
dealership denied this. And, where the evidence was incomplete or contradictory, then he 
would have to base his view on the balance of probabilities. 
Mr G had supplied a chain of emails hed sent to the dealership, after hed taken the car and 
reviewed his mileage, seeking to reduce the mileage limit. It was as a result of these emails 
hed then contact BMWFS to make his request. However, our investigator said he didnt 
think these emails supported Mr Gs view that the dealership had misled him. As, although 
Mr G had asked about reducing the mileage, the responses from the dealership hadnt said 
whether he could or he couldnt do so. They therefore didnt confirm the dealership had 
given the wrong information.
Looking at the PCP agreement, our investigator said he could see that Mr G had signed and 
agreed to a 12,000 per year mileage allowance. The contract set out the charge per mile 
should this be exceeded. The agreement did not contain any option for seeking to adjust the 
mileage limit.
Our investigator said that he thought it was fair to say that Mr G hadnt been sure about how 
much mileage he would be completing and that it would probably be nice to have a higher 
allowance in place in case of the possibility hed exceed a lower limit. Our investigator said 
he didnt think the main reason for Mr G entering the contract was having an option to lower 
the mileage allowance. So, he didnt think the agreement had been mis-sold to Mr G.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view. He said that, had he been told the option about 
reducing the mileage allowance wasnt available, then he would have thought more carefully 
about deciding the allowance that was appropriate. Mr G was upset that his evidence wasnt 
being believed.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says a lender, like BMWFS, may be 
liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions by the dealer. Mr G says that the 
salesperson at the dealership misrepresented that the PCP could be later altered, so that 
the mileage allowance was adjusted downwards, thereby reducing the monthly costs. 
However, the dealership said Mr G was not given this information, as it says its aware this 
isnt an option thats available.
Im sorry Mr G feels his integrity is being called into question by BMWFS, but I dont think it 
was saying he was lying about events. What BMWFS had said was that it didnt know what 
had been said by the parties, and as there was no evidence that corroborated what Mr G 
said, such as a note about mileages in the dealerships file, then there wasnt enough 
evidence to say a misrepresentation about the mileage allowance had occurred. 
To decide if a misrepresentation had occurred, I need to be satisfied that the salesperson 
probably told Mr G something that was untrue, and that untrue statement, on its own, 
induced him to take out this PCP. Looking at what has been said, I accept that its more 
likely than not there was a conversation about the mileage allowance, and Mr G was 
warned about the potential cost of exceeding an allowance. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for the salesperson to raise this, as the charge per mile for exceeding the 
mileage allowance can be more expensive than agreeing a higher mileage at the start of 
the agreement. 
I also think that its unlikely there would have been a substantial difference in the monthly 
cost for a 10,000 annual mileage allowance and a 12,000 mileage allowance. It wouldnt 
have been the equivalent of the excess mileage cost under the agreement. And I 
understand, from the file held by the dealership, that no quotes for other mileages were requested by Mr G, so the actual costs involved dont appear to have been discussed. I 
also think that this makes it fair to say Mr G wasnt settled on what his mileage needs were 
and, at the time, was happy to take a higher limit just in case.
 
I think Mr G has been consistent about what he says the salesperson said about the 
mileage allowance being changeable. So, I think that its likely there was an untrue 
statement by the dealership that Mr G could seek to reduce the mileage allowance during 
the life of the agreement. But I dont think it was this factor alone that induced him into 
taking out the PCP. I appreciate Mr G says he wouldnt have signed the agreement if hed 
known this option wasnt open, and he would have instead thought more carefully about 
what his mileage was likely to be. But Ive seen there was no discussion about the 
difference in the costs between the various mileage allowances, or whether there was an 
impact on the guaranteed future value if other mileage limits were applied. So, I think its 
fair to say that, if this had been such an important option to Mr G, then there would have 
been much more discussion.
So, I think in the circumstances its more likely than not that had Mr G been told he couldnt 
alter the mileage he would have still opted for the higher mileage allowance, as that 
provided a safety net against the excess mileage charges. Particularly as, at the time Mr G 
took out the PCP, he wasnt aware of the mileage hed require.
I appreciate that it was disappointing for Mr G not to have the option available, but I cant 
reasonably say that the agreement was mis-sold for the reasons given above. Im not 
upholding Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman