DRN-1113860
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Miss A says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1995 Miss A took out a PPI policy in connection with her mortgage. Nationwide can't say 
how the sale came about because things happened so long ago. Miss A remembers it was a 
meeting.
The policy provided protection for Miss A's mortgage payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for 
up to 24 months per claim and at the outset it cost around £24 a month.
At the time of the sale Miss A was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full followed by six months' half-pay. She said she had savings she could use to 
make her repayments along with help from her flat mate whose rent covered the mortgage. 
She also said she was in good health at the time.
Nationwide's records show the mortgage account and the PPI ended in 2000.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Miss A chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Miss A disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Miss A's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss A's complaint and my reasons are set out 
below:
did Miss A know she had a choice about PPI  did she agree to take it out?Nationwide doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising 
given how long ago things happened  its also nearly 20 years since the mortgage account 
closed. Businesses aren't obliged to keep records indefinitely, so I can't hold this against 
Nationwide.
I accept it's possible Nationwide didn't give Miss A a choice about PPI. But given the limited 
evidence, and given the passage of time, I dont think I can fairly say that Nationwide more 
likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Miss A didn't agree to 
take it out. I think it's just as likely Miss A chose and agreed to take it out, and she's now 
forgotten that she did so.
did Nationwide advise Miss A?
Miss A says Nationwide advised her to take out PPI. Nationwide says this was a non-
advised sale.
Because of the limited evidence now available - and because Miss A hasn't expanded on 
why she believes Nationwide recommended the cover to her - I've not seen enough to 
persuade me this was an advised sale. 
This means Nationwide didn't have to check that the PPI was right for Miss A  but it did 
have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could make 
that decision for herself.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave 
Miss A about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. For example the evidence doesn't 
tell me that the significant exclusions to or limits on the cover were clearly brought to her 
attention, or that the cost was made clear. But as I found above, I think Miss A likely chose 
to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Miss A off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Nationwide might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Miss A PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she would still have 
gone ahead and taken out PPI had Nationwide done anything more.
This means I don't think Miss A has lost out as a result of having PPI with her mortgage, so 
Nationwide doesn't have to pay her back what she paid for the policy.
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said - including what she's said about her existing 
means - her sick pay and her flat-mate's rental income - which means she didn't need the 
policy. And what she's said about the lack of evidence from Nationwide to show it wasn't 
mis-sold. But these points dont change my decision.
Whilst Miss A did have some means she could use to make her mortgage repayments if 
things went wrong (albeit I'm not persuaded relying on rental income could reasonably be 
considered as guaranteed) the policy would've paid out in addition to these and for longer 
than her sick pay and savings would've lasted - up to 24 months per claim.This would've helped to relieve any financial pressure Miss A would've likely come under if 
the insured risks became a reality and if she found herself unable to work for an extended 
period.
I therefore think the policy could've been useful to Miss A and it would've helped her manage 
the consequences if things went wrong.
I can see Miss A considers the adjudicator has shown bias by not upholding her complaint 
when Nationwide can't provide evidence that her policy wasn't mis-sold.
As I said above, things happened many years ago. Because of this I don't think it is fair or 
reasonable to expect Nationwide to still have documents or substantive records from the 
time of the sale. It certainly wouldn't be fair for me to simply uphold Miss A's complaint on 
the basis that Nationwide can't now produce this evidence.
I can assure Miss A that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an impartial service. 
In deciding this complaint I've carefully considered what both parties have said and provided. 
And having done so and carefully weighed things up, for the reasons I've set out above, I've 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman