DRN-2937130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain BUPA Insurance Limited refused to refund or waive premiums, after 
they were unable to access treatment. 
What happened
Mrs W holds private medical insurance with BUPA, and Mr W is named on her policy. 
Mr and Mrs W said Mr W had been in need of a knee replacement for some time, but 
couldnt afford to take the time off work for the expected recovery of three months. During 
the covid-19 pandemic, Mr W was unable to work due to the government lockdown. And said 
this was an ideal time for him to have the knee replacement surgery and recovery period. 
Mr and Mrs W attempted to arrange the surgery in April 2020, but their preferred hospital 
advised they were unable to carry the operation at that time, due to the pandemic. Mr and 
Mrs W told BUPA they were unhappy to be paying for a service they couldnt receive. And 
BUPA agreed to give a premium-free period of three months on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W said they tried to book the surgery again a few months later, but the hospital 
advised operations were unlikely to take place again until October 2020. And they said as Mr 
Ws surgery still couldnt be booked, they thought BUPA should offer some further free 
months on the policy. 
BUPA declined to waive any further premiums, and Mr and Mrs W complained. BUPA said it 
had already offered three months free, and couldnt offer any further premium reduction. But 
it offered to freeze premiums if Mr and Mrs W were in financial difficulties. And it said if it 
found there was a financial benefit to the reduction in claims itd paid during the pandemic, it 
would look to pass this back to consumers. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think BUPA had acted 
unfairly. 
BUPA didnt make any comments on the investigators view. However, Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with it. They said they still thought it was wrong that BUPA had continued to 
collect premiums whilst they were unable to access treatment. And they asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Subsequent to bringing the complaint, Mrs Ws policy came up for renewal towards the end 
of 2020, and she chose not to continue. And after its review and calculations, BUPA 
provided a premium rebate of over £200 to Mrs W in June 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws 
contract with BUPA, as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and industry 
guidance.
Firstly, I should clarify Mr and Mrs W raised some customer service issues when bringing 
their complaint, which our investigator looked into. She didnt think BUPA had done anything 
wrong, and Mr and Mrs W didnt dispute this when asking for a decision from an 
ombudsman, so I wont comment on this any further. 
Ive focussed on what I believe to be the crux of the complaint, which is the lack of access to 
treatment, and the premiums paid for the policy during that time. Having done so, Im 
satisfied BUPA hasnt acted unfairly. And I say this for the following reasons. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly that BUPA shouldnt retain the 
premiums they paid, whilst they were unable to access the treatment Mr W needed. 
However, insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an event happening 
over the duration of the contract. And an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums 
paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim is made. BUPA 
provided cover under Mrs Ws policy for the duration of her policy year, and 
authorised the treatment which was requested, so its entitled to retain the premium.
Its really unfortunate that Mr W was unable to undergo knee surgery while he wasnt 
working, and I appreciate this would have been the most convenient time for him. But 
I dont think this is something I can hold BUPA responsible for. The postponement 
was due to private medical facilities being taken over by the NHS, in response to the 
pandemic. This temporarily affected BUPAs ability to provide the full range of 
services it would usually be able to offer. This was an unprecedented and unforeseen 
event, and Im satisfied it was beyond BUPAs control. And I dont think theres 
anything more BUPA could reasonably have done for Mr W in the circumstances. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs Ws chosen hospital said it could continue with operations from 
October 2020, but they hadnt gone ahead with the surgery by the time the policy 
ended in December 2020. 
BUPA has said non-urgent treatment had to be postponed during the pandemic, but 
it was still making provisions for urgently required treatment, such as for customers 
diagnosed with cancer. This included allowing the use of hospitals and consultants 
not usually available under the policies. Im persuaded that had Mr or Mrs W needed 
urgent treatment, BUPA would have made arrangements for this. However, I think its 
fair to say Mr Ws surgery wasnt urgent in nature. Mr and Mrs W have said the 
surgery was something Mr W had needed for some time, but had previously not gone 
ahead with, due to the time he would have to take off work to recover. And as Ive 
said, Mr W didnt go ahead with the surgery between October 2020 and when the 
policy ended. 
BUPA has said it put additional services in place to assist consumers during the 
pandemic. This included making services available from home, such as virtual GP 
access and virtual consultations. And I think this was a reasonable way of offering 
consumers benefits under their policies, whilst usual services were restricted. BUPA gave Mr and Mrs W a three month premium-free period in April 2020, after 
they were unable to book Mr Ws surgery. BUPA said this isnt something it was 
offering to all customers, but it was offered as a loyalty discount due to the policy 
history. As Ive said above, access to non-urgent treatment was restricted due to the 
pandemic, and Im satisfied this was beyond BUPAs control. So I wouldnt have 
directed BUPA to offer Mr and Mrs W any refund, or free months on their policy, in 
these particular circumstances. And I think BUPAs decision to do so shows it was 
acting fairly. 
BUPA said it was able to support customers in financial difficulty by agreeing a 
temporary suspension of premiums, during which time, claims couldnt be made. 
BUPA offered this option to Mr and Mrs W, but they declined and said they didnt 
want to provide details of their financial circumstances. 
At the time of responding to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, BUPA said it was in the 
process of assessing the financial impacts of the reduction in claims during the 
pandemic, and said it would provide premium rebates to consumers if possible, 
which I think is fair. BUPA has since paid a rebate to Mrs W in June 2021.
Whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W, Ive not found that 
BUPA has acted unfairly. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman