DRN-3440730
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Premier account in 
2011. He says he did not agree to this account. Amongst other things Mr N is also unhappy 
that this account went into an unagreed overdraft, that a direct debit was charged that he 
says he did not agree to and that statements were not issued to him.
What happened
Prior to this complaint being brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Lloyds credited 
Mr N with £100 to reflect conflicting information provided to Mr N during the complaint 
process.
One of our adjudicators assessed this complaint and they felt that the £100 Lloyds offered to 
Mr N was reasonable. Mr N did not agree with this.
This decision will only address whether the Premier account was mis-sold. I note that Mr N is 
also unhappy with the way he was treated in relation to his overdraft balance and various 
transactions that he disputes. As we have explained before, this would need to be dealt with 
separately by Lloyds in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ns complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr N 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr N was given a fair choice in taking out the Premier 
account. Mr N had held a fee-free account prior to taking out the Premier account. So I think 
that he wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were generally available. 
Mr N says he did not agree to this account. But had he not agreed to this account, I think 
that its likely he wouldve queried much earlier than he did, why his account had been 
changed. Especially on receipt of the letter in August 2011 confirming that the account was 
now a Premier account, with a potential monthly fee and a range of benefits.
At the time the Premier account was taken out it cost £25 a month and came with a number 
of benefits they included Worldwide Travel Insurance, Breakdown cover, Mobile phone 
insurance, Home emergency cover and preferential rates on savings accounts. Importantly 
the monthly fee was waived if the balance of the account was maintained above £10,000. 
I can see that for the first three years or so, the balance of the account was maintained 
above this figure. I also can see that a Savings account with preferential rates was opened 
at the time the account became a Premier account and a considerable amount was 
transferred into this account which meant that Mr N was benefiting from a preferential rate of 
interest. Finally, I can see that Mr N contacted the Travel insurance provider on two 
occasions. This suggests that Mr N was aware that he had an account with additional 
benefits and how he could avoid the monthly fee.
So overall, on balance, I think that Mr N agreed to the Premier account albeit in 
circumstances he no longer recalls due to the combination of benefits that it came with.
This account was recommended to Mr N. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was 
broadly a reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time. Given that the Mr N initially met 
the fee waiver criteria, opened a savings account to benefit from preferential rates and 
contacted the travel insurance provider I cant say that this account was unsuitable for him. 
So I dont think Lloyds recommendation was unreasonable.
I accept that Mr N may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of the 
benefits that the Premier account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr 
Ns circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he 
been given even more information.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, he may now believe that his account was mis-
sold. But based on what Mr N has said, alongside all of the available evidence that I have 
seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that the Premier account was mis-sold. I also 
cant see any request to downgrade the account prior to when his complaint was raised so I 
cant ask Lloyds to refund any of the Premier account fees that he paid as I cant see that 
they were incorrectly applied.
I note Mr Ns other reasons as to why he thinks Lloyds has not acted correctly in relation to 
his Premier account. For example, Mr N says he has never received a debit card for this 
account, he did not receive statements for this account and that he has been given 
conflicting information about this account. From what I can see I can see that a debit card 
has been used on this account, which suggests he was given a debit card. If its the case 
that Mr N is saying he did not make any of these numerous transactions, he would need to 
raise this directly with Lloyds in the first instance. 
I also can see that the statements were issued to the address that Lloyds held for Mr N. I 
cant see anything to suggest that Mr N asked for his address to be changed or that Lloyds 
failed to action any request to amend where the statements were sent. So I dont think 
Lloyds did anything wrong in relation to this. 
Overall I think that what Lloyds has already done is sufficient and I am not going to ask for 
anything more.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman