The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) gave poor 
customer service and conflicting information following a duplicated balance transfer on her 
credit card. 
What happened
Mrs H has a credit card with Barclays and made a balance transfer to another credit card to 
take advantage of a promotional interest rate. Mrs H received a text from Barclays saying 
her account had exceeded her limit and was advised that there was a potential fraud. 
Barclays then told Mrs H the error was their fault and a second balance transfer had been 
made in error. Barclays then admitted they had got this wrong and both transfers had been 
made from her online account. Mrs H was asked to obtain the refund from the other card 
provider. Mrs H asked for interest, charges and her credit file to be amended. Barclays did 
this and paid her £175 to reflect the inconvenience caused. Mrs H didnt think this fairly 
reflected the trouble she had gone through.
Barclays admit they did give poor service and incorrect information to Mrs H but as both 
payments were made from her online account and as it wasnt their mistake, £175 was a fair 
award for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs H was unhappy with their response 
and referred this case to this service.
The Investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt that whilst Barclays had initially given 
mis-information surrounding the payments, this had been clarified and the compensation 
offered fairly reflected the inconvenience caused to Mrs H.
Mrs H was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain 
the reasons for my decision.
When considering Mrs H complaint, I have looked at whether Barclays should have provided 
a higher level of compensation to Mrs H, taking into account the inconvenience caused and 
the communication errors they admitted to making. 
DRN-1640812I can see from the information provided that Mrs H received conflicting messages from 
Barclays initially saying that a fraud may have been carried out, one of the balance transfers 
was their mistake and then confirming the two payments had been made via her online 
account. Barclays were slow in getting back to Mrs H after she had tried to contact them on 
several occasions and I can see that all of this would have been frustrating and upsetting for 
Mrs H. I can also see that she would be worried a fraud may have taken place on her 
account. 
Barclays have since written and apologised to Mrs H and made a compensation payment of 
£175 to reflect the poor service and stress and inconvenience caused. Barclays have also 
refunded all the related interest and charges, reinstated the promotional interest rate and 
amended her credit file, which is what I would expect to see here.  
Barclays says the compensation is fair and reasonable, given that the balance transfers 
were made from Mrs H online account and it wasnt an error on their part - despite their initial 
admission that it was. 
Mrs H says that she didnt make the second payment but from the evidence I have seen it 
shows that Mrs H logged on to her account online, and on both occasions initiated the 
balance transfers. Looking at the statements provided I can see a balance transfer was 
made from Mrs Hs account followed by a second balance transfer a few days later.
Barclays have also confirmed there were no technical issues or system problems when 
these balance transfers were made, as a result only someone with access to Mrs H online 
account could have initiated the transfer. Having considered all of this, and from the 
information I have seen, I am satisfied, on balance, both balance transfers were initiated by 
Mrs H. 
I know Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but taking into account all of the 
evidence mentioned before, I am satisfied that Barclays have been fair and reasonable with 
the amount of compensation awarded to her and it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman