DRN-2640764
The complaint
Ms M complains as executor of the estate of the late Mrs M about the way that Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with the estates home insurance claim for water 
damage.
What happened
Mrs M passed away in December 2018. In February 2019 Ms M was visiting her late 
mothers house when she discovered that a pipe had burst in the loft, causing considerable 
damage throughout. She made a claim to RSA, on behalf of her late mothers estate. It 
reviewed the matter and noted that there was a breach of an unoccupancy condition. But as 
it hadnt made this clear to Ms M, it decided it would cover the claim. It appointed a drying 
company (R) to carry out strip out and drying. This took longer than it should, due to 
excessive strip outs and the failure to do a proper asbestos survey before starting the strip 
outs. Ms M was also dissatisfied with the loss adjusters, who she says failed to deal with the 
contractors and with the contractors themselves who she said carried out poor workmanship, 
used the toilets without running water and wrote offensive graffiti on the mirror. She further 
said that the insurance the property had with a damp/dry rot specialist company was 
invalidated by the property not being dried out properly.
RSA replied to Ms Ms complaint in a final response letter of 29 April 2020. It agreed that 
there were unacceptable delays in the drying process, which had to be restarted, and that 
the presence of asbestos was identified too late. It also accepted that it delayed in accepting 
the claim due to its enquiries about occupancy. It made a £500 ex gratia payment to the 
estate. It agreed to cover some of Ms Ms expenditure but wouldnt cover the additional 
solicitors costs she said the estate had incurred. It further pointed out an extract from our 
website that this service couldnt award compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
executors.
Ms M was dissatisfied with RSAs response, she felt the it hadnt reviewed her complaints 
properly. With regard to compensation, she didnt believe this was enough and pointed out 
that there was no such information on our website.
As of February 2021 Ms M has informed us that the claim has been settled by the estate 
accepting a cash payment for diminution of value in lieu of carrying out any further repairs.
On review by our investigator he reiterated that we have no power to award compensation 
for distress and inconvenience to executors. He noted that RSA had paid some costs 
including alternative accommodation, garden maintenance, travel and council costs. With 
regard to the solicitors costs Ms M said the estate had incurred he said he thought that RSA 
would be willing to review this if she provided specific evidence.
Again Ms M didnt accept that we couldnt award her compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, pointing out that we didnt say this on our website and that it wasnt advised 
to her when she lodged her complaint. She expected a full investigation of her complaints to 
be carried out. She had also asked RSA if, in principle, it would consider payment of the 
solicitors additional costs and that it had referred her back to this service. So she wanted a 
direction that it consider those further costs. She also pointed out that due to delay in the 
sale of the property the estate had had additional insurance premiums to pay.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should firstly set out what I can do within my powers under the dispute resolution rules. 
Ms M is eligible to make a complaint, as executor and personal representative of her late 
mothers estate. The beneficiary under the insurance policy is the estate. This means that, 
however much the case might merit it, I cant make an award for distress and inconvenience 
to Ms M. It appears that RSA was looking at an old edition of our website when it mentioned 
this to Ms M. But it is still the case. RSA has made an ex gratia payment of £500 to the 
estate but only this service can decide matters of jurisdiction. Whilst this may not have been 
mentioned when Ms M lodged her complaint, as Ive said Ms M is eligible to make a 
complaint and matters affecting the estate may still be in issue
Secondly, this service acts as an alternative dispute resolution service. Our function is to 
resolve disputes informally between the parties. If agreement cant be reached then I can 
consider making an award, but as Ive said this cant include compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. And, as a settlement has been reached between the parties, apart from the 
issue of the insurance premiums and legal costs there are no directions I can make in 
respect of the running of the case or financial losses. So, my view is that apart from 
recognising Ms Ms major issues of complaint there is nothing to be gained from carrying out 
further investigations.
Thirdly, technically I can only consider matters up until the final response letter of 29 April 
2020. Any matters that arose after that should be put to RSA as a new complaint. Having 
said that, as Ive noted, this matter has been settled and Ms M should bear that in mind if 
she contends there are any further financial losses. And obviously we still cant award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As a final preliminary point. Ms M complains about the way that her complaint was dealt with 
by RSA, particularly that it took longer than eight weeks to provide its response. And that the 
response was wholly inadequate. Generally, complaints handling by a business isnt a 
regulated activity so I cant consider that issue further.
Ms Ms complaints relate to what she describes as issues of incompetence, negligence (for 
buildings and contents), neglect, malpractice, misrepresentation, health and safety non-
compliance/breach, unprofessionalism, lack of respect and loss of trust. The main examples 
of this are:
delay
The loss was first reported in February 2019. RSA has said it would expect repairs in such a 
case to take nine to ten months, which means it should have been completed by December 
2019. There were delays after that because of the Covid situation, but the repairs shouldnt 
have taken long enough for that to be an issue. There were major faults with the drying, the 
strip out was excessive and the property had no heating in place. Ms M says that RSAs 
surveyor wasnt a surveyor (although I should point out that the term surveyor is not 
reserved for chartered surveyors). She pointed out that he didnt supervise this properly 
meaning that the drying certificate wasnt valid and the drying had to be started over again. Also R failed to ensure the dehumidifiers were working correctly. I think thats a fair 
assessment and RSA has admitted its liability here.
asbestos 
The property was stripped out without a full asbestos survey being done. Subsequently 
when testing was done, it was found that asbestos material had been disturbed. Again this 
held up the drying. This was a breach of health and safety rules. RSA has agreed this was a 
serious matter and that its contractors were at fault.
woodwork guarantee
There was cover in place in respect of wood-rotting fungi, timber boring insects and damp-
proof course. This cover was prejudiced by the failure to dry out. I accept that this was the 
case. However the settlement was accepted by Ms M and based on the diminution in value 
so there is no further action I can take here.
using toilets and writing offensive graffiti
Ms M says the contractors failed to arrange for a portaloo and used the toilets without 
running water. They also drew an offensive drawing on the bathroom mirror. This hasnt 
been mentioned by RSA but I nevertheless believe it happened and was upsetting to Ms M.
The above matters are not an exhaustive list but nevertheless in my view represent the main 
points. No doubt if Ms M had been the policyholder and was living in the property, a higher 
award of compensation for distress and inconvenience could have been made. But as I cant 
make such an award it has to be left that those are my findings
insurance premiums
Ms M has pointed out that the estate continued to pay insurance premiums after the March 
2020 renewal. And as the property was intended to be sold before then, the premiums were 
wasted. RSA has said that the repairs should have been completed by December 2019. 
However I dont think it likely that the property would have been sold by the March renewal, 
so the premiums would have been incurred anyway. If Ms M wants to raise the issue post 
April 2020 she should take this up with RSA.
legal costs
Ms M asserts that the estate incurred legal costs due to the delays. Our investigator said that 
he believes RSA would be willing to consider these issues if exact details could be supplied. 
These would have to relate to costs incurred because of the delays, not because of the 
insurance claim or administering the estate. Ms M has approached RSA to ask if in principle 
it would be prepared to consider this and it has said it wont take any action pending this 
services decision on the matter. So I think it should consider the issue of excess legal costs 
if Ms M supplies it with exact details of the wasted costs. It should provide its decision in this 
respect within 28 days of Ms M supplying that information.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, within 28 days 
of receipt from Ms M of exact details of the estates legal costs wasted because of the 
delays, to consider payment of those costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M as executor 
of the estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman