DRN-3901948
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has declined his claim for 
stolen jewellery under his home insurance policy.
Ill refer to all representatives and experts used as RSA to avoid confusion.
What happened
Mr R made a claim for two watches and a ring. He said the items had been stolen in a 
burglary from his home. RSA involved experts in validating the claim due to the value of the 
items. The experts noted that one of the watches had been claimed for previously and RSA 
had declined that claim at the time. Once this second claim was fully reviewed, based on the 
evidence, RSA declined the claim and voided the policy from the start. Mr R was unhappy 
with this, he wants his claim paid in full and his policy reinstated, so he brought a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought it was reasonable for RSA 
to undertake further investigation into this claim. Our investigator reviewed the explanations 
given and noted the lack of supporting evidence from Mr R. He said on balance RSA had 
acted reasonably when it declined the claim and voided the policy.
Mr R didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA referred back to the earlier claim when declining this second claim. It said the earlier 
claim: was declined as you were unable to give a plausible explanation as to how the watch 
was found as you advised that you lost the watch whilst on the beach which was then 
returned to yourself anonymously, but were unable to justify your rationale. It continued that 
based on the expert review your policy was voided on the 22 December 2021 due to a 
breach of the fraud condition of the policy.
RSA said Your policy contains a specific fraud condition which outlines the consequences 
of a breach in the requirement for honesty. This is contained on page 58 of the policy booklet 
and states the following:
You and your family must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you or anyone acting for you:
 makes a claim under the policy knowing the claim to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in 
any respect or makes a statement in support of a claim knowing the statements be false in 
any respect; or
 submits a document in support of a claim knowing the document to be forged or false in 
any respect; or  makes a claim
in respect of any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or with your knowledge; or
 makes a fraudulent payment by bank account and/or card; then your insurer:
 may not pay the claim;
 may cancel or at their option declare the policy void from the date the fraud occurred;
 may not make any return of premium;
 may inform the police, other financial services organizations and anti-fraud databases of 
the circumstances as set out under the Fraud prevention and anti-money laundering section 
at the rear of this document.
To conclude RSA said The evidence supports that your claim has not been honestly 
presented, and that you are in breach of the requirement to present the claim in good faith. 
In light of this, RSA underwriters have decided your claim has been voided.
I wouldnt normally refer to any earlier previous claim. But its been unavoidable as both RSA 
and Mr R have mentioned it while dealing with this second claim and the complaint. In the 
first claim RSA didnt feel that the watch couldve been lost in the way Mr R claimed. 
Because the watch was later part of this second claim RSA queried this with Mr R. He said 
the watch had been returned to him anonymously following the previous claim.
RSA had concerns about this, it felt there were inconsistencies around the details provided 
by Mr R. RSA logged the first claim under the category of high suspicion. So, it then 
considered the issues around the second claim for this watch and the additional items. And 
in view of the issues RSA felt it was entitled to investigate the second claim further. It noted 
that Mr R hadnt mentioned the previous claim when prompted and it felt there were 
inconsistencies with the items reported to the police. I think thats a reasonable approach 
from RSA in the circumstances.
Our investigator said that Mr R had given him a different recollection of the circumstances 
surrounding the return of the watch following the earlier claim. But he did let Mr R know that 
he would be willing to review any evidence to go with the different recollection. Mr R said his 
items had been offered for sale locally by one of the burglars but nothing further was 
provided to this service for us to consider. Mr R suggested conversations could be held with 
a local bar manager who knew of the details surrounding the claim and the theft of Mr Rs 
car keys, but he didnt produce any evidence to back any of these points up.
This service can only act on the evidence that has been produced by Mr R and RSA. All the 
details Ive seen suggests to me that RSA acted fairly and reasonably when it declined to 
deal with the claim and to void the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman