DRN-4005873
The complaint
Miss F and Mr M are unhappy because they say that Openwork Limited mis-sold them life 
and serious illness policies. 
What happened
Miss F and Mr M took out a number of protection policies, which included policies offering 
cover for serious illness. 
Miss F made a claim for a serious illness. This was declined because the insurer said Miss F 
hadnt disclosed details of migraines. The insurer cancelled Miss Fs plans and refunded the 
premiums. 
Miss F complained to Openwork because she said shed told the advisor about her 
migraines but was told they didnt need to be disclosed unless they were frequent or 
debilitating. Openwork issued a final response letter saying that Miss F hadnt disclosed her 
migraines, according to the information captured during the sales process. They said the 
advisor had confirmed she wouldnt have told Miss F not to disclose any medical conditions. 
Unhappy with Openworks response, Miss F referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think there was enough 
evidence that the financial advisor did provide incorrect advice or guidance. Miss F asked an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she didnt know why the insurer had made 
the connection between her symptoms of migraines and the decision to decline her claim for 
the serious illness. She said the policies were taken over the phone and had relied on the 
advice from Openwork that she didnt need to provide more information about her migraines. 
The investigator checked to see if there was a copy of the call recording, but it was no longer 
was available. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss F has been so significantly impacted by the circumstances 
surrounding the claims, particularly following a recent and unexpected diagnosis for the 
medical condition which led her to claim. I can understand that this has been a difficult time, 
especially when she has a young family to support. 
Miss F has also made a complaint about the insurers decision to decline the claim and their 
decision to cancel the policies and refund the premiums. My decision will focus on the sale 
of the policies.   
Openwork provided Miss F with advice about the serious illness policies. The relevant rules 
and industry guidelines say that they needed to make sure the policy was right for her. And 
they needed to give her clear, fair and mis-leading information about the policies. 
Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint because: 
The evidence from the point of sale documentation makes no mention of the 
disclosure of the migraines and other symptoms Miss F had experienced which were 
attributed to her migraines at the time. 
Ive taken into account Miss Fs testimony that the advisor told her that the 
information about her migraines didnt need to be disclosed. But theres no 
persuasive information or evidence that supports that this discussion took place. 
Miss F was sent information by the advisor and the insurer after the sale. This 
prompted Miss F to check the information in the documentation was correct. If Miss F 
had any concerns about the answers recorded, she had the opportunity to revisit this 
with Openwork or the insurer.  
Ive taken into account what Miss F has said about the connection between her 
symptoms and her more recent diagnosis. But the insurer has demonstrated they 
wouldnt have offered her a policy if this information had been disclosed. So, the 
connection between the two issues isnt central to the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman