DRN-2893405
The complaint
Ms C says TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Ms C took out two guarantor loans from TFS as summarised below. She used some of the 
funds from loan 2 to repay loan 1.
loan Taken value, £ term monthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 29/04/2014 5,000 36 months 233.97 8,422.92
2 02/06/2015 7,000 48 months 284.32 13,647.36
Ms C initially complained to this service about loan 2 saying she had to borrow to repay the 
loan and was struggling so TFS was wrong to lend to her. She later confirmed she wanted 
loan 1 to also be considered.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said TFSs checks were
not proportionate, but even based on the information it had gathered she thought TFS hadnt 
made fair lending decisions as there was information in her credit checks to suggest the 
loans werent sustainably affordable for Ms C.
TFS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Ms C. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Ms C could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms C. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Ms C, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Cs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Ms C before it approved the loans. It asked for details
of her income, her monthly living costs and her existing credit commitments. It checked her
income using a third party income verification tool. It checked her credit file to understand 
her credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loans. 
For loan 1 this was for home improvements and for loan 2 this was to repay loan 1 and other 
debts under a debt management plan, and home improvements. From these checks 
combined TFS concluded on both occasions that Ms C would have sufficient monthly 
disposable income after taking on the loans (£744.49 at the time of loan 1 and £145.10 at 
the time of loan 2) for the loans to be affordable. 
I dont agree that these checks were proportionate for either loan given the term and value of 
the loan and what Ms Cs credit checks showed. I think TFS needed to do more than rely on 
Ms Cs declared monthly costs to understand her actual financial situation but I wont 
comment further on this as even given the information it had I dont TFS made fair lending 
decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Ms C was applying to borrow a significant amount of money from TFS. She was entering into 
a long-term commitment and would need to make monthly repayments for three years. In 
response to the investigators view TFS said even taking into account a discrepancy in the 
disposable income that the investigator had highlighted, Ms C had sufficient disposable income. And it confirmed it did not consider the housekeeping payment she received from 
her son. But these comments focus solely on the pounds and pence affordability of the loan 
and do not consider any potential adverse impact of making the repayments on Ms C - as 
the lender was obliged to. 
TFS did note that whilst there were signs Ms C may have struggled with her finances in the 
past this was no longer an ongoing issue. 
But I dont think this is a fair conclusion. I think there was evidence that Ms C was most likely 
still having problems managing her money. Ms Cs credit search showed she had two loans 
that she was now repaying through a debt management plan. She had an arrangement to 
pay in place on a credit card account that had defaulted, and she had defaulted on five other 
credit commitments in the previous two years. So I think TFS should have realised that this 
record of payment problems was a clear indication that Ms C had relatively recently faced 
some serious financial difficulty. 
And I cant see that based on this information it was fair for TFS to categorise her financial 
difficulties as resolved and to conclude that there was no risk Ms C would struggle to 
sustainably repay loan 1. It could see she was making very nominal repayments for two 
loans via the debt management plan, and from this ought to have realised she was unlikely 
to have the disposable income it calculated  and it was more likely her finances remained 
under pressure. So I think it was wrong to lend to Ms C based on the information it gathered.
Loan 2 
As well as asking for updated income and expenditure information, TFS carried out a new 
credit check. This showed since taking loan 1 two mail order accounts had been 
incorporated into the debt management plan in February 2015 and Ms C had defaulted on 
two more of her credit commitments. She had come back to TFS to apply for a larger sum 
over a longer term whilst loan 1 was still outstanding. In this context I dont agree it was right 
to conclude that loan 2 would be sustainably affordable either. 
It significantly increased her total indebtedness and TFS knew from its credit check that 
Ms C had already failed to meet her existing credit commitments after it gave her loan 1. I 
note Ms C was using some of the funds from loan 2 to repay all debts in the debt 
management plan but this does not change my conclusion about TFSs lending decision. As 
with loan 1 I think, on balance, there were indications that Ms Cs finances remained under 
pressure. And I cant see TFS got the reassurances it needed to conclude lending to Ms C 
would most likely cause her no adverse impact. It follows I think it was wrong to give loan 2 
to Ms C.
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Ms C to have repaid/repay the capital amount that she borrowed as she 
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms C received as a result of being given loans 1
and 2. The repayments Ms C made should be deducted from this amount.If this results in Ms C having effectively made payments above the original capital
borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen,
to the date of settlement*.
If this results in an outstanding capital balance TFS must try to agree an affordable
repayment plan with Ms C, remembering its obligation to treat her positively and
sympathetically as she is having financial difficulties.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Ms C a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Cs complaint. TFS Loans Limited must now put things right as set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman