DRN-3694601
The complaint
Mr D complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile) has unfairly asked
him to repay lending under an agreement he says he didnt enter into.
What happened
In September 2020 Virgin Mobile sent Mr D a mobile phone. Virgin Mobile had provided a
fixed sum loan in Mr Ds name to finance the cost.
Mr D told Virgin Mobile he hadnt asked for the device and suspected his details had been
used fraudulently. Mr D says later that day someone purporting to be a courier
attempted to collect the device but he didnt provide it, fearful that it was a scam.
Virgin Mobile sent Mr D a pre-paid jiffy bag to return the device which he said he
subsequently did. However, he was later asked by Virgin Mobile to make payments under
the agreement. Mr D says Virgin Mobile told him that it had received a package using the
pre-paid service it had provided, but it contained a box of coffee sachets rather than the
device, so hed need to repay the lending under the agreement.
Mr D maintained that he had returned the device, so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator said it wasnt clear whether Mr D had entered into the agreement or not.
But, they werent persuaded that Mr D had returned the device, in the most part because his
evidence of postage showed the weight of the parcel as 60g, which was likely too light to be
the device and consistent with the coffee sachets Virgin Mobile said it received. Our
investigator concluded that Virgin Mobile had acted fairly by asking Mr D to make
repayments under the agreement.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a decision on the case. It was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
Mr Ds complaint is about a whether or not Virgin Mobile is acting fairly in relation to a fixed
sum loan. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to
consider a complaint about. Mr D is eligible to bring this complaint because Virgin Mobile
has sought to recover payment from him in relation to the fixed sum loan.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The starting point on this case to determine whether Mr D actually entered into an
agreement with Virgin Mobile. If I find that he didnt, then Virgin Mobile ought not to pursue
him for any payments required under an agreement he wasnt party to.
From what Virgin Mobile has said  both in its contact notes as well as in its submissions to
this service  I think it accepts that Mr D was the victim of fraud and hadnt applied for any
lending with it. I think that Mr Ds actions in alerting Virgin Mobile to what had happened at
the first possible opportunity supports that.
Additionally, Ive seen from Virgin Mobiles records that there were further applications for
more goods on the same day that Mr D had reported the matter. It seems that those
attempts were ultimately blocked by Virgin Mobile, presumably because it had accepted
those applications had been made without Mr Ds authority. I think this further supports that
Mr D had been the victim of fraud.
I think its clear from everything thats been provided that Mr D, or someone acting on his
behalf, didnt enter into an agreement with Virgin Mobile. So, I find that Virgin Mobile is not
acting fairly by attempting to pursue Mr D for payments under an agreement he wasnt party
to. Im provisionally finding that Virgin Mobile ought to remove Mr Ds liability from the
agreement as well as any information relating to the agreement it may have recorded with
credit reference agencies.
This service is limited to determining whether Virgin Mobile is acting fairly in relation to the
regulated loan pertaining to this complaint. So, whether or not Virgin Mobile actually received
the device back isnt something itd be appropriate for me to comment on  because its not
about Virgin exercising rights under the fixed sum loan. Its for Virgin Mobile to decide
whether to take any further action in relation to the matter outside of the agreement.
My provisional decision was that I intended to require Virgin Mobile to;
- Remove Mr Ds liability from the fixed sum loan it gave in his name and cease pursuit
of any sums owed in relation to it from Mr D; and
- Remove any information it recorded in relation to the agreement with credit reference
agencies.
Both Virgin Mobile and Mr D responded. Virgin Mobile agreed with the provisional decision 
and said it had nothing further to add. Mr D also agreed.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision and neither has provided any further 
evidence to be considered. As a result, I find no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision and I therefore now make it final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited to;
- Remove Mr Ds liability from the fixed sum loan it gave in his name and cease pursuit
of any sums owed in relation to it from Mr D; and- Remove any information it recorded in relation to the agreement with credit reference
agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman