DRN-3794022
The complaint
Mr C complains about a Cash Bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) he invested 
into. He says the bond was mis-sold to him by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium).
Mr C says he has lost all of his money as a result of poor performance of the investment. He 
says he was persuaded to invest into the bond through misleading information, in particular 
that it had Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr C invested in a B&G Plc Cash Bond in October 2017. Sales of this bond were dealt with 
by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. It was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. Mr C invested further in other B&G Plc bonds after this date, which are 
not the subject of this complaint.
Mr Cs investment in the bond
Mr C visited BG Ltds website in October 2017 after seeing an advert online. He says he was 
looking for interest for his savings after inheriting the money in the same calendar year.
Mr C says at the time of application he was working as an engineer and was due to retire a 
few years later. He says he had no previous investment experience other than money 
invested in his pension. The amount he invested in the B&G Plc bond was around 50% of 
his available savings.
Mr C says he completed an online application form and applied to invest £250,000 in the 
bond. The bond Mr C invested in offered an interest rate 3.14% per year, with the invested 
capital to be returned on maturity. The relevant terms and conditions confirm the bond 
requires thirty days notice to surrender and pays interest twice year. The term was open 
ended and pays 15.7% interest as a lifetime return of the bond.
When Mr C referred his complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings between Mr C and BG Ltd, but I 
note none took place prior to Mr Cs application. As such, Ive only referred to some of them 
in my decision.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr C 
says he has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr C says he carried out the application online. Ive seen confirmation that BG Ltd received 
and accepted Mr Cs application form on 10 October 2017.
Following the online application, in a call between Mr C and BG Ltd on 10 October 2017, he 
confirmed to them he selected the Cash Bond as he didnt want to fix it for long.
Having reviewed the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr C completed an online 
application. While he does appear to have had some telephone contact with BG Ltd, from 
what Ive seen this was after he applied online. So, Ive focused on the online application 
process in reaching my decision.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr C underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr C 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mr Cs complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said Mr C had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Cs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr C as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr C wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr C to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
C for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Cs complaint.Regardless of label, Mr C was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr C giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr C made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and he 
didnt choose to surrender it when receiving an email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf 
of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr C into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr C fairly or acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr C, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr C. In the circumstances Mr C would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr C.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr C would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. So, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr 
C for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Mr C has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment, which was almost half of his inheritance. Given his 
circumstances, this is money Mr C cannot afford to lose, nor is it money he is able to 
replace. I do not believe Mr C foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the 
considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of 
£350 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
B&G Plc  
BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate   
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr C would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited pays Mr C the balance plus any 
interest on that amount as set out above.This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Gallium 
Fund Solutions Limited. It is unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
If Gallium Fund Solutions Limited does not pay the full fair compensation, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited may request an undertaking from Mr C that either he repays 
to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited any amount Mr C may receive from the portfolio thereafter 
or if possible, transfers the portfolio at that point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman