DRN-4068408
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt do enough to protect him from 
the financial harm caused by an investment scam, or to help recover the money once the 
scam was reported.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
This complaint has been brought by the estate of the late Mr D. On 31 October 2017, Mr D 
made a payment of £10,000 to a company Ill refer to as B. And on 27 April 2018, he made 
a further payment of £20,000 to a company Ill refer to as D. 
Unfortunately, Mr D passed away 6 April 2019, and, sometime later, a family member was 
contacted by the police to advise that both B and D were involved in an investment fraud.
The estate of Mr D complained to HSBC arguing it could have done more to prevent the 
loss. The estate of Mr D explained that neither company had appeared in Mr Ds bank 
statements before the two transactions and that HSBC had failed to contact him to verify the 
payments. They told HSBC they didnt accept Mr D had willingly made large and risky 
investments at that time of his life. 
The estate of Mr D also said HSBC should have had measures in place to detect suspicious 
transactions or activities and that if it had fulfilled its obligations, the payments would have 
triggered an intervention. Instead, they argued, HSBC made no attempt to intervene to query 
the payments and this failure to intervene led to Mr Ds loss. 
HSBC said that both payments pre-dated the launch of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM). It said it could contact the receiving banks to see if there were any funds 
remaining, but that would be unlikely. It explained that any payment can be held for 
additional security checks. It explained that its system cleared the first payment and that the 
second payment was held for additional security checks, after which it was allowed.
The estate of Mr D wasnt satisfied and so they complained to this service maintaining HSBC 
had failed to intervene to prevent the loss.
HSBC produced copies of the call it had made to Mr D when he tried to make the second 
payment. During the call, Mr D was asked if hed authorised the payment of £20,000, which 
he confirmed he had. It said Mr D had made the payments himself, using his secure online 
banking details and, when the second payment was flagged for a security check, he had 
verbally confirmed that the payment was genuine. It also argued Mr D held various 
investments with HSBC and was not a novice investor.
Our investigator was satisfied the companies Mr D had paid were operating a scam. And he 
accepted Mr D had authorised the payments because they were made using the legitimate 
security credentials provided to him by HSBC. However, he thought the transactions were 
suitably unusual and ought to have triggered an intervention. 
He noted the payment of £20,000 had triggered HSBCs internal systems, but the adviser 
had simply asked Mr D to confirm the payment was genuine. He considered what would 
have happened if Mr D a received a scam warning during the call, concluding it wouldnt 
have made a difference to his decision to go ahead with the payment. He explained this was 
because HSBC couldnt have known the company was operating a scam because there 
were no warnings on the FCA website or information online showing the it wasnt genuine. 
He also noted Mr D had several investments which either provided regular income or one 
off income such as bonds, suggesting he knew more than an amateur investor. 
He thought that if HSBC had provided a scam warning, although Mr D may have taken on 
board what he was told, in the absence of an FCA warning, he would likely have gone ahead 
with the payments. So, he didnt think HSBCs failure to provide a warning had contributed to 
Mr Ds loss. 
The estate of Mr D wasnt satisfied and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. They argued that Mr D had been in his 80s when he made the payments, and 
he was very frail as a result of chronic kidney disease, heart disease, high blood pressure 
and depression, so HSBC should have done more to question her brother because he was 
vulnerable.
The estate of Mr D has said that that even though Mr D did hold shares, he didnt actively 
trade, instead relying on the dividends for income. She accepts he did have some 
knowledge of investing, but he wasnt an expert in investing and wouldnt have been able to 
spot a sophisticated scam. They also believe he would have acted on advice from HSBC as 
he was a loyal customer and would not have taken risks with his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear Mr D was the victim of a cruel scam. I know the estate of Mr 
D feel strongly about this complaint, so Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr D fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. HSBC said the CRM code didnt apply in this case because the 
disputed transactions took place before the code came into force, and Im satisfied thats fair 
and applies to both payments. 
Im satisfied Mr D authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr D was presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the companies Mr D paid 
were operating a scam. But, although he didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. HSBC had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were 
part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr D 
when he tried to make the payments.  
The first payment didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems, but the second one did, 
leading to a call during which Mr D confirmed the payment was genuine. Ive considered the 
nature of both payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of 
how Mr D normally ran his account and I think they were. This is because of the high amount 
and the fact that Mr D had never paid either company before. Because of this, I think these 
payments should have triggered a call from HSBC.
During this call I would expect HSBC to have questioned Mr D, in response to which I think 
its likely hed have been open about the nature of the investment and how it came about. I 
would then expect HSBC to have warned Mr D about the risks associated with investing and 
to discuss with him the nature of the checks hed undertaken and to potentially give some 
advice on additional due diligence.
However, there were no warnings about either company on the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) or International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites which 
could have alerted Mr D to the fact this was a scam. And while I accept the points the estate 
of Mr D has made about the fact Mr D would not have taken risks with his money, I think that 
in the absence of warnings or other adverse information or reviews about B and D in the 
public domain, he would most likely have gone ahead with both payments. Consequently, 
Im not satisfied that HSBCs failure to intervene represented a missed opportunity to prevent 
the loss.
Im sorry to hear Mr D lost money, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC is to 
blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman