DRN-3240418
The complaint
Mr K complains HSBC Bank UK Plc did not follow the correct process to help him get back a 
payment hed made in error from his current account.
 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr K made a payment of about £10,000 from his current account using the 
HSBC app. He accidentally selected the wrong recipient from the list, and so contacted 
HSBC the same day to ask for help getting the money back. 
Mr K still hadnt received his money back by mid-March so spoke to HSBC a number of 
times to find out what was happening. At the end of March, HSBC told Mr K theyd only been 
able to recover £100  significantly less than the amount Mr K had originally sent. 
Mr K wasnt happy with how HSBC had handled things, so he complained. HSBC responded 
to say they had done what they could to recover Mr Ks money, but this was never 
guaranteed and they offered Mr K a total of £150 in recognition of the fact theyd not kept 
him updated about what was happening. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator recommended Mr Ks complaint 
was upheld. She said, in summary, HSBC had not followed the correct process when Mr K 
had raised the payment with them and had taken too long to contact the third partys bank. 
She said if HSBC had acted more quickly, they wouldve been able to recover a further £284 
from the third partys account before it was removed. So she thought HSBC should pay Mr K 
the £284 and a further £100, in addition to the £150 theyd already offered, in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K as a result of their poor handling of the 
matter. 
HSBC accepted the Investigators recommendations. Mr K did not. He said he felt because 
HSBC had assured him he would get his money back, they should pay him the full amount. 
After this we contacted both parties to let them know thered been an error in the 
Investigators view. She shouldve recommended HSBC pay Mr K £384.51, not £284  as 
well as the further £100 for the distress and inconvenience. Mr K still didnt think this was 
enough. HSBC agreed to the amended amount. 
As Mr K didnt agree the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, once a payment has been made it cant be recalled. But, where a payment has 
been made in error, wed expect a financial business to take reasonable steps to attempt to 
recover the funds. 
Mr K first contacted HSBC on 22 January. Ive listened to the call he had with them that day. 
HSBC correctly advised Mr K that the process for recovering a payment that had been sent 
in error could take up to 20 working days and that there was no guarantee the payment 
would all be recovered. But they also told Mr K, in the same call, that if the beneficiary wasnt 
entitled to the money, they would have to give it back or the bank would. So  although 
some of the information HSBC gave Mr K was correct in this call, I think they also gave him 
mis-leading information in this call. 
HSBC should have contacted the other bank promptly, usually within two working days, of 
Mr K notifying them about the payment. HSBC did not contact the third partys bank until 3 
February and  even though they contacted them that day  they used the wrong email 
address to do so. They contacted the other bank using the correct address on 8 March. So 
Im satisfied HSBC did not act promptly enough to help Mr K recover the funds. 
Weve received evidence to show the activity on the other account. By the time HSBC got in 
contact with the other bank, all but £100 of the money had been removed from the account  
so HSBC could only return £100 to Mr K. But had HSBC acted when they shouldve done  
there wouldve been a further £384.51 available to be returned to Mr K. So I find HSBC 
should pay this amount to Mr K now. 
Mr K thinks HSBC should be required to honour the information they gave him during the 
first phone call in January 2022  that either the beneficiary returns the money or they would. 
He thinks they should pay him the full amount of the payment he sent. But I dont agree 
theres an obligation for HSBC to do that or that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I say this because if HSBC had not given Mr K the wrong information, I dont think his 
circumstances would have been significantly changed. He would be in the same position 
hes in now  with only £484.51 available to be returned to him. But Mr K has been caused 
worry and inconvenience by being giving the wrong information and the delays in HSBC 
taking action.
HSBC offered Mr K a total of £150 in recognition of their delays in handling things, the 
conflicting information and not keeping Mr K updated. Our Investigator recommended that 
this should be increased by a further £100. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint because he was given misleading information when he 
first contacted HSBC and they didnt act promptly enough. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
To put things right, I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
Pay Mr K the additional £384.51 that couldve been recovered had HSBC acted 
sooner. 
Pay Mr K a total of £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. HSBC may take off any compensation amounts already paid 
to Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman