DRN-2102326
The complaint
Mr C complains his policy with ReAssure Limited was mis-sold to him. And he says the 
policy wasnt cancelled when he requested this.
Mr Cs policy was originally with another provider, however the business has since 
transferred to ReAssure Limited. So for ease, all of my mentions of the provider will refer to 
ReAssure only. 
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage payment insurance (MPI) policy with ReAssure in 2007. At the 
time of receiving the quote for this policy, ReAssure also provided Mr C with quotes for two 
other types of policies, one of which Mr C declined.
In the event of Mr C being unable to work due to illness or injury, the MPI policy would pay
his mortgage payments after a 13 week deferred period.
In March 2019, Mr C complained. He said hed reviewed his policies and thought the MPI 
policy had been mis-sold. He said the policy was unsuitable for him and the adviser had
led him to believe taking it was compulsory. He asked for a refund of all of the policy
premiums plus interest.
ReAssure responded to Mr Cs complaint in May 2019. In summary it said:
Mr Cs MPI policy was not payment protection insurance (PPI);
it thought the policy was suitable for Mr C;
a fact find was completed about Mr Cs circumstances and needs;
the MPI policy was recommended, but itd found no evidence that Mr C was told he
had to take it;
Mr C wasnt provided with any advice about his mortgage package and it said any
insurance required alongside a mortgage would have been confirmed in Mr Cs
mortgage offer; and
Mr C was able to cancel the policy at any time.
Unhappy with the response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. And in doing so
he also complained that ReAssure was still taking a monthly premium from his account by 
direct debit, despite his request to cancel.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the policy mis-sold?
ReAssure gave Mr C advice about the suitability of an MPI policy. And the relevant rules and
industry guidance say it had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was right for him.
Having reviewed the documentation available from the time of the sale, I didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold to Mr C. And I said that for the following reasons.
The application form completed at the point of the fact find meeting showed a 13 
week deferred period had been selected, and this form was signed by Mr C. The 13 
week deferred period was made clear in the documentation, so I was satisfied Mr C 
was made aware of this and had opportunity to query it if he thought it was incorrect 
at the time.
Mr C said he had a six month sickness benefit in place with his employer at the time 
he took the policy. This seems at odds with the 13 week deferred period. However, 
Mr C has said he was half way through a probationary period at the time of taking the 
policy. So I thought it most likely he may not have been entitled to the full six month 
benefit with his employer at the time. And because of this, I didnt think the 13 week 
deferred period was an unreasonable recommendation.
Id seen nothing which led me to believe ReAssure told Mr C it was compulsory for 
him to take out the MPI policy. And the terms of the policy show Mr C was able to 
cancel at any time. Mr Cs mortgage was with a different provider, and I would expect 
that any compulsory requirements for insurance would have been explained to him 
by that provider.
Mr C was provided with a quote for two other policies by ReAssure at the same time 
as this one, and he declined one of these. So I thought it most likely that Mr C was 
aware of his options, and what he needed to do, if he didnt want to go ahead with 
any of the policies.
Mr Cs increased employer sickness benefits
Mr C has said that when he took out the policy, he was on a probationary period at a new
job. And once he passed his probationary period, his sickness benefits increased, so the
13 week deferred period was unsuitable.
Id seen no evidence that Mr C contacted ReAssure about the deferred period of his policy at 
the time his benefits increased. And hes said that due to the time thats passed, he cant 
now provide any proof of when his sickness benefits at work increased, and by how much.
Mr Cs policy isnt one which is reviewed periodically for suitability, and the terms dont allow
for mid-term adjustments. So if Mr Cs sickness benefits increased, and he thought the
13 week deferred period of his policy was no longer suitable, he would have needed to
contact ReAssure about this. Had he done this, he could have cancelled the existing policy. 
And, if he wanted, he could have taken out a different policy with a longer deferred period, 
either with the same or another provider.
However, as Mr C didnt let ReAssure know his circumstances had changed, or that the 
policy was no longer suitable for him, prior to him raising his complaint, I didnt think 
ReAssure did anything wrong in allowing the policy to continue with the original deferred 
period.
Cancellation of the policyThe terms of Mr Cs policy say it can be cancelled in writing. When Mr C made his complaint, 
this was done in writing, and within that complaint Mr C said he was requesting:
You reimburse all premiums paid on the policy and any interest. You pay 8% on the monthly
premium amounts for the appropriate period of time you have deprived us of these
payments. And I thought it fair to say that this request for a refund of all of the premiums
made it clear Mr C wanted to cancel his policy.
There was a delay of around 12 months between the first time Mr C requested a refund of all
of his premiums, and the date the policy was cancelled by ReAssure.
ReAssure has said it thought Mr C may only have wanted to cancel because he thought his 
policy was PPI, which it isnt. And its said that it thought Mr C may have been happy to 
continue with the policy once he was informed it wasnt PPI.
I said I understood the point ReAssure had made, but I didnt think it was fair for it to make 
this assumption without asking Mr C to clarify whether or not he wanted to cancel. ReAssure 
sent an acknowledgement to Mr C after it received his complaint, and asked him to provide 
details of his employer benefits from the time of the sale. So I think ReAssure could also 
have asked in that communication, whether or not Mr C wanted to cancel the policy at that 
time, or if he wanted to wait for the outcome of his complaint.
In its final response to Mr Cs complaint, ReAssure provided contact details and invited Mr C 
to get in touch with any questions. But the letter made no reference to whether or not Mr C
wanted to cancel or continue with the policy, and it provided no information about what to do
if he did still want to cancel. And I thought in view of Mr Cs request for a refund of all 
premiums in his complaint, ReAssure should have been clearer about this.
Because of the delay in cancelling the policy, I thought ReAssure should refund all of the 
premiums collected after 22 March 2019. And as Mr C has been without the benefit of that 
money, it should also pay interest at 8% simple from the date each payment was collected to 
the date Mr C receives the refund.
I said I accepted the delay in cancelling Mr Cs policy had caused him some inconvenience.
However, Id seen no evidence that he was regularly or repeatedly contacting ReAssure 
about cancellation and a refund during the time since he first asked for a refund of his 
premiums. So this led me to think that the delay wasnt causing Mr C more than a moderate 
amount of inconvenience. Because of this I thought £100 was sufficient to recognise the 
inconvenience caused.
The response to my provisional decision 
Mr C responded and asked if all of the evidence hed sent had been reviewed. And he said 
hed sent multiple emails to this service asking for the policy to be cancelled. 
ReAssure responded to my provisional decision and in summary it said: 
Mr C only asked for a refund of premiums in March 2019 because he thought the policy 
was PPI;
Mr C didnt ask ReAssure to cancel his policy following the final response letter;
it had no obligation to ask Mr C if he wished to cancel; and
there were no clear instructions to cancel the policy and no follow up from Mr C after the 
final response was issued.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses.
Mr C sent copies of payslips from 2013 and other documentation in support of the increase 
in his sickness benefits via his employer. I had reviewed these, however I didnt think they 
made a difference, as Id said Mr Cs policy was one which didnt allow for mid-term 
adjustments. If Mr C thought the deferred period of the policy was no longer suitable, he 
would have needed to contact ReAssure about this, and could have cancelled his policy.
Mr C also said hed sent emails to this service asking for his policy to be cancelled. Mr C 
brought his complaint to us in July 2019, and said at that time payments were still being 
taken for the policy, despite him having informed ReAssure that it was unsuitable. So 
although Mr C didnt correspond directly with ReAssure again about the cancellation of his 
policy, I accept he raised this issue via our service. This information was passed on to 
ReAssure, and it began sending the evidence we had requested in October. So Im 
persuaded by what Mr C has said, that ReAssure was aware he was still unhappy with the 
policy and wanted a refund of his premiums, in October 2019, if not before.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the chasers he sent about his complaint via this 
service. However Im still of the opinion that £100 sufficiently recognises the inconvenience 
the delay in ReAssure cancelling his policy caused him.
Having considered what ReAssure has said, I still think it shouldnt have made an 
assumption that Mr C only wanted to cancel his policy because he thought it was PPI. And 
Ive thought about the point its raised around the insurer not having an obligation to ask the 
policyholder if they want to cancel. However, in the circumstances of this case, where Mr C 
had asked for a refund of all premiums, I dont think its unreasonable to expect that 
ReAssure should have made an effort to clarify his intentions. It didnt ask Mr C if he still 
wanted to cancel the policy in its final response, and it didnt give him information about what 
he should do if he did still want to cancel. And I dont think that was fair. 
I accept Mr C didnt contact ReAssure again about cancelling his policy after the final 
response. However, as Ive said, Mr C contacted this service and complained that premiums 
were still being collected for the policy, and this information was passed on to ReAssure. So 
I think this was a clear indication to ReAssure that Mr C was still unhappy with his policy 
following its final response, and still wanted to cancel. If this wasnt sufficient notice of 
cancellation, ReAssure could have contacted Mr C and informed him of the process he 
needed to follow to cancel. But it didnt do this, and the policy wasnt cancelled until several 
months later, after this service raised the issue of cancellation on Mr Cs behalf. And I still 
think this caused an unfair delay for Mr C. 
 
Having considered the points Mr C and ReAssure have made, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct 
ReAssure Limited to do the following:
backdate the cancellation of the policy to 22 March 2019;
refund all of the premiums paid after this date, with interest at 8% simple from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement; and
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman