DRN-3622376
The complaint
Mr M complains he was given unsuitable advice by Base Financial Limited (BFL) to switch 
his personal pension to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) with a new provider and 
invest via a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). 
At the time BFL was an appointed representative of The Tavistock Partnership Limited 
(TTP). TTP is responsible for the advice BFL gave. For ease Ive just referred below to TTP 
which should be taken, where appropriate, to include BFL. 
What happened
Mr M had a personal pension with a fund value of £35,984. The fund was invested in the 
providers with profits (6%) and stock exchange (94%) funds. The charges were an assumed 
annual charge of 0.659% and a management charge of 0.75% and 0.15% respectively.
Ive seen various documents, including a fact find completed in April 2016 setting out Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. His attitude to risk (ATR) had been assessed as moderate 
(six out of ten). The suitability report dated 20 April 2016 recommended that Mr M switch to a 
SIPP (administered by Gaudi Regulated Services Limited) and invest via Beaufort Securities 
Limited (BSL), a DFM, in its Total Return Medium High Risk Portfolio. The fees would be an 
initial advice charge of 2% of the switch value. There was an annual ongoing advice charge 
of 1%, an annual management charge of 0.18%, a set up charge of £75 plus VAT and an 
annual SIPP charge of £165 plus VAT. 
Mr M accepted the recommendation. He made two contributions each of £10,000 in July and 
August 2016. He also made regular monthly contributions of £100 between July 2016 and 
January 2017.  
In January 2017 TTP contacted Mr M saying that BSL was withdrawing its DFM service and 
a new manager would need to be found. BSL was no longer able to accept any new money. 
This was due to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), identifying some 
concerns regarding systems and controls within BSLs DFM business. BSL agreed to work 
with the FCA and in the best interests of customers it was decided BSLs DFM business 
would cease. 
Mr M met with TTP about moving the funds held with BSL. A suitability report was issued on 
24 February 2017. In March 2017 TTP instructed BSL to encash as much of Mr Ms portfolio 
as possible. In June 2017 cash was paid into Mr Ms SIPP. At the beginning of July 2017 the 
provider confirmed the SIPP held £32,588.61 in illiquid assets. Mr M opened a new SIPP in 
September 2017 with a different provider into which £20,111.16 was transferred.  
BSL was placed into administration in March 2018. Mr M made a claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme. It rejected his claim and said he needed to complain to 
TTP as it had given advice to invest via the DFM.
Mr M complained to TTP but it didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things, TTP 
maintained the portfolio was suitable for Mr M. His capacity for loss had been discussed. 
Although it was his only pension provision he was planning to sell his business for a 
substantial amount. The recommended portfolio had a risk rating of between 6 and 7 which 
matched Mr Ms ATR. The investments were made by BSL as the DFM and the choice of 
funds in the portfolio was the DFMs responsibility and not TTPs.
Mr M referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
He wasnt convinced that switching to the SIPP was necessary as Mr Ms existing personal 
pension permitted employee and employer contributions. And, although Mr M wanted 
flexibility at retirement, he was only 42 at the time of the advice and he didnt plan on retiring 
for another 13 years at least. Mr M couldve switched funds if those he was invested in didnt 
match his ATR. But Mr M wasnt complaining about the SIPP, just the investments made via 
the DFM. The investigators view was that Mr M wanted the wider range of funds permitted 
by a SIPP and so hed have switched to a SIPP anyway. 
The investigator said the switch had been recommended to facilitate investment via the 
DFM. The investigator didnt think investing via a DFM was suitable. Mr M was a moderate 
risk investor with little previous investment experience. 
The investigator didnt agree the selected portfolio matched Mr Ms medium ATR. The 
suitability report said: To help reduce the overall risk to your portfolio I am recommending 
the Medium High risk portfolio as it has increased fixed interest exposure and reduced 
equity exposure giving more stability approaching Brexit. The fund fact sheet showed the 
fund could hold up to 70% equities and only 40% in fixed income. There was no breakdown 
of the largest holdings so TTP couldnt be sure it aligned with the degree of risk Mr M was 
prepared to take, particularly as the DFM had what was described as an unconstrained 
approach.
The investigator noted that one of the fund aims was to invest in high yielding corporate 
debt. The investigator said there was a difference between high yielding (non-investment 
grade) debt and investment grade debt  the former has high yields in direct relation to the 
higher risk of default and therefore loss of an investors capital. There was a target allocation 
of up to 40% in fixed income which couldve been all non-investment grade debt. That meant 
a significant proportion was invested in high yield (and therefore high risk) debt which wasnt 
consistent with a medium risk approach. 
The investigator also said that the charges for the new arrangement were considerably 
higher and so that was another reason for not recommending the DFM and model portfolio. 
TTP had said in the pension replacement plan switch report: Based on funds past record it 
is unlikely the optimum growth within the risk profile will be achieved be retaining the existing
plans. And answered in the affirmative when asked if it was anticipated fund performance 
would be better. But TTPs own research showed the annualised performance of Mr Ms 
existing stock exchange fund over the last three years was 8.26% and 6.16% over 5 years. 
The with profits fund had a 4% pa guaranteed return. The fact sheet for the recommended 
model portfolio said the expected average returns were 5.32%. So there was no evidence 
that the new arrangement would optimise any return over and above Mr Ms existing plan. 
In conclusion the investigator said hed not seen anything to show Mr M needed or wanted a 
DFM. He was a retail investor with limited experience. BSL was an unsuitable investment 
manager at the outset and its portfolio was unsuitable. The investigator set out how TTP 
should calculate and pay compensation to Mr M. 
TTP said it wanted to comment in response to the investigators view. We gave TTP further 
time in which to do so. But, although weve been in contact with TTP several times since, including informing TTP that the complaint was being referred to an ombudsman to decide, 
we havent received any further comments from TTP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M isnt complaining that a SIPP shouldnt have been recommended. His complaint just 
relates to the advice to invest with the DFM. I agree with the investigator that Mr M was likely 
to have switched his personal pension to a SIPP anyway. And I note hes since switched to 
another SIPP which would also indicate that he did want that type of pension vehicle. So all 
Im looking at is the recommendation to invest Mr Ms pension fund via the DFM in its Total 
Return Medium High Risk Portfolio. 
Ive considered first if using a DFM was suitable. Ive considered the then regulators 
finalised guidance: Assessing suitability: Replacement business and centralised investment 
propositions (July 2012). In deciding whether to use a DFM the following factors are likely to 
feature: the likely cost; the size of the funds under management; the investors knowledge 
and experience; and if the benefits and the costs were properly explained and understood by 
the investor. 
I dont think Mr M, taking into account that his fund size was modest, had any need for a 
DFM and the extra layer of charges that would impose. Mr M was an ordinary retail client. 
He wasnt an experienced investor and, even if he thought he might want to be able to 
access at some stage the wider range of investments that a SIPP offered, that didnt mean 
he needed a DFM. 
Mr Ms objectives in switching were to review his existing pension plan with a view to 
improving on it; open a new pension for lump sum and monthly company contributions; and 
improve on current returns. As noted above, Mr Ms existing pension plan was able to accept 
employee and employer contributions. And that objective was unrelated to having a DFM. 
I dont see that the new arrangement was likely to produce better returns. It was higher 
charging and so the extra fees would have to be covered to produce a net higher return. 
And, as the investigator pointed out, it seems that TTPs own research indicated that Mr Ms 
existing funds were doing well. The expected average returns from the recommended DFM 
portfolio were 5.32%. So it was unclear that Mr Ms objective of better returns would be met. 
In my view, the extra costs of using a DFM werent justified by the potential for improved 
performance. 
If I thought using a DFM might be suitable then Id go on to consider other issues, such as if 
the particular DFM selected was suitable, what instructions were given to the DFM and if the 
asset selection (the portfolio) was consistent with the mandate, including the investors ATR. 
Because I dont think Mr M shouldve been recommended to use a DFM, the suitability or 
otherwise of the DFM selected and any other issues largely fall away. But Id note that there 
were some question marks over the particular DFM. It had been fined twice by the FCA, in 
2003 and 2006, for various breaches of the FCAs Principles for Businesses. 
I also note the investigators concerns about the makeup of the selected portfolio and 
whether it could properly be regarded as suitable for investor with a moderate ATR. I agree 
that the inclusion of high yield/high risk debt is likely to have increased the level of risk the 
portfolio represented. The portfolio may have been higher risk than Mr Ms moderate ATR shouldve dictated. TTP was also aware that BSLs model portfolios didnt have a lengthy 
track record.
TTP has said that BSL invested in illiquid funds which was outside the mandate that TTP 
had given. But the point is that I dont think a DFM was suitable in the first place. So, and 
regardless of whether the DFM didnt invest as TTP had been led to believe, Mr M shouldnt 
have had a DFM. He was only invested with the DFM because TTP had advised him to do 
that. I cant see hed have invested with the DFM otherwise. 
The recommendation to use a DFM wasnt suitable for Mr M. TTP is responsible for the 
losses Mr M has incurred in consequence of being invested with the DFM. I agree with the 
what the investigator said as to how TTP should put things right for Mr M. Ive set the 
redress out again here. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr M would 
have invested differently. I cant say precisely what hed have done instead, but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr M's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr M fairly The Tavistock Partnership Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest. 
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If The Tavistock Partnership Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
Its reasonable to assume Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M wouldve been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, The Tavistock Partnership Limited must pay Mr M £300 for the distress 
caused by the worry in fearing hed lost his pension fund or a large proportion of it. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If The Tavistock Partnership Limited 
considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off and give him a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on the interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Beaufort 
Securities 
Limited Total 
Return 
Medium High 
Risk PortfolioNo longer in 
force FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held 
and then any 
loss carried 
forward 
against the 
same 
benchmark 
to the date of 
settlementN/A
actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So the actual value
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The Tavistock Partnership 
Limited should take ownership of the illiquid portfolio by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount paid should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If The Tavistock Partnership Limited is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. The Tavistock Partnership 
Limited may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to pay to The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited any amount he may receive from the portfolio in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. The Tavistock Partnership Limited will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The Beaufort SIPP administered by Gaudi Regulated Services Limited only exists because 
there are illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further fees that are charged 
to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might 
be achieved by The Tavistock Partnership Limited taking over the portfolio, or this is 
something that Mr M can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If 
The Tavistock Partnership Limited is unable to purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that The Tavistock Partnership Limited pays Mr M an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee charged in the 
previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for 
the Beaufort SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. The Tavistock Partnership Limited must redress Mr M as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman