DRN-3226732
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Miss H in January 
2021. Miss Hs loan was for £520 and it was to be repaid in six monthly instalments with the 
highest being £165.77. From what I can see, Miss H struggled to repay her loan and an 
amount remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Miss H 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Lending Stream asked Miss H for information about her monthly income and outgoings and 
it carried out credit checks. Miss H said her monthly income was £1,300 and her outgoings 
totalled £651. From what I can see, Lending Streams credit checks didnt find anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. So the loan repayments looked 
affordable and sustainable for Miss H. 
Miss H said she had taken out two large loans the previous month and a check on her bank 
account would have shown that she wasnt in a position to repay her loan to Lending 
Stream. 
I accept that Miss Hs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Miss Hs actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss H, I dont think 
it had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for 
Miss H. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Miss Hs actual 
financial position. 
Lending Stream relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Miss Hs declared income and Miss H only taking one 
loan, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Hs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman