DRN-1056837
 
The complaint
Ms C complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. Reference to Advantage includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In July 2019, Ms C was involved in an accident whilst driving. I understand that Ms C wasn't 
able to stop and the front of her car collided with the rear of another driver's car. Ms C made 
a claim on her policy.
Advantage instructed an engineer to inspect Ms C's car. It subsequently said that Ms C's car 
was a total loss. Ms C didn't accept that and wanted repairs to be carried out by a garage of 
her choice. Advantage agreed but said that, in those circumstances, Ms C would have to pay 
double the excess due under the policy. 
Advantage mistakenly moved Ms C's car to a storage yard, rather than her chosen garage 
and the car incurred further damage. It was subsequently moved to Ms C's chosen garage 
for repair. 
In response to Ms C's complaint, Advantage offered to waive the additional excess due 
under the policy, cover the cost of any additional damage and paid compensation of £200 in 
relation to poor service. It also offered to reimburse Ms C's phone costs on production of an 
itemised bill. 
Ms C said that Advantage's offer wasn't sufficient. She said that it had deducted money from 
its offer to take into account compensation it had already paid in relation to this matter. Ms C 
said that she'd suffered significant stress throughout the claims process. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that the steps Advantage 
had taken to put matters right were fair. 
Ms C didn't agree with the investigator. She said that Advantage exaggerated the necessary 
repairs, which meant she had to find her own garage. Ms C says that she was greatly 
inconvenienced by the poor service she received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's clear that Ms C's claim didn't go as smoothly as we'd expect. But I think that the steps 
Advantage has taken to put matters right are fair. I'll explain why.
I've considered the description of the accident and looked at the photographs of Ms C's 
damaged car which were taken soon after the accident. It's clear that Ms C's car suffered 
moderate damage to its front bumper, grille, headlamps, bonnet and wings. I've also looked at Advantage's engineers' report. It addresses the areas that require repair. I don't think that 
Advantage acted unfairly in relying on that report and deciding that Ms C's car was a total 
loss. 
In any event, Advantage agreed that Ms C's car could be repaired at her chosen garage. In 
those circumstances, it was entitled to ask Ms C to pay double the excess due under her 
policy, so £1,490 rather than £745. That was part of the terms and conditions of Ms C's 
policy and was drawn to her attention in the summary of cover. But Advantage has agreed to 
waive the additional excess, which I think is fair. 
It's most unfortunate that Ms C's car suffered some further damage when it was mistakenly 
taken to a storage yard, rather than her garage. Advantage has offered to cover the cost of 
any additional damage. Again, I think that's fair.
Considering everything, I think total compensation of £200 in relation to Ms C's distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable. In reaching that view, I've taken into account the nature, extent 
and duration of Ms C's distress and inconvenience caused by Advantage's errors.  
My final decision
I'm sorry to disappoint Ms C but for the reasons I've set out above, I don't intend to direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more, as I think that the steps it's already 
taken to put matters right are fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman