DRN-3638534
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to release a legal charge on his 
property and although it has accepted it made a mistake, the compensation it offered for the 
stress and worry he experienced, isnt sufficient.
What happened
Mr S says in June 2021, while he was going through his papers at a time he was looking to 
re-mortgage one of his other properties, he noticed a deed to another property he owned 
showed a legal charge was still outstanding on it. Mr S says this was despite the fact he had 
repaid this debt back in 1998. Mr S says he contacted his solicitor and they wrote to 
Barclays, but Barclays didnt respond or remove the legal charge until October 2021. Mr S 
says he is suffering from a serious illness and the stress caused over this time by Barclays 
mistake, has worsened his condition. 
Mr S says although Barclays eventually accepted it made a mistake and agreed to pay the 
legal fees he incurred over this matter, its offer of £200 for the mistake it made doesnt go far 
enough. Mr S is looking for Barclays to compensate him £1,000 for every year the legal 
charge remained in place after he repaid the mortgage. 
Barclays says it has apologised to Mr S and agreed the charge should have been released 
on redemption of the mortgage and offered to pay for Mr Ss legal fees and £200 in 
compensation which it felt was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and didnt feel Barclays needed to 
take any further action other than what it had offered Mr S. The investigator says Barclays 
have made the point, when the mortgage was repaid in 1999, at that time it was unclear if a 
formal request to remove the charge was received by Mr Ss solicitor as it has no record of 
the transaction at that time. That said, the investigator says Barclays have accepted the 
mistake and offered to pay Mr Ss legal fees and £200 for the trouble and upset caused.  
The investigator says the issue only came to light in June 2021 and was rectified by Barclays 
within a reasonable length of time, and any compensation should reflect this period of time, 
and so the compensation offered by Barclays, was in the investigators view, reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
Mr S has explained that he has a serious illness, which I was sorry to hear and I understand 
it must be a difficult time for him. 
When looking at this complaint, given Barclays have accepted and upheld Mr Ss complaint 
about it failing to remove the legal charge on his property, I will consider if the redress it has 
offered Mr S is sufficient here. 
Mr Ss complaint centres around the fact he repaid a mortgage on one of his properties back 
in 1998 and at that time, Barclays failed to remove the legal charge, which he only noticed 
when going through some legal papers in June 2021. Mr S says he employed his solicitor to 
ask Barclays to remove the legal charge, but it took several months for it to do so, and over 
this period of time the stress and worry made his medical condition worse. 
Mr S doesnt feel Barclays offer to pay his legal costs of £189.60 and £200 for the trouble 
and upset goes far enough, and wants Barclays to pay him £1,000 per annum, since the 
time the legal charge should have been removed back in 1998. 
The first thing to say here is from the information provided to this service, the fact there was 
a legal charge outstanding didnt cause Mr S any direct financial disadvantage, as he has 
explained it wasnt this property he was looking to re-mortgage, but another property he 
owned. Thats not to say it wouldnt have been a cause of frustration and concern to Mr S to 
see a legal charge was outstanding, when the mortgage on that property was repaid by him 
many years ago. 
So, when considering this complaint, I have to look at whether Barclays having been made 
aware of its mistake, acted reasonably and fairly when putting matters right. Its fair to say 
Barclays only became reasonably aware in July 2021 after Mr Ss solicitor wrote to them, of 
the fact it hadnt removed the legal charge when it should have all those years back. 
While I was sorry to learn of Mr Ss illness which must be challenging for him and that is not 
in doubt, its not possible for me to say that the three months it took Barclays to confirm it 
had removed the legal charge, was the sole reason why Mr S says his medical condition 
worsened. Its worth mentioning here while perhaps three months may be longer than we 
would expect, I cant see Mr S or his solicitor ever chased Barclays during this time, which 
suggests the release of the legal charge wasnt preventing Mr S re-mortgaging elsewhere or 
directly causing Mr S any financial disadvantage. Nor can I see there was ever a time where 
Barclays had suggested to Mr S, there might be a problem in releasing the charge, which of 
course would then have been more worrying. 
Here Barclays have apologised for its error and offered to pay Mr Ss legal costs relating to 
the matter, along with £200 in compensation and I am satisfied this is a fair offer, given all 
the circumstances here. I will leave it with Mr S to decide if he wishes to take up Barclays 
offer. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here, other than what it has already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman