DRN-1455977
 
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) are charging 
interest on an item purchased under a Buy Now Pay later (BNPL) agreement.
What happened
Miss J purchased an item under a BNPL agreement in June 2018. This meant, if she repaid 
the full purchase price by 28 June 2019, no interest would be payable. But, on 28 June 
2019, Miss J still owed £200. So Shop Direct applied interest in line with the terms of the 
BNPL agreement. 
Miss J is unhappy that, in July 2019, Shop Direct told her shed made enough payments 
under the BNPL agreement and the interest charged would be refunded. But they gave her 
incorrect information and no refund was made. To put things right, Miss J thinks Shop Direct 
should clear the outstanding balance.
Our investigator found Shop Direct had acted reasonably. She said Shop Directs statements 
explained that interest could be avoided if the full balance was repaid by 28 June 2019. They 
also clearly explained how much Miss J still needed to repay under the BNPL agreement. As 
Miss J didnt clear the full balance on time, the investigator thought Shop Direct had applied 
the interest fairly.
The investigator also found that Shop Direct had mistakenly told Miss J shed paid the full 
balance before 28 June 2019, and the interest would be refunded. Because Shop Direct had 
previously been clear about how much Miss J needed to pay, and by when, she didnt think it 
was fair to ask them to now waive the interest. But she did think Shop Directs offer of £30 
for their error was fair so she didnt recommend they did anything more.
Miss J didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she didnt make a payment after being 
told she didnt owe anything and, when she was told thered been a mistake, she was still 
willing to pay what I owed. Because of this she doesnt think the interest should be charged 
and shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen copies of Miss Js statements for the period 27 October 2018 to 8 June 2019. 
These all refer to the BNPL agreement and say You Can Avoid The Interest On These Buy 
Now Pay Later Item(s) By Paying The Balance By 28 Jun 2019. These statements also 
show the item Miss J purchased and the balance owing  reducing from £661.37 on the 
October 2018 statement to £270.00 on the June 2019 statement.I agree these statements were clear and Miss J shouldve reasonably been aware of how 
much she owed on the BNPL agreement, and when this needed to be paid to avoid interest 
being charged. But Miss J only paid £70 towards the BNPL agreement after receiving the 
June statement  leaving a balance of £200 on 28 June 2019. So Shop Directly acted fairly 
by applying the interest in line with the terms of the BNPL agreement.
Miss J called Shop Direct about the BNPL interest on 15 July 2019. Its not disputed that, on 
this call, she was incorrectly told shed cleared the BNPL balance and that the interest would 
be refunded. To apologise for this error Shop Direct paid Miss J £30. Its my understanding 
that Miss J didnt receive this payment and our investigator has now arranged for the cheque 
to be reissued to her.
Miss J has said she didnt make a payment to the BNPL because shed been told shed 
cleared the balance. But this was after the interest had been applied. And she wouldve 
reasonably known from the June 2019 statement how much she still owed and that she 
hadnt paid this amount. Even if Miss J hadnt been given the incorrect information over the 
phone, then the outstanding £200 plus the interest would still have been due. So I cant say 
Shop Direct should refund the interest charged. 
But I agree that Miss J shouldnt have been told the BNPL balance had been cleared when it 
hadnt. This has clearly caused he some frustration and inconvenience. However, I think the 
£30 offered by Shop Direct is reasonable to compensate Miss 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman