DRN-3813474
The complaint
Mr S complains about the default notice recorded on his credit file by Lowell Financial Ltd. 
What happened
Mr S had a credit card with a business Ill call V, which closed the account at default in April 
2020. In April 2021 Lowell purchased the account from V and went on to record an entry on 
Mr S credit file. Lowell reported the account as in default. 
Lowell contacted Mr S and he made regular payments towards the outstanding balance. In 
May 2022 the balance was repaid and Mr S credit file was updated to note the debt had 
been settled. 
A short while later Mr S found both V and Lowell had recorded defaults about the same debt 
on his credit file. Mr S complained and said the default had been unfairly duplicated. Mr S 
also explained he hadnt received a default notice from either V or Lowell.
Lowell didnt agree it was unfairly reporting Mr S account as in default and said it wasnt 
responsible for issuing the default notice. Lowell didnt offer to remove the default or uphold 
Mr S complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They didnt think Lowell had acted 
unfairly by recording its own default on Mr S credit file. The investigator also said Lowell 
wasnt responsible for sending the default notice. 
Mr S asked to appeal and said Lowell had incorrectly told him V had removed its default 
when the debt was purchased. Mr S said Lowell had given him the wrong information and 
that he wanted one of the defaults to be removed. As Mr S asked to appeal his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has forwarded a copy of Lowells final response and it does say V ceased reporting the 
default once the debt had been sold. Mr S has pointed out the information provided is 
incorrect. I agree with Mr S that the claim V would cease reporting the default was wrong. 
Whilst I agree with Mr S that Lowell made a mistake, I havent been persuaded that means 
its acted unfairly by recording a default on Mr S credit file. 
Once Lowell purchased the debt it noted the account on Mr S credit file. The entry shows 
the default date. It also shows Mr S repaid the balance in full and settled the account. 
Businesses are obliged to report accurate information and Im satisfied the details Lowells 
recorded reflect whats happened with Mr S debt since it was purchased. 
Mr S has told us he didnt receive a default notice. But the account went into default whilst it 
was still owned by V. It wouldve been V that was responsible for the default notices being 
sent. As the account was already in default when Lowell acquired it, there was no 
requirement on it to issue new default notices to Mr S. 
I can see that Lowells letter to Mr S did say V would remove its entry and accept that was 
wrong. Id like to explain that we dont fine or punish businesses for making an error. We try 
and put the customer back into the correct position, had no error been made. Mr S has 
asked for the default record to be removed from his credit file on the basis Lowells mistake. 
But if no error had been made, Lowell wouldve referred Mr S back to V for guidance on 
whether the original default would be removed or not. So whilst I agree Lowell did give the 
wrong answer, I havent found grounds to tell it to remove its default. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I understand he feels its unfair to have two defaults relating 
to the same debt. But Im satisfied Lowells recorded accurate information about its debt with 
Mr S on his credit file. I havent found grounds to tell Lowell to remove its entry or take 
further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman