DRN-2729901
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
very brief overview of some key events here. 
In 2019 Mr D was sadly the victim of a scam. He believed he was using a legitimate online 
trading platform but later learned it was in fact a scam. Mr D made two payments towards 
the scam, the first was a debit card payment for around £430. The second was an 
international transfer for around £2,600. Both payments were made in March 2019.
In May 2019 when Mr D realised hed been the victim of a scam, he reported this to HSBC. 
Ultimately HSBC accepted that theyd failed to investigate the card payment and they 
refunded around £500 to Mr D to compensate him for this. But they declined to reimburse 
the international transfer as Mr D had authorised it himself and HSBC say they promptly 
contacted the international bank upon notification. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators concluded that HSBC 
had acted fairly and she didnt recommend they needed to do more. Mr D disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that due to HSBCs refund that there is no loss to Mr D in relation to the card 
payment. So, I dont think they need to do more on that point and Ill keep my findings to the 
issue still in dispute, the transfer.
Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. Ive 
carefully considered the circumstances here and I dont think there was anything so unusual 
about Mr Ds outgoing transfer where it would be reasonable to have expected HSBC to 
have intervened. 
There is obviously a balance to be struck between being alert to fraud and allowing 
customers ready access to their funds. It isnt reasonable to expect banks to be involved in 
every transaction that takes place. And I note that Mr D reasonably regularly made 
payments from his account of similar and greater amounts. I dont think there was anything 
that would have stood out to the extent that HSBC should have had concerns about this 
payment before releasing it. The fact that it was an international payment doesnt change my 
mind on this.
Im also satisfied that HSBC promptly informed the beneficiary bank that the payment had 
been made as the result of a scam. So, I dont think they could have done more to try to 
recover the funds once made aware of the problem. 
Mr D has referenced recent industry changes specifically the introduction of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme which is often able to assist 
victims of scams to obtain refunds from their banks. HSBC have signed up to the CRM. But 
unfortunately for Mr D, the CRM only applies to payments made between UK banks, not 
international payments. And the CRM also wasnt introduced until May 2019, when his 
payment was in March 2019. The CRM isnt retrospective. So overall, I cant use the 
provisions of the CRM as a reason to direct HSBC to provide a refund. 
Im sorry to hear Mr D has been a victim in this way, but I dont think HSBC are responsible 
for his loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman