DRN-3013011
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Best Risk Management & Financial Service Limited wont cover her 
income protection claim, after she says it mis-sold her income protection.
What happened
Mrs G purchased an income protection policy through Best Risk in September 2017. She 
had a number of phone calls with Best Risk before taking out the policy she ended up with.
In 2020 Mrs G unfortunately needed to make a claim on her income protection policy. She 
found herself without work due to the pandemic. Her insurer declined her claim, as it said 
she didnt meet the test required for self-employed people to claim for unemployment.
Mrs G raised a complaint against Best Risk for mis-selling her the policy. She said it hadnt 
made the terms around claiming as a self-employed person clear. If it had, she wouldnt 
have bought this cover as shed never be able to meet them. Best Risk offered to refund the 
premiums shed paid as a gesture of good will.
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. She explained that she wouldve always taken 
out a policy, as she was looking for cover to protect her income, and as she was taking out 
extra borrowing. So she said Best Risk should pay her what a successful claim wouldve 
paid out under the policy she held. It didnt agree to this.
Mrs G came to our service and an investigator looked into her complaint. His final view was 
that Best Risk should add 8% simple interest onto the premium refund, as he concluded it 
had mis-sold this policy. But he didnt agree it should cover what the policy Mrs G had 
wouldve paid out for a successful claim. Mrs G provided examples of other policies she 
wouldve bought if she hadnt been mis-sold this one, but our investigator ultimately decided 
the interest award was fair compensation in this case.
Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans decision as did Best Risk. It didnt agree it had mis-sold 
the policy as it said it was a non-advised sale and it was for Mrs G to check the policy was 
right for her. Mrs G didnt accept that she shouldnt get the value of her claim and felt that 
Best Risk should train its staff better and improve its documentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive informally set out to Mrs R that I dont consider she should receive the value of her 
claim. Ive reviewed the alternative policies she has provided to us and also Best Risks 
testimony that it doesnt sell a policy that would cover a consumer in Mrs Gs situation  
self-employed, without debts to creditors and looking to claim as a result of the pandemic. 
And based on my experience, and reviewing the policies Mrs G has sent, I agree with Best 
Risk that these wouldnt cover her. And its unlikely she couldve found a regular income 
protection policy that would.
Due to this I cant agree Best Risk does need to cover the value shes calculated for her 
claim. I havent got any evidence that a policy wouldve paid out in this situation. And even if 
one did, Mrs G wouldve needed to pay premiums for it, which wouldnt be the equivalent of 
what she did pay, as Im satisfied no mainstream provider covers this situation. So I cant 
fairly say Best Risk does need to pay what the policy Mrs G had wouldve paid for a 
successful unemployment claim, as I cant be confident this is a position she wouldve been 
in. 
Best Risk has argued it didnt mis-sell Mrs G this policy, so its only returning her premiums 
as a good will gesture. But Im in agreement with our investigator that the policy was mis-
sold. Just because a sale is non-advised doesnt mean the seller has no responsibilities in 
relation to the information it gives. 
Ive listened to the sales calls in this case and its clear the brokers agent knows Mrs G is 
self-employed and in one of the later calls she asks him about the process to claim. He 
discusses her signing on, but not any of the other steps. In the call on 26 September 2017, 
when she asks about signing on to claim for unemployment, he says:
Yeah correct, just sign on at the job centre Erm yes, you could sell these for me! 
Erm yeah, its very simple really once youve got as far as signing on. Just like a 
doctors note, use that as proof to the insurer that youre unemployed and youre 
actively seeking new work. 
As both parties are aware, Mrs G needed to do more and her business needed to be in a 
much more severe state to claim than just her signing on. I dont consider that this comment 
is enough to say the policy was advised, and so Mrs G didnt then need to check the terms 
for herself. And Best Risk did make it clear at the start it wouldnt give advice. But at the 
same time I do think the agent said more than he should have. 
As Best Risk knew Mrs Gs employment status, I think its agent shouldve highlighted to her 
that the policy would have different terms for self-employed people. And so she should make 
sure she read this section of her policy in full. And when she asked about the unemployment 
claims process, this shouldve also been his response then  telling her to go and read the 
terms for herself to make sure she understood them, and could meet what was required. 
Best Risk needed to give Mrs G enough information to make an informed decision and I 
dont agree that in this case simply sending out paperwork was enough, as she asked 
additional questions and the agent answered them in a misleading way. I accept the policy 
sets out that it has different terms for the self-employed, but I also accept that Mrs G had 
asked about this and not been prompted to read them by the agent. So while I maintain that 
her claim shouldnt be paid, I do consider she was mis-sold this policy, as the agent didnt 
give her clear or not misleading information, so she could make an informed choice. 
Due to the above I consider that a premium refund, with 8% simple interest on each 
premium from when it was paid, until it was or is refunded is the correct redress. Im aware 
the insurer has been involved in redress for Mrs G too. So Best Risk will need to correspond 
with the other parties here to establish what is left to be returned to Mrs G. She shouldnt 
have any double benefit, but she also mustnt be left out of pocket because Best Risk is 
aware an offer has been made and potentially paid by another party. 
Putting things right
Best Risk Management & Financial Service Limited should make sure all Mrs Gs premiums 
have been returned to her. And it should pay 8% simple interest on each premium payment 
from the date it was paid, until the date it was/is refunded. As above, Best Risk should correspond with Mrs G and the insurer to make sure that the 
correct, remaining amount is paid to her.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Best Risk 
Management & Financial Service Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman