DRN-2649391
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited offered to increase her credit limit on two 
occasions as she believes these credit limit increases were unaffordable for her at those 
times.
What happened
Miss L applied for a credit card account with Vanquis in 2017. The application was approved, 
and Vanquis issued a credit card to Miss L with an initial credit limit of £500.
In March 2018 Vanquis reviewed Miss Ls account and offered to increase her credit limit to 
£1,000. In May 2019 Vanquis conducted a further review of Miss Ls account and offered to 
increase her credit limit again, this time to £1,750.
In April 2020 Miss L raised a complaint with Vanquis. Miss L felt that the increases to her 
credit limit that Vanquis had offered hadnt been affordable for her, and that this should have 
been clear to Vanquis, had they undertaken appropriate checks into her financial 
circumstances at those times.
Vanquis looked at Miss Ls complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Miss Ls financial circumstances and that those checks hadnt 
suggested that the increases wouldnt be affordable for Miss L. So, they didnt uphold Miss 
Ls complaint.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ls complaint. But they also felt that Vanquis had 
conducted reasonable checks, and that these checks didnt highlight anything that should 
have caused Vanquis to not make the credit limit increase offers that they did. So, our 
investigator also didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss L feels strongly about this complaint, and Ive taken onboard the 
comments that shes made and the information that shes provided, including that she was 
making use of short-term payday loans around the time that one of the credit limit increases 
was offered to her.
Its for a lender to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, on what terms. 
What this service would expect is that the lender undertakes reasonable and proportionate 
checks before offering credit to a new customer or offering to increase the credit limit 
available to an existing customer.
In this instance, in their assessments of Miss Ls financial circumstances before offering the 
credit limit increases, Vanquis conducted reviews of how Miss L had been managing her 
account with them, and they also checked Miss Ls credit file to better understand her wider 
financial circumstances at those times.
Miss L has questioned why Vanquis didnt ask to review her bank statements, which would 
have provided a more in-depth understanding of her financial position, and which Miss Ls 
believes would have better demonstrated that she was struggling financially at those times.
I can understand why Miss L would question this point. But the requirement is that Vanquis 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks, in consideration of the circumstances of the 
credit being offered. And Im not convinced that Vanquis asking for copies of Miss Ls bank 
statements would have been proportionate here  with the requirement being that higher 
amounts of credit being offered should be subject to more in-depth levels of checks. 
The checking of a customers bank statements would be something this service would only 
usually expect for offers of credit significantly larger than those being offered by Vanquis to 
Miss L at these times. So, I dont feel that I can fairly censure Vanquis for not undertaking 
more detailed checks here, and Im satisfied that the level of checks undertaken by Vanquis 
were reasonable and proportionate for the amounts of credit being offered.
Im also satisfied that the information that Vanquis gathered from those checks didnt include 
anything that should have suggested to Vanquis that the credit limit increases they 
subsequently offered to Miss L would have been unaffordable for her.
That isnt to say that Miss L wasnt struggling financially, but rather that there was nothing in 
the information from the checks that Vanquis undertook which should have caused Vanquis 
to conclude that Miss L was struggling financially. And I say this because Miss L was 
managing her account with Vanquis, as well as other accounts visible to Vanquis on her 
credit file, without missing payments or going into arrears.
I understand that this will be frustrating for Miss L, but this service is only able to hold a 
business accountable for acting on the information that they had available to them. And, 
based on my own assessment of the information that Vanquis would have assessed here, I 
dont feel that this information suggested that Miss L was in a financial position such that it 
was unreasonable for Vanquis to make the credit limit increase offers that they did.
Miss L has pointed out that she had taken several short-term loans in the period leading up 
to the second credit limit increase. I appreciate that Miss L believes that her taking these 
loans indicated that she was struggling financially. But while the usage of short-term loans 
can be indicators of financial difficulty when considered in context with the wider 
circumstances of a persons financial position, it isnt the case that the act of using a short- 
term loan is of itself considered as being a definite indicator of financial distress. 
I say this because a person is entitled to manage their credit as they see fit  including the 
use of short-term loans  and it must be noted that it appears that Miss L was able to meet 
the repayment commitments of these short-term loans so that they werent reported as being 
repaid late.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly or unreasonably here in 
offering Miss L the credit limit increases that they did. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Vanquis to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss L was wanting, but I hope that she can 
understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have made the decision that 
I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman