DRN-2973752
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC placed an account block on his accounts for 
longer than it said it would.
 What happened
Mr D says Barclays placed a block on his personal and business accounts and told him a 
review would take 14 working days to complete. He says the review took far longer and 
caused him significant inconvenience and distress and also impacted his business. Mr D 
would like access to his accounts and compensation as well as an explanation for money 
deducted from his account but not returned.
Barclays says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to place a block on an 
account. It says it aims to complete a review within 15 working days but accepts it was 29 
working days before these reviews were completed. Barclays has offered £100 
compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained that a claim had been made 
against Mr D and that is why money was removed from his account. The investigator 
explained that was a separate issue and also explained this complaint was about the impact 
on Mr D and not his business. The investigator accepted the review had taken longer than it 
ought to have and recommended Barclays pay £200 compensation.
Barclays has agreed to that award.
Mr D doesnt accept that recommendation and says the compensation should be 
significantly higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr D will be disappointed by my decision and make clear to him I can only consider the 
impact on him and not his business, as that business is a separate legal entity and has 
made a complaint itself. I also cant consider Mr Ds complaint about the deduction of money 
from his account as that is something Barclays hasnt looked into yet.
Im satisfied that in line with agreed account terms and conditions Barclays is entitled to 
restrict account access or place an account block on an account. So, I dont think Barclays 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by restricting Mr Ds account use and find that decision was 
made in line with account terms and conditions which Mr D would have agreed to when the 
account was opened.
I appreciate such a decision would have caused Mr D inconvenience and there is no dispute 
here that the review took about two weeks longer than it should. I have not seen any 
evidence of financial loss to Mr D personally. So, Im satisfied that Barclays should pay £200 
compensation which I think is fair and reasonable and reflects the fact that the issue took 
about an extra two weeks to sort out. I also think Mr Ds direct debit payments were made 
during the review period and that he could have asked for any income from work to be paid 
by Barclays with evidence of a payslip or payment agreement. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Barclays to pay Mr D £200 compensation for the impact on him personally. I 
dont think it clear if Barclays has paid the £100 compensation it initially offered. So I make 
clear that, if it has, then it should deduct that payment from the award to Mr D, if Mr Ds 
accepts this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
D a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman