DRN-3081889
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt give his fair or accurate information when he 
explored extending the term of his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C has a flexible mortgage product with Santander that allows drawdowns. In 2018, Mr C 
asked Santander for information about extending the term of the mortgage and drawing 
down some additional borrowing. He says he was told this was possible.
When Mr C contacted Santander to drawdown the money he needed an extend the term. 
Santander processed the drawdown of £55,500 first and told Mr C he would need to speak 
to a different department about extending the term. But when he did so, Santander said that 
the only way he could do that was if he switched to a different mortgage product, with a 
higher interest rate.
Mr C said that the term extension was a vital part of his decision to take the drawdown. He 
said that if he had been given the correct information it was unlikely he would have taken the 
additional borrowing. Mr C said he and his wife were terribly distressed about the incorrect 
information he had been given  and particularly the impact on his planned payments and 
outgoings because he cant extend the term.
On review the investigator thought that Santander should pay Mr C £200 for any distress 
and inconvenience. 
Santander accepted what Mr C said. Mr C didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Santander didnt allow term extensions on the mortgage product Mr C 
holds. So it gave him incorrect and misleading information when it led him to believe that 
was possible without mentioning he would need to take a different interest rate. This doesnt 
appear to be in dispute.
There is a note of a conversation that Mr C had with Santander in 2018 where it said that he 
would lose flexi benefits if he extended the term, apart from if certain criteria were met. I 
dont think this supports that Santander gave Mr C the correct information at an earlier point.
Where a business has made a mistake, we look to put the affected party back in the position 
they would have been in had they been given the correct information in the first place.
Mr C said he wouldnt have taken the borrowing. But he found out very soon after the 
drawdown that he couldnt extend the term of the mortgage. But he didnt return the funds, 
which he could do without any charges or fees. He has also had the benefit of those funds. 
Overall, Im not sufficiently persuaded that Mr C would have done anything differently had he 
been given the correct information.
I cant say that Santander should extend the term of the mortgage  that was never available 
to Mr C unless he switched mortgage products. But Santander should have taken a great 
deal more care to give Mr C accurate information about his options. Its failure to do so has 
caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C took steps to plan very carefully for the drawdown and term extension. He had planned 
his finances around both taking the drawdown and extending the term of the mortgage. So 
the impact of not extending the term was that it increased his payments by more than he 
expected. He has explained that this has a long-term impact on him and his family. It will 
reduce the disposable income they have to spend and affect their lifestyle.
While I havent seen any evidence that the impact of the payments has caused Mr C any 
actual hardship, he has told us about the impact the mistake has had on his emotions and 
family life. I am satisfied that the amount of disposable income Mr C had was an important 
factor in his decision to go ahead with the drawdown. 
Mr C was relying in Santander to give him clear, fair and not misleading information. And he 
was making important financial decisions that impacted him and his family based on the 
information he was given. However, looking at everything that  happened and the impact on 
Mr C, I think £200 would be a fair amount to reflect the distress he experienced as a result of 
this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr C £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman