DRN-2973015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Thamesbank Insurance Services failed to point out what
they consider to be a significant limitation and change in the theft cover when they arranged
a new home insurance policy for them early in 2014.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a home insurance policy in 2013 through Thamesbank. When this
came up for renewal in 2014, Thamesbank sent them a notice providing them with a quote
for an alternative policy, as it wasnt able to offer renewal of Mr and Mrs Ts existing policy.
Mrs T rang up to query the amount Thamesbank had quoted for the alternative policy. And
Thamesbank offered another alternative policy at a slightly lower annual premium. Mrs T
decided to go ahead with this policy. Thamesbank sent out a covering letter, along with the
policy documentation, which included a Key Facts document and full policy wording.
The covering letter referred to Mr and Mrs T renewing their policy, as opposed to
saying they were taking out a completely new policy.
Mr and Mrs T then renewed this policy in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The insurer was the
same between 2014 and renewal in 2018, but it changed at renewal in February 2018.
In February or March 2019 a workman working in Mr and Mrs Ts home stole items of
jewellery. Mr and Mrs T claimed under the policy. Initially their claim was turned down in its
entirety, but in the end the insurance company agreed to pay out for two of the items. But
it wouldnt pay out for the other items, because only theft involving violent and forcible
entry to the property was covered by the policy.
Mrs T complained to Thamesbank. She said under the policy she and Mr T had in 2013
through Thamesbank, their claim would have been covered, because theft was covered,
irrespective of whether there was violent and forcible entry, other than in limited
circumstances. Mrs T said the difference in the level of theft cover should have been pointed
out to her by Thamesbank when it sold the new policy to her in 2014. She didnt think it
should have been left to her to spot it on page 37 of the policy document she and Mr T were
sent after shed agreed to take out the new policy.
Thamesbank didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. It said that it wasnt obliged to
point out every policy term or highlight every difference in the new policy. And it felt it had
fulfilled its obligations when it sold Mr and Mrs T the new policy in 2014 by sending the policy
documentation.
Mrs T wasnt happy with Thamesbanks response and asked us to consider her complaint.
And one of our investigators considered it. She didnt think it should be upheld, as she
thought Thamesbank had fulfilled its obligations when it sold Mr and Mrs T the new
policy in 2014.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
I issued two provisional decisions, both explaining why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. In the second one, issued on 16 June 2021, I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules in place at the time Mr and Mrs T originally bought the policy in 2014 covering the
sale of general insurance were The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). I
am aware that different rules applied in respect of the sale of PPI policies and I have not
considered these. My reference to the mis-sale of PPI policies in a conversation with a
representative from Thamesbank was to illustrate a point and is not a determining factor in
my decision in this complaint.
ICOBS 6 set out Thamesbanks responsibility to Mr and Mrs T as its customers as follows:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure a customer is given appropriate information
about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
ICOBS also set out the information that needed to be provided to a customer. And it said
that with a telephone sale, as was the case with Mrs T in 2014, limited information could be
provided prior to the conclusion of the contract. But it made it clear the rest of the information
required should be provided in good time after conclusion of the contract.
The information that needed to be provided by Thamesbank included the policy terms,
including its main benefits, exclusions, limitations, conditions and its duration. ICOBS didnt
state categorically how this information should be provided, but it did say a firm may wish to
provide it in a Policy Summary or Key Facts document. And I think it was good industry
practice at this time for either a Policy Summary or Key Facts document to be provided to a
customer taking out a home insurance policy. This is because a customer needed to be able
to easily identify the significant features and benefits, along with the significant exclusions
and limitations. And a key facts document or policy summary was an effective and industry
recognised way of helping them do this.
I think the exclusion of theft cover in the policy unless it involved violent and forcible entry or
exit to the insured property was significant. This is because ICOBS 6 Annex 3.1 G (2) said
that in determining what exclusions or limitations are significant, a firm should, in particular,
consider the exclusions and limitations that relate to the significant features and benefits of
the policy and factors which may have an adverse effect on benefit payable under it. And
the theft exclusion affects the extent of the theft cover, which I think is a significant feature of
a home insurance policy. And this means the key facts document provided to Mr and Mrs T
should have included it. But, it was not included.
ICOBS also set out who was responsible for producing the policy summary or key facts
document. And  because the insurer providing the cover under Mr and Mrs Ts policy in
2014 wasnt operating from a UK establishment, the intermediary involved was responsible
for producing the policy summary or key facts document (ICOBS 6 Annex 1(1)).
However, with Mr and Mrs Ts policy, there were two intermediaries involved. The first was
the intermediary (Firm A) who arranged the scheme which Thamesbank accessed to provide
Mr and Mrs Ts policy. And the second was Thamesbank. This makes responsibility for the
production of the Key Facts document provided to Mr and Mrs T more complicated.
However, I think it was Firm As responsibility to produce it and not Thamesbanks. All
Thamesbank had to do was provide it to Mr and Mrs T in good time after Mrs T had agreed
to buy the policy. It did this, so I think it fulfilled its obligations in this regard. Obviously, the
Key Facts document didnt include the theft exclusion, when it should have done, but I thinkthis was Firm As responsibility, not Thamesbanks.
However, I also have to consider Thamesbanks obligation in Mr and Mrs Ts particular
circumstances to provide them with appropriate information, so they could make an informed
decision about the arrangements proposed. Mrs T was being offered a different policy and I
can see why  in the absence of a stronger warning from Thamesbank that the cover could
be different  Mrs T thought the cover was basically the same as her previous policy.
Especially as the intermediary providing it was the same as with their previous policy. I
appreciate Mrs T wanted a cheaper policy, but  so far as I can see - she did not say at any
point that she was happy with one providing more limited cover.
So I think to enable Mr and Mrs T to make an informed decision, Thamesbank needed to
warn Mrs T that the cover under the policy they were offering could be more limited and that
she needed to check it carefully. I think this was even more important, as the policy
Thamesbank offered when Mrs T called was through the same intermediary as the policy
she and Mr T had the previous year.
I think if Thamesbank had done this Mrs T would have scrutinised the policy document and
compared the key aspects of cover. And I think that  as she did after her claim, shed have
appreciated the more limited theft cover. I appreciate the documentation said Mr and Mrs T
needed to read the policy wording carefully, but this is different to their broker warning them
the cover could be more limited and they needed to check it was still appropriate for them.
In view of what Ive said, Ive gone on to consider whether Thamesbanks failure to provide a
stronger warning about the possibility of the cover being more limited prejudiced Mr and Mrs
Ts position. And I think it did. This is because I think if Mrs T had checked the new policy
and compared it to her previous one, she (would) have noticed the more limited theft cover 
and decided against buying it. And would instead have bought one with the same level of 
theft cover as she and Mr T had under their previous policy. I say this, as theft cover is one 
of the key aspects of cover under a home insurance policy and I think it would therefore 
have been one of the insured events Mrs T would have looked at very carefully to compare 
the cover being provided under her previous policy to what was being provided under the 
policy she and Mr T had been offered. And I dont think Mrs T would have been happy 
having a policy where in all circumstances theft was only covered if it involved violent and 
forcible entry to their home.
I say this because, I think Mrs T would have known she may have workman or other visitors
in her home from time to time. Also, shed have realised there may be times in summer
months where outside doors would be left open and an opportunist thief might have sneaked
in and stolen things. Also, I think Mr and Mrs T could have got a policy with the same level of
theft cover for the same cost as the one on offer from Thamesbank. This is because the
market was large and there were other brokers and comparison sites available. And in a
market as large as this and with so many options, I cant see any reason why Mr and Mrs T
couldnt have achieved this. After all, theyd had the cover at a significantly cheaper premium
the previous year.
Thamesbank has argued that Mrs Ts decision to take the policy it offered was largely driven
by price. This is because it has a note on its system that Mrs T called up because she wasnt
happy with the cost. Mrs T has confirmed during our investigation, she did call up because
the price of the policy was higher than her and Mr T had paid the previous year. But she has
said, that while she would have liked a cheaper policy, she didnt want one with inferior
cover.
It does seem from Thamesbanks notes and the documentation, the policy Thamesbank
offered when Mrs T called was slightly cheaper. Although, I am not convinced, as Mrs Tdoes appear to have a credit agreement which suggests the premium was £2 more. And it
would be helpful if Thamesbank could clarify this and  if it was £2 more  explain why it
offered it when Mrs T had asked for a cheaper policy. And it would also be helpful, if it was
actually £2 more, if Thamesbank could let me know what the extent of the theft cover was
under the policy it initially offered Mrs T to replace her and Mr Ts existing policy. This could
have a bearing on the outcome of the complaint, but I have not addressed it further at this
point, as there may be an explanation for the credit agreement showing the premium as £2
higher.
What is clear from Thamesbanks notes is that Mrs T did want a cheaper policy, as shed
been asked to pay a lot more than the previous year (£202.84 v £367.95). But, this doesnt
necessarily mean she was willing to compromise on the level of cover. And based on what
Mrs T has said, I dont think she did.
Ive noted Thamesbanks point that Mr and Mrs T renewed their policy five times before their
claim and were obliged to read the policy documents sent to them. And Thamesbank thinks
this means it shouldnt be held responsible if Mr and Mrs T didnt do this. There is of course
a general legal principle that the parties to a contract simply need to be provided with a copy
of it and then it is up to them to read it. But there were specific rules covering the sale of
general insurance contracts. These required Thamesbank to provide Mr and Mrs T with
appropriate information about the policy so they could make an informed decision about it.
And  as Ive explained, I dont think Thamesbank did this. And I think if it had done this, Mr
and Mrs T would have ended up with a policy that covered their claim and they wouldnt
have had the majority of it turned down. And I dont think it would produce a fair and
reasonable outcome if Mr and Mrs T were penalised for not scrutinising the policy document
in detail, as theyd not been warned cover under the policy could be more limited.
In summary, I think if Thamesbank had told Mrs T about the more limited theft cover under
the policy it offered in 2014, shed have bought a policy with the same theft cover as under
her previous policy. And  as a result of this  I think Mr and Mrs Ts insurer would have
accepted their claim for the unspecified items of jewellery stolen from their home. This 
means I still think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Mr and Mrs T
to be put in this position or as close as possible to it. And for the sake of finality and
completeness, I think the most appropriate way to do this is for me to award a cash amount
equivalent to what I think Mr and Mrs T would have been entitled to if their claim for all the
items of jewellery stolen had been accepted on the basis the theft cover under their policy
did not have the exclusion on which their insurer relied.
Thamesbank has suggested that any home insurance policy Mr and Mrs T could have
bought would have had a condition in it requiring them to take reasonable care of their
property. I accept this would have been the case. And Thamesbank has suggested Mr and
Mrs T may have breached this condition by leaving their jewellery in a box in a wardrobe,
while workman they didnt know anything about were working upstairs at their home
unsupervised. And I have taken from this that if I were to simply ask Thamesbank to work
out what further amount Mr and Mrs T would have got if their claim had been considered
without the exclusion, it could decide this would have been nothing, as the insurer would
most likely have said they had breached the reasonable care condition. In view of this, Ive
considered whether the insurer would have been entitled to rely on a breach of such a
condition to refuse Mr and Mrs Ts claim. And I dont think it would.
The main legal case where this sort of clause was considered is Sofi v Prudential Assurance
(reported in 1993 in volume 2 of the Lloyds law reports at page 559). In this case the
judgment made it clear that the test of whether a policyholder took reasonable care is one of
recklessness; that is  whether they recognised the risk but deliberately courted it. And the
judgment explained that people court risk if they take no measures at all, or take measuresthat they know will not be adequate to avert the risk.
So, Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs T realised there was a risk Mrs Ts jewellery
would be stolen if they left it in a box in a wardrobe while workmen not known to them were
working upstairs unsupervised. I think Mrs T must have realised there was a risk, as this was
the very reason I think shed have wanted wider theft cover under her policy. So I have gone
on to consider whether Mrs T courted the risk. And I dont think she did. Mrs T has explained
that the workman were not working in her bedroom and the wardrobe wasnt clearly visible
from the door. And Ive seen photographs that show this was the case. Plus, she kept the
door to her bedroom shut while the workmen were upstairs. In addition, the jewellery was in
a box made up of little drawers, so it wouldnt have been obvious it contained jewellery,
although I think most people would have thought this likely. Plus, Mrs T had hidden the
jewellery box behind some towels. So, while the measures Mrs T took clearly werent good
enough to stop one of the workman stealing the jewellery (which the insurer did not dispute),
I dont think Mrs T courted the risk by taking no steps at all or steps she knew were
inadequate. In which case, I dont think an insurer dealing with her and Mr Ts claim would
have been entitled to rely on a breach of the reasonable care condition to refuse it. So I dont
think Thamesbank is entitled to rely on the fact this would have been the case to refuse to
pay anything further in respect of Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Ive also noted there was a clause in Mr and Mrs Ts policy in 2018 which said if they were
under-insured, meaning the cost of replacing their contents was more than their sum insured
of £50,000, the insurer would only pay a proportion of their claim. And I think it is fair to say
this clause would have also been in whatever policy Mr and Mrs T would have purchased if
theyd been aware of the theft exclusion in the policy Thamesbank arranged for them. I say
this because, while I accept they didnt want a policy with more limited cover, I think they
would have wanted a policy at a similar price to the one they were originally offered by
Thamesbank. And I think any policy at this price would most likely have had a specified
sum insured for contents. And I think Mr and Mrs T would have chosen a sum insured of
£50,000, as thats what they had under the policy they did take out. I also think theyd have
stuck with this sum insured and still had it at renewal in 2018. I appreciate some policies do
have index linking and the sum insured goes up year on year, but Mr and Mrs Ts sum
insured was clearly shown as £50,000 at renewal of their policy in February 2018 and they
didnt query this.
Mr and Mrs Ts claim for stolen jewellery excluding the two items they had specified, and the
insurer paid out, for was £13,256, which was over 20% of their total contents sum insured.
And the two items that were insured specifically were only insured for 60-70% of their actual
replacement cost. The loss adjusters pointed out that two items Mr and Mrs T had insured
for less than their full replacement cost and the total value of their jewellery suggested they
were under-insured overall.
So I asked Mrs T about this and she provided a breakdown of her and Mr Ts contents,
including jewellery, to show that £50,000 was enough to replace all their contents. And
looking at this, I am satisfied they werent under-insured. I appreciate that the two items of
jewellery theyd specified were under-insured, but this doesnt mean the remainder of their
contents were under-insured. I will of course provide a copy of the estimates Mrs T has
provided to Thamesbank for consideration.
I also asked Mrs T to provide proof of ownership of the stolen jewellery and she has
provided this through photographs and receipts. Im satisfied from these and the post loss
valuations that Mrs T provided for her jewellery based on descriptions that she did own the
jewellery. And that it was stolen and that the replacement costs are as per the post loss
valuation. I will also provide this evidence to Thamesbank.As Ive already explained, I think if Thamesbank hadnt failed to meet its obligations Mr and
Mrs T would have been covered for the theft of their jewellery and would have had the
remainder of it replaced by their insurer or received what this would have cost. And 
although I dont know what policy Mr and Mrs T would have had when they came to claim, I
think it is fair to apply the same valuables limit of 40% of the contents sum insured and the
same single article limit of £2,500 as they had under the policy they did have. This is
because I think any policy they are likely to have bought would have had similar limits.
This means, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is for
Thamesbank to pay what it would cost to replace the remainder of Mrs Ts jewellery based
on the post loss valuation Mrs T has provided. This is because the jewellery stolen excluding
the specified items was less than 40% of the contents sum insured and none of the
remaining articles have a replacement cost of more than £2,500. Mr and Mrs T received a
payment for the two items of jewellery specifically insured. And  as Ive said  the
replacement cost of the remaining jewellery is £13,256. Mr and Mrs T had a policy excess of
£100 and so I think it is fair to assume this would have been deducted from any settlement
under the alternative policy they would have purchased. This means I think Thamesbank
should pay Mr and Mrs T £13,156 to put right the loss they suffered as a result of its failure
to meet its obligations when they arranged a replacement policy for them.
Also, I still think Thamesbanks failing caused Mr and Mrs T a significant amount of distress
and inconvenience, in that they had a claim turned down that would otherwise have been
accepted. And this and the fact Mrs T could not replace her jewellery would have caused
them worry and concern. Therefore, it remains my view, as per my previous provisional
decision, that Thamesbank should pay Mr and Mrs T an additional £300 in compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
I appreciate Thamesbank have cited other decisions, which they think support their
argument that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should not be upheld. But I have to decide this case
on its own merits, based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I have provisionally decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts
complaint and make Thamesbank Insurance Services pay them the following:
£13,156 as compensation for stolen jewellery.
£300 as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties four weeks to provide further comments or evidence. Mrs T responded 
with the following comments:
She wholeheartedly agrees with my conclusions.
Some of the companies involved in the provision of the policy operate from the same 
address and this suggests the insurer involved may not be independent.
The main reason for her call when she and Mr T were offered the replacement policy in 
2014 was to check it gave them the continuous cover necessary for their ongoing legal 
expenses claim. And Thamesbank is wrong to suggest she was driven by price, just 
because she queried a policy being offered with an increase in premium from the 
previous year of 81.4%. And the fact she is not driven by price is backed up by the fact 
the new policy she purchased to replace the policy in place at the time of her claim cost 
over £700.She assumed shed been sold a direct replacement policy, so she felt there was no need 
to read the policy document, as she assumed it was a direct replacement for the policy 
she and Mr T had the previous year. She suspects the replacement policy originally 
offered had a lower level of theft cover as well. 
Thamesbank have tried to put 100% of the onus on her to spot the differences between 
the policy she and Mr T had and the new policy they offered and she agreed to 
purchase. 
The reason her loss was not fully substantiated was because her and Mr Ts claim was 
rejected before she had the chance to submit her valuations. 
The only further step she could have taken to protect her valuables was to put them all in 
a safe; something the policy did not require. 
She is concerned Thamesbank will do everything it can to discredit the amounts shown 
in her valuation of her contents. And  having sold her home in 2019 and much of the 
furniture, it would be extremely difficult to prove her figures beyond reasonable doubt.  
Thamesbank has responded to say it doesnt agree with my second provisional decision and 
it has made the following points:
The impact and importance of the call recordings its provided have been disregarded in 
favour of what Mrs T has told me about conversations she claims to recall from nearly 
seven years ago. 
It is clear from the breakdown Mrs T has provided that they have not taken the full 
contents of their home into consideration when commenting on the adequacy of their 
sum insured. 
It denies it sought to withhold any information from Mr and Mrs T.
Its noted Ive referred to a change of insurer in 2018. Its confirmed this is correct, but 
pointed out it was a change in carrier, not a change in cover. And it cant see how me 
referring to an insurer based in Gibraltar, who was not involved in the contract at the time 
of Mr and Mrs Ts loss is relevant. And it doesnt think it should have any bearing on my 
decision. 
Its made the point again that Mr and Mrs T should have read the policy document. And 
its pointed out that the fact the insurer providing their policy in 2014 was based in 
Gibraltar was clearly and transparently displayed. 
Its pointed out that the intermediary who arranged the scheme under which Mr and Mrs 
Ts policy was provided in 2014 did this through a Managing General Agency (MGA) with 
another company, which was authorised by the FCA. And its pointed out that 
responsibility for the Key Facts document provided to Mr and Mrs T rested with this 
company, not Thamesbank. 
The policy Mr and Mrs T purchased was distributed via a large number of brokers across 
the UK, including Thamesbank. And it sold many thousands of them and Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy is the only one with which it has had any issue. Its also spoken to the intermediary 
(Firm A) who arranged the scheme and its said the restriction to the theft cover hasnt 
produced any other complaints across the thousands of policies sold. 
The policy that Thamesbank originally offered Mr and Mrs T, which they declined, did not 
include the same limitation in the theft cover to theft involving violent and forcible entry, 
as under the policy they purchased. So it offered them like for like cover, but Mrs T 
declined this and didnt specify any particular demands and needs in respect of theft. 
Its confirmed the annual premium for the policy it offered after Mrs T called to query the 
price was £8.20 less. 
It feels Ive overlooked the fact that at renewal of Mr and Mrs Ts policy in 2015, 2016, 
2017 and 2018 they were issued with a renewal notice, along with a policy summary, 
policy schedule and policy document. And at each renewal they were given clear 
instructions to read the documentation carefully to ensure the cover met their needs. It 
thinks this shows Mr and Mrs T were provided with sufficient information when they purchased each policy in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. So it doesnt think Mr and Mrs T 
were buying a policy without being told about the limitation in the theft cover. And  even 
if it was to accept my assertion that if failed to provide adequate information in 2014 
(which it continues to dispute entirely), it fully complied with its responsibilities under 
ICOBS 6 in 2015 to 2019. It also complied with ICOBS 5 at the point of the original sale 
in 2014.
It does not understand how its renewal procedure between 2015 and 2019, making full 
disclosure of all the terms and conditions ahead of renewal was not compliant with FCA 
rules. 
Ive said I think the limitation in the theft cover was significant, but I decided in a previous 
case it was not. And my stance in this case is a direct contradiction of my own stance on 
the matter. And there have been other decisions where the ombudsman has ruled this 
sort of limitation is not significant. It believes my decision should reflect these decisions, 
although it accepts ombudsman decisions do not set a legal precedent. And it maintains 
the limitation in theft cover to theft involving violent and forcible entry is not significant. 
The whole premise of Mrs Ts complaint is that she wasnt told about the limitation in the 
theft cover. And I am taking Mrs T at her word on this and disregarding any 
representations it is making. And while it cant prove that it did advise Mrs T of the 
limitation, it has no reason to believe it didnt.  
At no point have I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs T had a responsibility to read the terms 
of the contract they were willingly entering in to. Each party had their responsibilities and 
Ive failed to acknowledge those of Mr and Mrs T.  
Ive taken the photographs Mrs T has provided as evidence of ownership. However, 
while they prove the items exist, they dont necessarily prove ownership or their quality. 
And it finds it strange that Mrs T describes the items as having such financial and 
sentimental value, but has not obtained regular valuations. 
It does not accept liability in this case, but to best equip itself it has approached the firm 
of loss adjusters who dealt with Mr and Mrs Ts claim. And theyve pointed out that based 
on the estimated value of the specified items by Mrs T, their jeweller returned a valuation 
of 20% less. And theyve also said theyd be able to obtain a further 12% discount if the 
insurer had elected to replace the stolen jewellery. And based on this they think the 
correct settlement for the remainder of jewellery not covered by Mr and Mrs Ts insurer is 
£9,261.82.
If I find in favour of Mr and Mrs T and its obliged to make settlement it would do so by 
paying this amount. And it thinks any award in excess of this amount would disregard the 
basis of settlement stated by the insurers chosen firm of professional advisers.   
Having received Thamesbanks response to my second provisional decision, I put its 
comments on the settlement amount it thinks would be due if I upheld the complaint to Mr 
and Mrs T. 
Mrs T has said she doesnt agree with the figure Thamesbank has suggested, as it wont 
enable her to replace the stolen jewellery. Shes pointed out that theres been inflation since 
her jewellery was stolen and the price of gold has gone up. And she thinks this has put the 
cost of replacing her jewellery up. Shes suggested that if I uphold her complaint I should 
award interest on the amount due to her and that this would bring the amount she would be 
entitled to, based on the settlement amount suggested by Thamesbank, to nearer £12,000.
Mrs T has said she would not be prepared to accept a lower cash settlement and would 
prefer exact replacements for her jewellery if she cannot have the figure of close to £12,000 
shes suggested. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have considered all the additional points Thamesbank and Mrs T have made. 
But, because we are an informal dispute resolution service and because I have already 
issued two provisional decisions addressing the vast majority of these points, I do not intend 
to address every further point both parties have made in detail. I will instead address the 
ones that I consider are key and that I need to address to explain why I still think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me to uphold it.
I think that when Mrs T called Thamesbank in 2014, she did want a cheaper policy than the 
one on offer. But, as I will address later, this doesnt necessarily mean she was willing to 
take a cheaper one with inferior cover. I will also address Mrs Ts concerns about the cost of 
replacing her jewellery later on in the section headed Putting things right. 
Turning now to what Thamesbank has said in response to my provisional decision. I should 
make it clear that I have not disregarded any of the evidence Thamesbank has provided. Its 
just that I accept Mrs Ts testimony that she didnt want a cheaper policy in 2014 if the cover 
under it was inferior to the cover under her previous policy. The fact she may have been 
driven to some extent by price, doesnt in itself prove this would have been the only deciding 
factor for her in what policy to take. As I explained in my provisional decision, Thamesbank 
needed to put Mrs T in the position to be able to make an informed decision. This means it 
needed to provide her with enough information to be able to do this. And I still think this 
included warning her that, although the policy it was offering was slightly cheaper, the cover 
under it could be more limited and that she needed to check it carefully. But the evidence I 
have seen suggests Thamesbank didnt do this. 
I do of course appreciate Thamesbank provided policy documentation at subsequent 
renewals. But I dont think this was enough to overcome what I think was the impact of its 
failure to meet its obligations in 2014. I say this because I still think if Thamesbank had 
warned Mrs T appropriately, shed have scrutinised the policy document carefully and picked 
up the difference in the theft cover. Ive already explained why I think this would have been 
the case in my provisional decisions and so I dont propose to do so again here.  
I think I set out clearly in my second provisional decision the significance of the policy 
Thamesbank arranged for Mr and Mrs T in 2014 being provided by a Gibraltar based insurer. 
It was this that meant the responsibility for providing the policy summary (key facts 
document) rested with the other intermediary involved (Firm A), as opposed to the insurer. 
But I also explained why this wasnt Thamesbanks responsibility. Thamesbank has now 
suggested there was a third intermediary involved, who would have been responsible for 
producing the policy summary. But  as I dont think this was Thamesbanks responsibility, 
Ive not gone into this issue further. 
I accept Mr and Mrs T as parties to the contract arranged for them should have read the 
policy document. But they should have been made aware of the importance of doing so in 
2014 because the cover under it could be more limited. If Thamesbank had warned them 
about this, I think Mrs T would have scrutinised the policy and compared the key parts of it 
very carefully to the policy her and Mr T had previously. And the theft cover is a key part of 
any home insurance policy, so  as I explained in my second provisional decision, I think 
Mrs T would have spotted the difference. 
So, while Mr and Mrs T ideally would have read the full policy anyway, this doesnt alter the 
fact that it was Thamesbanks failure to point out the cover could be more limited that led to 
them agreeing to purchase the policy and not compare it to the previous one they had. Or compare it to the policy theyd originally been offered, which Thamesbank have confirmed 
provided wider theft cover for an annual premium of only £8.20 per year more. 
As Ive already mentioned, Ive noted what Thamesbank has said about the documentation 
provided to Mr and Mrs T when they renewed their policy in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2018. But 
none of the key facts documents provided at these renewals highlighted the limitation of the 
theft cover to theft involving violent and forcible entry. And the fact Thamesbank fulfilled its 
obligations in providing this documentation at renewals, doesnt alter my view that its failure 
to fulfil its obligations in 2014 prejudiced Mr and Mrs Ts position. 
I can see why Mrs T thinks the annual premium for the policy she eventually purchased was 
£2 more. But, the figure she appears to be referring to of £369.75 is a credit limit on the 
finance agreement for paying the policy by instalments, not the annual premium. Although I 
cant find a document actually showing what the annual premium was, I accept 
Thamesbanks assertion that it was £359.75, including legal expenses cover. And I can see 
the total premium for the policy Thamesbank originally offered was £367.95.
Ive checked the decisions Thamesbank has referred to where it thinks I said the limitation in 
theft cover to theft involving violent and forcible entry was not significant. And I do not agree 
this is what I said. Although, I accept others at our Service may have thought differently. 
However, I have to decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case. 
Also, whether this term is significant or not now has no real bearing on the outcome of this 
complaint. This is because Im upholding it on the basis that I think if Thamesbank had 
fulfilled its obligation to warn Mr and Mrs T that the cover under the policy it was offering 
could be more limited, Mrs T would have checked the policy wording carefully. And I think 
shed have spotted the limitation in theft cover, irrespective of the fact it wasnt included as a 
significant limitation in the policy summary she and Mr T were provided with. And I think its 
this that would have led to Mrs T deciding to buy a policy that didnt have this limitation. 
And  now I know that the policy Thamesbank originally offered Mr and Mrs T in 2014 didnt 
have the same limitation in the theft cover, I think it is more likely than not Mrs T would have 
decided to go ahead with that policy, as it was only £8.20 more. 
I appreciate Thamesbank has said it may have specifically mentioned the limitation in the 
theft cover to Mrs T, but there is nothing compelling in the evidence its provided that 
suggests it would have done. Its not provided a process document or a sales script that 
suggests this would have been the case and most of what its said has been to try and justify 
the fact it didnt need to mention it. So I think its highly unlikely that it did. 
In summary, it remains my view that Thamesbank failed to fulfil its obligation in 2014 when it 
arranged Mr and Mrs Ts home insurance policy to provide sufficient information to enable 
them to make an informed decision. And, it also remains my view that if it had done so by 
including a warning that the cover under the policy it was offering could be more limited, Mrs 
T would have checked it carefully against her previous policy and the policy Thamesbank 
had offered originally. And I think shed have decided to go ahead with the policy it had 
offered originally. This did not have the abovementioned limitation to the theft cover. And  
as I explained in my second provisional decision, I think the insurer would have therefore 
accepted Mr and Mrs Ts claim in full.   
Putting things right
I appreciate Mrs Ts concerns about the current replacement cost of the remainder of her 
stolen jewellery. And I also appreciate Thamesbanks concern about this, bearing in mind 
what the loss adjuster has said about the replacement cost of the items specified under Mr 
and Mrs Ts policy. I have also noted Thamesbanks concerns about proof of ownership. However, not everyone 
has valuations for their jewellery. And, while I appreciate some people do borrow jewellery 
from friends and relatives, I am satisfied that Mrs T has sufficiently proved her ownership of 
the stolen jewellery and substantiated her loss by providing the evidence she has. 
Thamesbank has cited another case where I concluded the consumer hadnt done enough 
to prove ownership, but the facts of this case are different. And, as Ive said, I have to 
consider each case on its own facts and merits.
Ive also noted Thamesbanks comments about the sum insured under Mr and Mrs Ts policy 
not being adequate to cover the replacement cost of all their possessions, including the 
unspecified jewellery. But I remain satisfied from what Mrs T has provided that it was 
adequate overall.  
Bearing these things in mind, and for the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional 
decisions, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me to direct 
Thamesbank to appoint a professional loss adjuster to arrange replacements for the 
jewellery that was stolen from Mrs T and which was not covered by her and Mr Ts insurer. 
And Thamesbank must cover any costs involved, including the cost of the replacement 
jewellery. I think this is preferable to a cash payment, as both parties are clearly concerned 
about the amount payable and I dont have the expertise to decide what the actual 
replacement cost of the jewellery is. 
If its not possible to replace any of the items with a suitable replacement, then Thamesbank 
must pay the cost of replacing the item if it were available at the normal retail cost, without 
discounts, as it would then not be Mrs Ts choice to have a cash settlement for this item. 
Also, I still think Thamesbanks failing caused Mr and Mrs T a significant amount of distress
and inconvenience, in that they had a claim turned down that would otherwise have been
accepted. And this and the fact Mrs T could not replace her jewellery would have caused
them worry and concern. Therefore, it remains my view, as per my provisional
decisions, that Thamesbank should pay Mr and Mrs T an additional £300 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience they experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct Thamesbank Insurance 
Services to appoint a professional loss adjuster to arrange replacements for the jewellery 
Mrs T claimed for that wasnt covered by her insurer. Thamesbank Insurance Services must 
cover all the costs involved, including the cost of the jewellery itself. 
If there would have been an excess payable in respect of Mr and Mrs Ts claim for the 
jewellery not covered by their insurer if theyd been able to claim for this under the policy 
Thamesbank Insurance Services offered them originally in 2014, Mr and Mrs T must pay this 
or it can be deducted from any cash amount due to them. 
If its not possible to replace any of the items with a suitable replacement, then Thamesbank 
Insurance Services must pay the cost of replacing the item at the normal retail cost if it were 
available, without discounts.
Thamesbank Insurance Services must also pay Mr and Mrs T £300 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they experienced. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman