DRN-1636083
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc declined his Section 75 claim when he complained 
about additional charges paid to an airline.
What happened
Mr H booked return flights for his three children to travel with an airline. He says he used a 
webpage for unaccompanied minor travel so that the airline would be aware that the children 
were unaccompanied. His children travelled the outward leg of the journey with no issues but 
when they were checked in for the return flight by Mr Hs wife, she was advised that the 
unaccompanied minor travel form hadnt been completed and that a charge was payable 
before they could travel.
Mr H was contacted by his wife and agreed to pay the additional charges. He says he was 
told by the airline check in assistant that the charge was 200 dollars and assumed that this 
would be charged in local currency (Singapore dollars) and provided his credit card details 
accordingly.
Mr H subsequently discovered that hed been charged over 800 US dollars. Unhappy that 
this wasnt the figure quoted to him by the check in assistant, he complained to the airline. 
The airline refused to issue a refund and said Mr Hs wife had been made aware that the 
charge was 200 US dollars per child and that a receipt had been issued on this basis.
Mr H contacted Santander, who advised him that the airline had provided the service hed 
paid for (the flights) and so a chargeback wasnt applicable. Mr H raised a claim under 
section 75, which Santander declined. It said the airlines terms and conditions stated that 
additional charges could be made for unaccompanied minor travel and that it was Mr Hs 
responsibility to confirm what he was paying for before he entered into the transaction.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that a misrepresentation or a breach of contract had taken place and said that 
Santander had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that the airline hadnt made it clear that the charge was per child. 
He also said that if hed been told that the charge was 200 US dollars per child, he wouldve 
rescheduled the return flight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Santander, I would need to 
be satisfied that theres been a misrepresentation and that Santanders response to the 
claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Hs complaint, 
I take section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean that Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr H pursued a claim for misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is where a supplier makes an untrue statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter into a contract. Ive considered whether the airline made an untrue 
statement of fact about the additional charges for unaccompanied minors.
Mr H says the airline check in assistant told him that the charge was 200 dollars and that he 
assumed this would be in local currency. He says it wasnt made clear to him that the charge 
was per child, and that it was only after hed authorised a payment for what he thought was 
200 Singapore dollars that the check in assistant told his wife that the charge was per child 
and that it would be charged in US dollars.
Theres no recording of the call available so Ive looked at the available information to decide 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the airlines terms and conditions. These say that an unaccompanied minor 
service can be requested by purchasing an adult fare and completing an unaccompanied 
minor form. The terms and conditions also make it clear that additional charges apply for 
unaccompanied minors. 
I can see that Mr H completed the unaccompanied minor form for the outward journey. It 
seems that the form wasnt completed for the return journey. Mr H has said that he couldnt 
be expected to realise that there was a problem, because hed received an email advising 
that he was good to go. I understand the point which Mr H makes here and that he 
interpreted the email to mean that everything was in order. But I think its also possible that 
the email simply served as a confirmation of the booking and the completion of the 
unaccompanied minor form for the outward leg. Im unable to say that the email itself 
amounts to a misrepresentation, because Mr H had already entered into the contract before 
he received the email.
The real issue here is whether the airline check in assistant misrepresented the charges. I 
cant be certain of exactly what was said during the call. But its clear that there was an 
element of assumption on Mr Hs part in relation to what currency he thought the charges 
would be charged in. And because of this, its possible that Mr H also assumed that the 
charges being discussed were total charges as opposed to charges per child. Mr H has said 
that time was running out to pay the charges and clear check in, so its likely that the 
conversation was a little rushed. In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I 
would need to be satisfied that the airline made an untrue statement of fact. So, Id need 
clear evidence that the check in assistant told Mr H that the charges were 200 Singapore 
dollars in total. I dont think theres enough evidence here to show this. 
On the basis of the information Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that there was a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. I dont think Santanders response to the section 75 claim 
was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman