DRN-3163746
The complaint
The executors of Mrs Bs estate have complaint about a home reversion plan that was sold 
to her in 2006 by Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. They dont believe that Mrs B 
understood the implications of what she was doing by selling a 90% share in her home and 
say the amount received was low in comparison to the value of the property. They consider 
there has been a financial loss because the value of the estate is considerably lower than it 
would have been but for the home reversion plan. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs B had taken a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. By 2006 Mr B had passed 
away and all the released funds had been spent. Mrs B had also built-up a considerable 
amount of credit card debt, which meant that she was struggling financially. She wanted to 
release more money from her home, but couldnt with the traditional lifetime mortgage. As 
such, Aviva recommended that she take out a home reversion plan. This meant that Mrs B 
sold 90% of the property value in exchange for a cash lump sum and the legal ownership of 
the property passed to the business that funded the plan (which was not Aviva and I will 
refer to as the funder). Mrs B retained an interest in the property and a lease that allowed 
her to live in it for her lifetime. She was paid around £68,000, from which fees and the 
existing lifetime mortgage had to be paid.
At the time of the 2006 discussions Mrs B initially confirmed that her children were unaware 
of the existing equity release mortgage or her intention of replacing it with the home 
reversion plan. The purpose of the release of further equity was in order to significantly 
reduce her credit card debts so that she could remain in her home and pay the remainder of 
the debts over time. 
Mrs B was made aware that her children might inherit little or nothing from the estate 
because of the plan. It was also detailed that in retaining 10% of the property value, Mrs B 
was ensuring that she would leave something for her children, although it also gave her the 
ability to obtain further funds in the future. Her attitude toward risk was detailed as her being 
willing to accept the risk of a significant reduction in the inheritance she would leave to her 
heirs and beneficiaries. 
The illustration Mrs B was given before she applied for the plan, gave projected values for 
the property at different dates. It then broke down what the funders and Mrs Bs shares of 
the sale value would be. This showed that based on a property value growth of 1% each 
year, after 16 years the property would be worth just under £190,000 and Mrs Bs share 
would be just under £19,000. After 24 years at the same rate of growth, it showed her share 
would be around £20,000.
The offer document sent to Mrs B and her solicitor before the plan was put into force. It 
confirmed the details of the plan and set out the risks associated with it. These included:
Taking out the Norwich Union Home Reversion Plan will reduce the amount available for 
you to leave as an inheritance. We strongly recommend you talk through your plans with 
your family. You must seek independent level advice. 
As part of the sales process, Mrs B had to speak to a solicitor to ensure that she understood 
the plan and its implications for her circumstances and estate. The solicitor raised concerns 
about the advisability of the arrangement, but Mrs B decided to go ahead with the plan. The 
solicitor signed a certificate confirming that he had drawn Mrs Bs attention to the effect on 
her estate and that the detail of how the plan worked in relation to her living in the property 
and what would happen when she no longer did.
Following Mrs Bs death her executors became aware of the home reversion plan and its 
implications on the size of the estate. They complained to the business that funded the plan 
and administered it. They were directed to Aviva as the business responsible for the advice. 
Aviva responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It set out its sales process and a 
summary of the discussions with Mrs B had with its adviser in 2006. Aviva was satisfied that 
the recommendation was suitable for Mrs B. 
The executors didnt accept Avivas response and asked us to consider the complaint. When 
doing so, they highlighted that while Aviva had said that Mrs B had been advised to have a 
family member with her during the sales process, she hadnt spoken to her children about 
the plan and, therefore, had no support during the process. They also highlighted that 
Mrs Bs solicitor had said he was not happy about what she was doing, but he was unable to 
stop her. They remained of the opinion that Mrs B was not capable of understanding what 
she was doing. They repeated their concerns that Mrs B had only received around £68,000 
for a 90% share of a property worth £160,000. They questioned why Mrs B wasnt made to 
have independent advice. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He wasnt 
persuaded that the evidence showed that Mrs B was vulnerable and shouldnt have been 
allowed to take out the plan. In relation to the concern about how much Mrs B received from 
the plan, he explained why lenders paid out a reduced amount for purchasing a percentage 
of a property. He was satisfied that the amount available was made clear to Mrs B before 
she took out the plan, and she chose to accept the offer. He was also satisfied that the 
advice appeared to be reasonable, given Mrs Bs circumstances and that she was made 
aware of the consequences of selling such a large proportion of her home.
The executors didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that they understood 
that the property was Mrs B to do with as she wished, but had she involved her family, they 
might have been able to find alternative options to deal with her financial difficulties in 2006. 
They reiterated that right up until her death Mrs B had told her beneficiaries that the property 
was theirs after her death. The executors also commented about the current regulations and 
that this meant the equivalent of Mrs B plan couldnt now be sold. 
Our investigator considered the executors further comments, but he wasnt persuaded to 
change his conclusions. He explained that regulations and requirements regarding financial 
services products change over time and we couldnt assess Mrs Bs sale based on current 
requirements. 
The executors continued to disagree with the investigator and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I consider the merits of the complaint, I note the executors have commented that they 
were shocked and suffered emotional stress when they discovered the amount of equity in 
the property had been relinquished under the plan. They have also said they have suffered a 
financial loss because there is less to inherit. I would explain at this stage that I can 
understand the concerns the executors and beneficiaries will have about the arrangements if 
they werent unaware of the equity release plan that was in place. However, when 
considering the complaint, I cant take their feelings or upset into account. The complaint is 
being brought on the part of the estate of Mrs B, which is unable to have such feelings, and 
neither the individuals involved are eligible complainants in their own right in relation to the 
matters complained about. 
The executors have stated that Mrs B was vulnerable as she was older, and her late 
husband had mainly dealt with their finances. Some older consumers in this position might 
be considered vulnerable, but it would be inappropriate to assume that was the case on such 
simple and limited facts. The evidence in this case doesnt suggest that Mrs B wasnt able to 
deal with her own affairs or make sound financial decisions. As our investigator pointed out, 
the solicitor she discussed the home reversion plan with could have stopped the sale going 
through, had he been concerned about Mrs Bs understanding or capacity. While he didnt 
think the plan was a good idea, he signed the declaration allowing the plan to go through. In 
doing so he confirmed that Mrs B understood the plan and the effect it would have on her 
estate. As such, I dont consider Aviva acted inappropriately when discussing Mrs Bs needs 
and providing her with advice in 2006.
Mrs B was in a difficult financial position in 2006. She already had a debt management plan 
in place, but rather than continue with it, she decided to release more equity from her home 
to clear her debts. This was something she was entitled to do, and I cant find Aviva was 
wrong to facilitate that decision, as long as Mrs B was aware of what she was doing. I am 
satisfied that she did. The risks of the plan, the main one being the effect on her estate, was 
explained on numerous occasions, including by her solicitor. She chose to accept that risk to 
achieve her objective. 
The solicitor raised concerns about the amount Mrs B would receive for such a large 
proportion of her home. That is also the concern Mrs Bs executors have raised  they dont 
think it was a reasonable amount given the value of the property. I can understand that, but 
the amount offered doesnt appear to be out of line with the proportions of market values I 
have seen paid on previous cases. What the executors have to take account of is that when 
a funder is deciding how much to lend, it is tying up its money for potentially decades without 
receiving any return during that time. It is entitled to make a profit from such arrangements 
and there is the added risk of the value of the property dropping or remaining static. Those 
risks are taken into account when the provider makes its offer. Despite concerns about the 
amount offered being raised with Mrs B, she was satisfied with the amount of money being 
offered to her and accepted the offer. She was entitled to make that decision.
I note that the executors consider that if Mrs B had told her family about her financial 
problems, alternative arrangements could have been made. Thats possible. However, it was 
Mrs Bs decision not to talk to her family about the situation she found herself in and Aviva 
was not in a position to question or overrule that choice.
While I know this will disappoint the executors, I am not persuaded that Aviva mis-sold the 
home reversion plan.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman