DRN-3683793
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly refused to refund a valuation fee 
theyd paid in relation to their buy to let mortgage application when their application was 
declined. 
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H applied to Barclays for a buy to let (BTL) mortgage on a residential property 
in around November 2020. Barclays appointed one of their panel surveyors to carry out a 
valuation. They were satisfied the property provided adequate security for the loan and 
agreed to provide Mrs H and Mr H with the funds they were seeking.
The mortgage offer expired before the loan could complete. Mrs H and Mr H made a fresh 
application and Barclays issued a new offer in around late May 2021. But they declined to 
lend shortly before the loan was due to complete when a second valuation indicated the 
property fell outside their lending criteria. 
Mrs H and Mr H funded the purchase with their own money. They felt Barclays should refund 
the fee for the initial valuation and compensate them for the distress they suffered when the 
loan was turned down. Barclays said theyd been entitled to decline the application in line 
with their lending policy based on the second valuation. 
Since Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy with Barclays response, they brought their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly. Although 
the first valuation hadnt identified issues with the property that were later of concern to 
Barclays, they hadnt made a mistake in making the offer to lend based on the first valuation. 
It was reasonable for Barclays to rely on the valuers advice. The mortgage offer had made 
clear the valuation fee would only be refunded if a valuation hadnt been carried out. 
Barclays had escalated things internally to consider whether they would allow the new 
application to go ahead. And theyd apologised to Mrs H and Mr H for the inconvenience 
theyd suffered and referred them to the first valuers to raise their concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more to put things right. Since Mrs H and Mr H 
didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention here everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by 
that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. I can understand Mrs H 
and Mr H were disappointed with Barclays decision to decline their mortgage application 
when theyd originally offered them a loan, particularly when their related transaction with 
another lender also seems to have run into difficulties. And I appreciate their strength of 
feeling that someone should compensate them. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont 
uphold their complaint against Barclays.
Barclays appointed panel surveyors to carry out valuations on the property. They shared the 
reports with Mrs H and Mr H. The reports made clear Barclays had appointed third party 
surveyors to prepare the valuations for their own purposes in assessing whether the property 
was suitable security for the loan. And the surveyors were acting in accordance with 
guidelines issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. In the circumstances, it 
was reasonable for Barclays to rely on the surveyors professional opinions in reaching their 
lending decisions. Although the valuers reports differed substantively due to an apparent 
oversight by the first surveyor, it wouldnt be fair to hold Barclays responsible for that.
Its unfortunate Mrs H and Mr Hs initial mortgage offer expired, but that wasnt due to any 
error or delay on the part of Barclays. The offer made clear the valuation fee would only be 
refunded if the valuation wasnt carried out. Since the valuation had taken place, Mrs H and 
Mr H were liable to pay it. 
The offer also set out that if completion didnt take place within six months from the date of 
the original valuation, a reassessment of the value would be required, and another fee would 
be payable. If the value of the property was lower than the original valuation, the available 
mortgage could reduce. A second valuation was carried out. So, it was fair for Mrs H and   
Mr H to pay for that. It was unfortunate the second report raised concerns about the security 
the property provided for Barclays loan, the valuation came back as nil and Barclays 
declined to lend. 
I understand Mrs H and Mr H dont challenge the lending decision. But even if they did, I 
think Barclays acted reasonably. They reviewed things internally at more senior level to see 
if the application could go ahead notwithstanding the issues the second valuation raised. 
They considered the risks to themselves and Mrs H and Mr H the property presented in light 
of the second valuation report. And they decided against lending. I wouldnt interfere in what 
was, in the end, a commercial decision for Barclays. But I think they fairly considered the 
application and came to a reasonable view based on the report and their lending criteria. It 
didnt mean their original decision to lend, based on the first report, was any less reasonable 
or that they should refund the initial valuation fee because the second surveyor provided 
different advice. 
Barclays let Mrs H and Mr H know within a reasonable period after the second valuation had 
been carried out, and following their internal review, that they were declining the application. 
Mrs H and Mr H will understandably have been disappointed by Barclays change of mind 
and inconvenienced given completion was due to take place shortly. But I think Barclays 
apology was fair in the circumstances since, overall, they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs H and Mr H will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint. And I dont require Barclays to refund the valuation fee or pay Mrs H 
and Mr H compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman