DRN-2566689
The complaint
Ms R has complained about how Metro Bank PLC (Metro) has handled her request to 
update her address on her current account. She is also unhappy with its communication and 
service.
What happened
Ms R has explained she wanted Metro to change her address details in March 2020 and 
update a credit reference agency of this. This was because she wanted to access her 
pension funds held with another provider before the end of the financial year. Ms R explained 
that she wasnt initially told it could take around six weeks for Metro to action her request. Ms 
R had to contact Metro numerous times about her request and had to provide 
correspondence several times reflecting her new address. So, she says this cause 
unnecessary delays.
Metro said that it was initially unable to pass Ms R through its verification process, which 
was required in order to change her address. But upon her completing security it said it 
updated her address as she had requested. And it says that it followed its usual process of 
updated CRAs on a monthly basis. Metro did acknowledge that it provided Ms R with 
inaccurate information and so it originally offered Ms R £30 for the service it had provided.
When metro submitted its version of events to our service it said that it acknowledges 
incorrect information had been given to Ms R and so in light of this it wished to offer a total 
amount of £50 compensation.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He said that 
Metro should pay Ms R £100 compensation for the incorrect timescales she was given, the 
handling of the various calls and the frustration this had caused. Metro accepted the 
investigators recommendations, but Ms R didnt accept this, she felt this compensation 
wasnt reflective of the distress and inconvenience she had experienced. So, she asked for 
the case to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Request to change address
On the 16 March 2020 Ms R contacted Metro to report her debit card missing and ask for a 
replacement to be sent. Because she didnt have her debit card details available, during a 
subsequent call on 18 March 2020 Ms R initially failed security. 
Ive been provided with evidence to show that on 18 March 2020 Ms R spoke to Metro and 
passed the security verification checks. As such she was able to update her address on 
Metros system. I have seen contact notes from Metro to show this was successful.
Metro has explained that its process is to submit address changes (along with other 
changes) to a credit reference agency in the following month, i.e. in April 2020. I think that on 
balance this is most likely to be when Ms Rs updated address was passed to the credit 
reference agency. In the circumstances of this complaint I dont think that this is 
unreasonable. I say this because this is a typical timescale for credit reference agencies to 
be updated by a financial business such as Metro.
Incorrect information
I am satisfied that Ms R explained to Metro why she needed her address updated promptly 
and to have evidence to show that her address had been changed with the credit reference 
agency. So, I think Metro were aware of the importance of this for Ms R. But Metro has 
acknowledged that its communication could have been better and has admitted it did initially 
provide incorrect information by stating that the credit reference agency could be updated 
instantly. However, having listened to a call on the 26 March 2020, Metro advised Ms R of 
the approximate timescale of mid-April for the credit reference agency to be updated.
So, I have gone on to consider what would have happened if Metro had provided Ms R with 
the correct information initially. I appreciate that Ms R only had a few weeks from when she 
initially contacted Metro in mid-March about updating her address to the end of the financial 
year. And Ms R has said that if shed been told about the length of time it would take for 
Metro to update her address then she would have instead updated her address with the 
pension provider directly to meet the end of financial year deadline. While I accept this 
information could have been provided to Ms R originally, even if it had been provided on 18 
March 2020, I think it was still unlikely the credit reference agency would have been updated 
before the end of the financial year. However, I do note alternative options are outlined on 
the credit reference agency website. And as such, once Ms R was aware on 26 March 2020 
she could have explored the alternative options.
Trouble and upset experienced
Ms R wasnt residing at her registered address, and Metro refused to send correspondence 
to an alternative address. So, I appreciate Ms R would have had to travel between 
addresses. But I think Metros decision to only send correspondence to her newly registered 
address was reasonable and in line with its data protection procedures. After all, this process 
was designed to help protect the security of Ms Rs account. So, I wont be asking Metro to 
do anything further in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
I appreciate the incorrect information provided to Ms R would have caused her a degree of 
trouble and upset as I can see that shes had to make several calls to Metro about this. 
However, I also note that there was alternative options available to Ms R which would have 
enabled her to meet the deadline she required. And as I have already mentioned, even if 
Metro had provided the correct information on 18 March 2020, the CRA wouldnt have been 
updated by metro by the end of the financial year.
Putting things right
 
On the basis of the information provided to me, I think that the increased compensation is 
reasonable. For the reasons I have explained I believe Metro has caused Ms R a degree of 
trouble and upset which warrants financial compensation. With this in mind Metro should compensate Ms R with a further £50 on top of what it has already offered. So, the total 
compensation which should be paid is £100. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay Ms R 
a further £50  meaning the total compensation it will have paid Ms R is £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman