DRN-3015693
The complaint
S, a limited company complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to pay a 
cheque into its account, leading to financial difficulties for S.
S is represented in its complaint by Mrs A, a director.  
What happened
In September 2020, S tried to pay a cheque in foreign currency into its business account. 
RBS agrees that it delayed crediting Ss account more than the 28 days it had promised.
Mrs A says the delay in payment meant that S had cash flow problems. Mrs A was also 
unhappy that RBS paid the funds into Ss sterling business account rather than its foreign 
currency account. This meant S lost some of the payment due to an unnecessary currency 
exchange.  
RBS paid £150 to apologise for the delay but S wants significantly more compensation as it 
had been forced to close its business.
The investigator thought that Ss complaint be upheld. He didnt recommend increasing the 
amount of compensation that RBS should pay but he did think it was reasonable to require 
the bank to pay interest on the delayed payment.
RBS agreed with the investigators recommendation but S didnt respond, so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S paid the cheque in to branch on 17 September 2020. RBS says it would usually process 
foreign cheques within 28 days. But the payment didnt credit Ss account until the end of 
November 2020.
RBS agrees that it made a mistake when it was late crediting Ss account with the cheque 
payment. So, my role is to decide whether the investigators recommendation on how to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.
The investigator says that S had other orders cancelled before bringing its complaint. And 
another payment it expected had to be reduced.  This makes it difficult for me to say that the 
delay by RBS in clearing the cheque was the sole or at least the main reason why S 
experienced financial difficulties. 
The investigator asked Mrs A whether she could give this service further evidence to show 
that the delay led directly to S deciding to close. Mrs A wasnt willing to do this. I can 
understand her reluctance as S is in the process of closing but without this kind of evidence, 
I cant require RBS to pay the level of compensation that S wants. 
I do agree with the investigator that RBS should pay S simple interest on the value of the 
cheque for the delayed time between when it shouldve credited its account and when it 
credited Ss account on 24 November 2020. This seems reasonable to me. RBS says S 
initially paid the cheque in branch on 17 September 2020. It shouldve then credited Ss 
account on 27 October 2020  which was 28 days later.
RBS says that the details on the cheque didnt match the details for Ss account. And S 
didnt provide the account key thats required to deposit money in to a foreign currency 
account. This meant that RBS had to carry out a search which couldnt have returned Ss 
foreign currency account details. So, it had to pay the cheque in to the sterling account. 
I cant reasonably find that RBS made a mistake when it deposited the cheque into the 
sterling account. So, I dont find that RBS should make an additional compensation payment 
for this element of Ss complaint.
Although Mrs A told this service that S was no longer trading, I can see from Companies 
House that the application to strike-off the company has been suspended. This means I 
consider it reasonable to make an award in Ss favour as the company has not yet been 
dissolved.
Putting things right
To put things right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay S simple yearly interest at 8% 
on the value of the cheque from 27 October 2020 up to and including 24 November 2020. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to take the steps outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman