DRN-3861511
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sold back currency which was she was unable to 
collect.
What happened
Mrs R says she was unable to travel on holiday due to ill health in around August 2021. She 
says she had ordered just under €11,000 but Lloyds later sold back the Euros which meant 
she suffered a loss of about £1,391. Mrs R says that was unfair and could not pick up the 
currency due to health reasons. She would like the exchange rate difference refunded.
Lloyds says it told Mrs R that it would extend the time period for holding the currency and 
told her it could only keep it until 30 September 2021. It says it wrote to Mrs R and had no 
choice but to sell the currency which meant, due to exchange rate differences, she received 
a lower refunded figure.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thoughts Lloyds had ordered the Euros in early August 2021 and that Lloyds had 
fairly extended the deadline for picking the currency up. The investigator thought on balance 
due to the level of detail provided by Lloyds staff that phone calls were made to Mrs R and 
letters sent to her about the position.
Mrs R says she was unwell and doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision.
I have no doubt Mrs R was unwell during 2021 as I have seen letters from medical 
practitioners and accept that she was unable to travel on holiday. But Im satisfied that 
Lloyds ordered the currency for Mrs R in good faith and explained to her that it couldnt keep 
the money indefinitely. Im satisfied having looked at Lloyds records that it fairly extended 
that time period on at least two occasions to allow Mrs R time to recover or put alternative 
arrangements in place.
I have not seen the actual letters Lloyds sent to Mrs R, but I have looked at the statements 
its staff have provided about them. Im satisfied that having considered the level of detail 
provided about those letters that they were on balance sent to Mrs R providing her notice 
about the deadline. I also think it likely on balance that Lloyds made calls to her about it 
having considered what Lloyds staff say about them.
As Im satisfied Lloyds clearly explained its position, that it couldnt hold currency indefinitely 
then it follows that I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by selling the currency. I 
appreciate that meant due to exchange rate differences Mrs R received less back than she 
had spent. But that is not something I can fairly hold Lloyds responsible for in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman