DRN-2641959
The complaint
Ms P complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her she wasnt eligible for the 
Recommend A Friend (RAF) incentive and Ms P had problems switching a current account. 
What happened
Ms P switched her bank account to Nationwide. As a result of this she thought that she and 
the recommender would receive £100 each as part of Nationwides RAF incentive. She 
didnt receive the £100 after the switch completed and neither did the recommender. 
Ms P says she wasnt told by Nationwide that she wouldnt be eligible for RAF scheme when 
she applied in branch, so this came as a surprise when she was told this at a later date. She 
said this wasnt covered off in the terms and conditions.
Ms P said shortly after the switch completed she had a number of problems with her direct 
debits, particularly with a mobile phone provider, which she said was Nationwides fault. She 
said the errors revolving around the direct debits caused her a lot of distress and 
inconvenience as Nationwide had cancelled some of her direct debits. Ms P had to speak to 
a number of companies and put arrangements in place quickly to avoid further actions being 
taken against her for not paying some direct debits. Based on these issues she complained 
to Nationwide.
Nationwide said Ms P wasnt eligible for the RAF scheme as she had previously benefitted 
from it and this would exclude her from being part of it again. As she wouldnt have been 
eligible for the bonus neither would the recommender. Nationwide said there had been a 
technical error which resulted in some payment mandates being cancelled shortly after she 
switched current accounts and paid Ms P £75 compensation to reflect any stress or 
inconvenience she had. Ms P wasnt satisfied with the outcome so brought her complaint to 
our service.
Ms P said she wanted Nationwide to honour the RAF payments and to also pay her an 
additional £300 compensation. Our investigator concluded that an additional £100 
compensation would be fair for the inconvenience Ms P suffered. Nationwide maintained the 
£75 they paid was sufficient enough to resolve Ms Ps complaint so asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im satisfied that Ms P wasnt eligible for a £100 bonus from the RAF scheme. I say this as 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the RAF scheme. Section 11 of the terms and 
conditions state: 
The recommended friend is entitled to only one payment even if they switch more than one 
account to us or if more than one recommender recommends them. If the recommended 
friend has received a payment under any other Nationwide Recommend a Friend offer, then 
they are not eligible to receive a payment under this offer.
All parties accept that Ms P received a payment for a current account she switched to 
Nationwide in 2016. So, this would prevent her from receiving another payment under the 
terms of the promotion. Ms P read the terms and conditions as acknowledged to our 
investigator in an email sent on 4 October 2020. As a result of Ms P not being eligible for the 
promotion then the recommender wouldnt be eligible either based on the terms and 
conditions.
Ive considered that Ms P mightnt have been aware she wasnt eligible for the bonus from 
the outset - as branch staff didnt inform her that she wasnt eligible and they completed the 
application for her. But Im not persuaded this merits the RAF bonus to be paid. I say this as 
Ms P was never eligible for the bonus again. So I dont think Nationwide have been unfair for 
applying the terms and conditions of the promotion.
Ms P has said that Nationwide set up three direct debits for the mobile phone provider 
whereas Nationwide have said they dont have any control over how many direct debits the 
mobile phone provider sets up. Ms P provided us a list of her payment arrangements from 
Nationwide which were obtained from the bank she switched from. This shows the mobile 
phone provider only being listed once, not three times so Im satisfied that the multiple direct 
debits were not a result of Nationwides actions.
Nationwide have admitted there was a technical error which led to some of the direct debits 
being cancelled on their end after the switch completed. So all thats left for me to do is 
decide is what level of compensation fairly reflects the impact the errors caused. Im not 
satisfied that the £75 reflects the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of the 
technical error and Ill explain why.
Ms P had issues with a number of direct debits being paid which wasnt her fault. Ms P says 
the impact of the technical error has caused her a lot of stress as her electricity payment 
wasnt collected. As a result of this she says she had to change her payments, make a lump 
sum and go onto a payment plan. I can see why this would be distressing for someone who 
says theyve never missed a payment. It would have caused her inconvenience in having to 
contact each company that couldnt collect the direct debit and make alternative 
arrangements to pay them.
Ms P says that one of the direct debits was needed for her occupation and was cancelled as 
well. I think this caused more stress as this could have had an impact on her occupation if 
this wasnt rectified in a timely manner.
It is evident that when Ms P asked direct questions about the RAF bonus these were initially 
unanswered or the question was deferred by Nationwide staff. This would have been 
frustrating for Ms P. It would be reasonable to expect Nationwide to answer her questions in 
a timely manner regarding why the RAF payment wasnt made. 
To summarise, Im not satisfied that Ms P received a sufficient level of compensation from 
Nationwide for the inconvenience she suffered in having to chase Nationwide for answers 
regarding the RAF bonus, contacting some of her direct debit providers and setting up new 
arrangements with the companies or the impact the technical error will have had on her. So 
it follows I will be asking Nationwide to put things right. 
Putting things right
 Our investigator has suggested a further £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances and I agree this is a reasonable amount for the impact Nationwides error had on Ms P.  
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms P £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman