DRN-4323248
The complaint
The estate of Mr G complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has unfairly declined claims 
made under a private medical insurance policy.
The complaint has been brought to this service by Mrs G, the wife of the late Mr G.
What happened
The late Mr G held a private medical insurance policy which was insured through BUPA. 
Tragically, the late Mr G was diagnosed with a terminal condition and decided that he 
wanted to spend his remaining time at home. Mrs G became his primary carer with support 
from Macmillan nurses until he sadly passed away.
Mrs G has said that in the time prior to his death, the late Mr G had contacted BUPA in order 
to sort out his affairs. She says he was told that his policy provided a £1000 benefit which 
was designed to assist with funeral costs and that he could claim £100 per night for NHS 
hospital stays during the time he received nursing at home.
A claim was submitted to BUPA for payment of these benefits, but it rejected the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs G complained to BUPA. It said that the policy did cover costs 
incurred for nursing care at home, but as it appeared no costs for nursing care were 
charged, it couldnt make any payment. And in relation to the funeral benefit, it said this 
wasnt included within the policy cover and, having checked all recent calls if couldnt locate 
any conversation where funeral care was discussed. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt 
find that BUPA had declined the claim unfairly. She found that the nursing care cover section 
within the policy provided cover for the cost of home nursing following a private inpatient 
stay. As Mrs G provided the majority of the care with the assistance of Macmillan nurses, 
there was no cover under the policy. Our investigator said that the policy didnt include any 
cover for funeral costs and so she couldnt say BUPA had acted incorrectly when declining 
the claim.
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having noted the circumstances, I would like to take this opportunity to offer my sincere 
condolences to Mrs G on her loss. I appreciate just how difficult a time this must have been 
for her and, to not receive the financial support she believed she was entitled to would have 
not made this any easier. However, despite my natural sympathies for her situation, I wont 
be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
NHS cash benefit
Mrs G says BUPA told her husband that he would receive a benefit for nursing care at home. 
Under Benefit 7 of the policy wording, cover is provided for home nursing. The policy says 
the following:
We pay for home nursing immediately following private in-patient treatment if all the 
following criteria apply:
the home nursing:
 is for eligible treatment
 is needed for medical reasons ie not domestic or social reasons
 is necessary ie without it you would have to remain in the recognised facility
 starts immediately after you leave the recognised facility
 is provided by a nurse in your own home, and
 is carried out under the supervision of your consultant.
You must have our written confirmation before the treatment starts that the above criteria 
have been met and we need full clinical details from your consultant before we can 
determine this.
We do not pay for home nursing provided by a community psychiatric nurse.
From reading this section of the policy, it is clear that BUPA will cover the cost of nursing at 
home if this is provided following private inpatient care and is provided by a nurse in the 
home. In this particular instance, it was Mrs G who carried out the majority of the nursing 
duties herself, with assistance from Macmillan nurses. So, it doesnt appear that there are 
any private nursing costs to consider, so this section wouldnt apply. I understand Mrs G has 
suffered loss of earnings during the time she was caring for her husband, but this isnt 
something that the policy provides cover for.
Section CB6.2 of the policy provides a cash benefit for each day that the policyholder 
receives treatment for cancer under the NHS which could have been covered privately. And 
it does mention treatment at home. But this benefit is specifically for the treatment of cancer 
 it would appear from the information provided that Mr G wasnt receiving such treatment 
but end of life care, so this wouldnt apply.
Based on what Ive seen and read in the policy, there isnt cover for Mrs Gs loss of earnings 
or a cash benefit available for the time she was caring for her husband at home. So Im 
satisfied that BUPAs decision to decline this claim is fair and reasonable.
Cash payment for funeral costs
Mrs G has also told us that Mr G was told by BUPA that a claim could be made for £1000 
towards funeral costs. Mrs G has provided a screen shot that her husband passed to her 
which refers to this funeral grant. BUPA has said that that there is no cover under the policy 
for funeral costs.
Ive taken this opportunity to fully review the policy terms and conditions booklet. This is a 
private medical insurance cover and there isnt any mention of funeral costs being covered. 
So, Im persuaded that Mr Gs policy didnt include any benefit for such expenses. 
Mrs G said that her husband told her he had been given this information by BUPA. BUPA 
has looked through its call records with Mr G and has said that it couldnt locate any calls 
where funeral costs were discussed. Ive thought about this matter carefully. While I dont have any reason to doubt what Mrs G 
has been told by her late husband, in order for me to uphold this complaint I would need 
evidence of a policy being in force which provides cover for such events. And, as mentioned 
previously, the private medical insurance policy Mr G had with BUPA doesnt include such 
cover. 
The screenshot Mrs G has provided is a small excerpt from what would appear to be a policy 
booklet or similar document  but this doesnt prove Mr G had this particular cover. BUPA 
has reviewed the calls it had with Mr G and says it cannot find any conversations in which 
funeral care has been discussed. While I know this will be disappointing for Mrs G, without 
evidence of a valid policy being in existence, Im not persuaded that BUPA has acted 
unreasonably when declining this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman