DRN-4032861
The complaint
Mr P and Mr G complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on 
a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P or his mother had a small hatchback car, first registered in about 2018. For the year 
from mid-August 2021, Mr P had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. Mr P was the 
policyholder. His mother and his partner Mr G were named drivers.
The policy was branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the 
insurer that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Any claim for damage (except to a windscreen) was subject to an excess of £95.00.
According to the policy schedule, Mr P had two years no-claims discount (NCD). It wasnt 
a protected NCD. But a feature of the policy was an Uninsured Driver Promise that Mr P 
wouldnt lose his NCD or pay any excess if  without Mr Ps fault - his car was hit by an 
uninsured driver.
Unfortunately, in early February 2022, Mr Ps car sustained cosmetic damage in an incident 
with another vehicle. That other vehicle had no insurance recorded on the motor insurance 
database. Its driver didnt stop at the scene to exchange contact details and remained 
unidentified.
Advantage met Mr Ps claim and waived the excess.
Much of the complaint is about the acts or omissions of the intermediary in responding to the 
claim on behalf of Advantage. Insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for such acts or 
omissions, I may refer to them as acts or omissions of Advantage.
For the year from mid-August 2022, Mr P says he took out a new policy.
In late January 2023, Advantage said that it would record a fault claim against Mr P   and 
he had lost his NCD. Mr P complained about that.
By a final response dated early February 2023, Advantage turned down the complaint. It 
said that the uninsured driver promise only applied if Advantage had identified the driver.
Mr G and Mr P brought their complaint to us straight away.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Advantage had fairly logged the claim as fault on the CUE (Claims Underwriting Exchange) 
database. But she thought that it was not fair or reasonable to remove the NCD. She 
recommended that Advantage should:
1. reinstate the NCD and provide an updated copy of the NCD certificate to present to 
the new insurer; and
2. compensate Mr G and Mr P £100.00 for the inconvenience the error has caused to 
them.
Mr P agreed with the investigators opinion.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The promise only applied once the driver was identified.
There are instances where the driver can be insured where the vehicle isnt on the 
Motor Insurance Database  such as trade insurance on individuals and 
organisations rather than on the specific vehicle. 
Failing to stop could be for more reasons than just being uninsured  it could be the 
vehicle was taken without consent, the driver was under the influence, the driver was 
in possession of illegal items in the vehicle etc. 
Mr Ps version of events was that he was driving along the road when the third 
partys vehicle changed lanes into his path. Without CCTV or witnesses, there would 
be no evidence to prove who changed lanes. 
The fact that the driver didnt stop would suggest they wouldnt assume responsibility 
for the accident, and this would have likely been split liability, if the driver were 
identified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where an insurer has made an outlay on a policyholders claim, its common practice for that 
insurer to record the claim as a fault claim against the policyholder unless and until the 
insurer has recovered its outlay in full, typically from a third partys insurer. So a fault claim 
doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was responsible for causing the damage. 
That practice is reflected in the policy terms (Section 9). Advantage couldnt identify or 
pursue the third party or their insurer. So Mr P has rightly accepted that Advantage didnt act 
unfairly by recording a fault claim against him.
So I turn to the remaining issue of the uninsured driver promise. That was in the policy 
booklet as follows:
Section 10
Uninsured driver promise 
Your Insurer promises that if youre involved in an accident that isnt your fault and 
the driver of the vehicle that hits you doesnt have motor insurance: 
 You wont lose your no claims discount 
 You wont have to pay any Excess/es. 
To benefit from this promise you must send us the make, model and 
registration number of the vehicle that caused damage to your Car and, when 
possible, tell us the other drivers name and address.
When you make a claim, you may initially have to pay your Excess/es. If 
investigations are still taking place when your renewal is due, you may lose your no claims discount temporarily, as explained above. Once your Insurer has confirmed 
the accident was the fault of an identified uninsured driver, your Insurer will refund 
your Excess, restore your no claims discount and refund any extra premium you 
have paid.
The bold type was in the policy booklet. 
The intermediary has placed emphasis on the following section and in particular the last 
sentence. So Ive added the underlining. I accept that the words Ive underlined were a 
condition that Advantage had confirmed that the accident was the fault of an identified 
uninsured driver.
However, the context includes the fact that it is a criminal offence to drive a vehicle on a road 
without third party insurance. So an uninsured driver is less likely than others to want to be 
identified. 
So  in an Uninsured Driver Promise - I regard the condition of identification as an onerous 
or at least a significant term.
Therefore Ive thought about whether the underlined words were sufficiently clear in the 
policy documents. 
The words in bold type suggest that the policyholder will benefit from the promise if he tells 
Advantage the details of the third partys vehicle and when possible the name and address 
of the driver.
Also, the Insurance Policy information Document included the following summary:
Uninsured driver promise: you wont lose your no claims discount or pay any excess 
if the accident wasnt your fault
So Im not satisfied that the condition of identification was sufficiently clear. 
I accept that its possible that the third party driver had third party cover on a policy not 
recorded against the vehicle he was driving. I also accept that the driver may have had other 
reasons for not stopping.  
However, I keep in mind that the vehicle wasnt insured, and the driver didnt stop. So I find it 
more likely than not that the driver was uninsured and was at fault for the accident. 
In my view, an uninsured driver who didnt stop is unlikely to have credibility as a witness if, 
for example, they later dispute liability for the accident.
I regard it as highly unfair that Advantage should cast doubt on Mr Ps version of events in 
the absence of any version of events from the third party driver. If that driver had been 
identified, they were unlikely to give a credible version of events that Mr P had been at fault.
Also, an uninsured driver will often not have sufficient financial means to make it worthwhile 
for an insurer to seek to pursue them for recovery of its outlay. 
So I dont consider it likely that the lack of identification of the driver caused any prejudice to 
Advantage.For all these reasons, I dont find it fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely on the condition 
of identification in declining to make sure that Mr P didnt lose his NCD. By unfairly reducing 
his NCD  its likely that Advantage caused him a higher premium.
Also, I dont doubt that Advantage caused Mr P and Mr G upset that it had not honoured its 
promise   and caused them extra trouble in looking for affordable insurance.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what to direct Advantage to do to try to put things right. 
I find it fair enough to direct Advantage to write a letter to Mr P (which he may show to 
current and future insurers) saying that  as at August 2022  he had three years NCD.
Also, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr P, and jointly Mr G, £100.00 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr P (which he may show to current and future insurers) saying that  
as at the expiry of its policy in August 2022  he had three years NCD; and
2. pay Mr P, and jointly Mr G, £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman