DRN-2304676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain they were 
mis-sold three Savings Programmes by a predecessor of Sanlam Financial Services UK 
Limited.
 
What happened
In 1990 Mr and Mrs B were recommended the three Programmes as savings vehicles for 
their children, who were aged 5, 3 and 1 at the time. Two Programmes were written in Mr Bs 
name, the third in Mrs Bs name. The premiums were £50 per month for each of the three 
Programmes. 
The CMC complained to Sanlam on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf. It said that because they had 
been committing a total of £150 per month to the three Savings Programmes, they couldve 
afforded to have taken out one or more of the business Investment Programmes, which 
were more cost effective. They were also more suitable for shorter-term savings, which 
would have been more appropriate given the Programmes were intended for the benefit of 
the children. 
Sanlam didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that it had been Mr and Mrs Bs specific wish to 
have three separate savings vehicles, one for each child. It said that as the minimum 
monthly premium for an Investment Programme had been £70 there wouldve been no way 
to have split the monthly total of £150 fairly and flexibly for the three children. 
In respect of the term of the Programmes, it said that although they were written in Mr and 
Mrs Bs names to age 65, their full benefit would have been achieved after approximately 20 
- 25 years, making them appropriate given the ages of the children at the outset. 
Sanlam also noted that while the CMC had, in the course of bringing the complaint, said that 
the Savings Programmes had been intended to provide for the childrens education, there 
was nothing to suggest that this had been the case at the point of sale and the Programmes 
were still in place.  
The CMC referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Sanlam and for broadly the same reasons. 
The CMC responded to say, in brief:
The Savings Programmes were sold purely based on the higher level of commission 
earned.
While Mr and Mrs B may have asked for three separate savings vehicles, it was the 
responsibility of the adviser to recommend the most suitable cost-effective way of 
achieving the overall objective. 
The terms of the Programmes were too long  the children wouldve been into their 
30s by the time they achieved a meaningful return.
Mr and Mrs B werent made aware of all the options, but rather were steered towards 
the high cost, high commission option. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He asked for further comment from Sanlam, which said, in brief:
Mr and Mrs B had clearly wanted three savings vehicles and the option that the CMC 
was suggesting couldnt have provided the flexibility of three separate Programmes  
flexibility that wouldve been needed given the different ages of the children. 
The Programmes wouldve achieved effective returns when the children were in their 
20s and potentially looking to get married, or to buy a property, so they wouldve 
been useful nest eggs. 
Thered been no mention of an intention for the Programmes to fund the childrens 
education in the original fact find, nor in the questionnaire completed as part of the 
complaint investigation 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
I appreciate the point made by the CMC concerning the cost efficiency of the Investment 
Programme offered by Sanlams predecessor. I note that theres no record of any discussion 
about alternatives to the Savings Programmes, although this doesnt necessarily mean that 
none took place. 
But, in any event, I think in the specific circumstances of this complaint, where there was a 
clear desire on the part of Mr and Mrs B to have three individual Programmes for their three 
children, it was reasonable to recommend the Savings Programmes. Any alternative solution 
using the Investment Programmes wouldve been less flexible in terms of dividing equally 
between the children. And while that wouldnt have been an insurmountable problem, I can 
understand why three separate Programmes mightve been preferable and seen as more 
straightforward.
In respect of the terms of the Programmes, as theres nothing to support the contention that 
they were intended to be used for funding further education, I dont think the longer-term 
nature rendered them unsuitable. All three children wouldve been in their mid to late 20s 
when the Programmes reached their most beneficial, at which time the money would have 
come in very useful for house purchases, etc.
In summary, Im satisfied that the Savings Programmes were suitable recommendations 
given the circumstances of the sales.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman