DRN-4018334
The complaint
Miss C and Mr T were business partners. Their complaint, brought primarily by Mr T, is that 
Lloyds Bank PLC issued a Bounce Back Loan in their joint names even though Mr T is no 
longer involved in the business.
What happened
Miss C and Mr T ran a business together and held a bank account in their joint names with 
Lloyds.
In or around October 2019, Mr T ceased to have any involvement with the business and 
Miss C has operated it as a sole tradership since then. But the bank account with Lloyds has 
remained in their joint names.
In November 2020, Miss C applied to Lloyds for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 to support 
the business through the coronavirus pandemic. As she used the joint account details to 
complete the application, the loan agreement was issued to Miss C and Mr T. Miss C signed 
and returned the agreement, and the loan was drawn down. 
Mr T subsequently discovered that his name was on the Bounce Back Loan agreement, 
meaning he was jointly liable with Miss C for its repayment and information about the loan 
would also be recorded on his credit file. He complained to Lloyds, saying in summary that:
Hed asked the bank to remove him from the joint account after exiting the 
partnership back in 2019, which evidently hadnt been done and had given rise to the 
situation he now found himself in; and
Hed not consented to the loan being taken out in his name, and hadnt signed any 
paperwork to that effect  so he was concerned that his signature had been forged, 
and didnt think it was fair that he was being held liable for the debt.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It couldnt find any record of a request to remove Mr T 
from the account  which it said wouldnt have been possible anyway, as it would instead 
have needed to open a new account in Miss Cs sole name. With regard to the Bounce Back 
Loan, the bank said that Miss C had authorised the loan on behalf of the partnership. No 
signatures were needed as it was an online process, so none had been forged. It suggested 
that Mr T discuss the situation with Miss C, or take legal action.
Mr T remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. Miss C also gave her consent for us 
to look into things, being equally willing to take sole responsibility for the business accounts.
Our investigator asked Lloyds if it could novate the Bounce Back Loan to Miss C (i.e. replace 
the existing loan agreement with one in Miss Cs sole name). But the bank told us that this 
wasnt possible under rules set by the Loan Scheme administrator, the British Business 
Bank. It said the position was under review.
On the basis that novation wasnt possible, our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything in response to the complaint. She couldnt find any documentary evidence to 
support Mr Ts recollection of a request to be removed from the account and so didnt think 
the bank had made an error in this respect. And while accepting that Mr T may not have 
been party to the Bounce Back Loan application, she didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong in approving the request as, in short, it had been entitled to act on Miss Cs authority.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I intended to uphold Miss C and 
Mr Ts complaint. I said:
I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in providing the Bounce Back Loan in the joint 
names of Miss C and Mr T. I say this because:
There is nothing to substantiate Mr Ts claim that he told Lloyds hed exited the 
partnership and logged a written request to be removed from the joint bank 
account in 2019. From what Ive seen, Lloyds has conducted a thorough review 
of its records in light of Mr Ts recollections  but has been unable to find 
anything to corroborate them.
Lloyds was entitled to accept Miss Cs application in good faith and had no cause 
to question either that the partnership had ceased to exist or that Mr T hadnt 
consented to the loan. Under the Bounce Back Loan application process  which 
was largely automated in order to facilitate the aim of providing businesses with 
financial support quickly  lenders were allowed to accept the authority of one 
partner or director on behalf of the applicant business. Miss C provided Lloyds 
with the requisite authority.
However, based on what Ive seen so far I think Lloyds couldve done more to help once 
it became aware that Mr T was no longer involved in the partnership (and hadnt been at 
the time the loan was granted), and that the loan was taken out without his consent.
There appears to be no dispute that Miss C has operated the business as a sole trader 
since late 2019. Nor is there any dispute that Mr T didnt agree to the Bounce Back Loan 
being taken out in his name, or any suggestion that he has derived any benefit from it. 
The loan has been used by Miss C to support the business that she runs as a sole 
trader, and I understand that she is happy to accept sole responsibility for repaying it. So 
in these circumstances, it is hard to see any justification for the bank continuing to hold 
Mr T liable for the debt.
Lloyds position to date has been that it isnt possible under the Loan Scheme rules to 
novate the loan to Miss C. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Its declined to 
evidence that position by showing us the rules or guidance on which it is relying. On its 
website, the British Business Bank (BBB)  who set the rules  says that it is possible 
for an original borrower to exit an agreement in circumstances such as these:
Where an original borrower wishes to exit a Bounce Back Loan 
Agreement, this is permitted in certain circumstances and subject to 
conditions (such as when a partner wishes to exit a business partnership 
 provided that the remaining original partner(s) to the Bounce Back 
Loan Agreement agree to the exit and remain liable for the loan).Lloyds hasnt put forward any other reasons as to why it cannot or should not novate the 
Bounce Back Loan to Miss C, other than referring to some concerns over transferring a 
loan to a limited company that dont apply here. So Im intending to require that it do so 
now. I think it should also instruct the removal of any information recorded about the loan 
on Mr Ts credit file. 
I understand that the position may not always have been as clear-cut, with the position 
having been under review in the past. At the same time, lenders have  in my 
experience  been able to novate loans without issue over the period that this complaint 
has been ongoing. So I think Lloyds couldve offered to resolve things through novation 
earlier, and certainly by the time of our requests. With that in mind, Im also intending to 
require Lloyds to pay compensation of £150 to Mr T for the avoidable upset and 
inconvenience hes been caused in having to pursue the matter to these lengths in order 
to obtain a fair resolution. 
While maintaining that he had notified Lloyds of his departure from the partnership, Mr T said 
he was happy with my provisional decision. Lloyds said it had nothing further to add. Miss C 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information or evidence to consider in light of my 
provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Novate the Bounce Back Loan agreement to Miss C; and
Pay Mr T compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman