DRN-1913897
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) have unfairly closed her current account. This 
has caused her inconvenience in needing to open a new account at short notice. Shes also 
concerned that it may have recorded something on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted TSB in March 2020 to request chargebacks on two debit cards for 
payments made in respect of a holiday. TSB says it didnt think these would be successful. 
So, it didnt recredit Mrs Ms account immediately but did agree to request the chargeback 
through VISA. In April 2020 TSB confirmed the chargebacks had been unsuccessful. Mrs M 
says she thought TSB was being difficult and was failing to understand the issue. Mrs M 
called her branch, who she had dealt with for many years. She spoke to a member of staff 
before being transferred to the new branch manager (BM), who Mrs M didnt know.
There isnt a recording of the call and those that followed and what happened is disputed. 
Mrs M says the BM was immediately unhelpful and voices were slightly raised before the 
BM said he wasnt prepared to talk any further and hung up. 
The BM says he asked Mrs M to clarify the circumstances regarding the chargeback, which 
she did. As the chargeback had been declined, he said there was nothing more he could do. 
He says Mrs M wouldnt accept this wanting him to call the department and get the money 
refunded. He says he explained he couldnt do this if the refund had been declined. 
He says Mrs M began shouting and wouldnt listen to anything he said. He says Mrs M told 
him he wasnt doing his job. He says he asked Mrs M to lower her voice or he would hang 
up. But says she continued shouting, so he ended the call. 
Mrs M called back several times and there is disagreement over how often, but it is agreed 
each call was ended by the BM hanging up. Both say that in the final call Mrs M said shed 
close the account and Mrs M says the BM replied she could do this by calling into the 
branch. Mrs M says she had never been spoken to like that before by TSB, but that she was 
not abusive to the BM.
Mrs M complained about the chargeback and the BM, whom she said was patronising. The 
BM filed an internal report. A few days later Mrs M received a letter from TSB saying it was 
closing her account due to abusive behaviour towards a member of staff. It gave 30 days 
notice. Mrs M says she was very upset by this. She contacted TSB via social media about 
the closure and was frustrated by replies saying her comments would be passed on rather 
than being dealt with immediately. 
TSB issued a final response letter rejecting her complaints about the chargeback, the phone 
calls and the account closure. It said there was no error regarding the chargeback request 
and set out details to explain this. It said the call had been terminated by the BM due to Mrs 
M being verbally abusive. It said under the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account, it 
could close it with immediate effect, but had given 30 days notice in this case.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. While our investigator was looking into it, Mrs M 
was able to resolve the issue of the holiday with the merchant to her satisfaction. She also 
successfully opened an account with another bank. So, with Mrs Ms agreement our 
investigator only considered the issue of the account closure. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said as the calls werent recorded it wasnt possible to know exactly what happened. He 
said banks can chose whether to continue to offer accounts to customers or not and the 
T&Cs did allow TSB to close accounts. By providing 30 days notice of closure, it had given 
her time to make alternative arrangements. He said as TSB had acted in accordance with 
the T&Cs in closing the account it hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mrs M said she hadnt been abusive and only expressed frustration. She said as there was 
no proof either way it was unreasonable of our service to accept the BMs version of events. 
She said, that TSB could throw out any customer at any time it chose cannot be a protocol 
in this day and age. And it was shocking to not punish TSB. As Mrs M doesnt agree it has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know how strongly Mrs M feels about 
what has happened, so Ill explain why.
Mrs M mentioned the possible impact on her credit file from the closure. I asked TSB about 
this and it has confirmed that no adverse reports were made as a result of the closure so 
there shouldnt have been any impact here. 
Our role is that of an independent dispute resolution service. It isnt to punish a business 
even if we think it is acted unfairly, although we can award compensation for loss, material 
distress or inconvenience if it has. 
Clearly this was a stressful time for Mrs M with her concern over the chargeback. Both Mrs 
M and TSB feel strongly that they are in the right and there isnt any independent proof or 
evidence of what happened. But the calls rapidly became heated enough for both to report it 
the same day, and for TSB to then take the action it did. Recollections of heated exchanges 
do tend to differ, and I can understand why Mrs M kept calling back and why the BM kept 
ending the calls. But as Mrs M was able to make banking arrangements elsewhere the 
situation has effectively been resolved. 
Its not for me to replace TSBs judgment with my own  rather its for me to look at how TSB 
went about things. As Mrs M is aware the BM requested the account be closed but the 
ultimate decision was made by a senior manager who wasnt personally involved. And TSB 
maintains it made the correct decision. 
Ultimately, like any business, TSB can decide whether it wants to offer services to a 
customer or not, but it must be fair and not discriminate. It can close existing accounts if it 
decides to, as it did here. The T&Cs say accounts can be closed without giving a reason and 
in certain situations, without notice, but TSB didnt do that in this case. 
I have considered whether the process TSB followed once it decided to close the account 
was fair and reasonable. I think it was. It gave 30 days notice, allowing Mrs M a reasonable 
period to make alternative banking arrangements, which she was able to do.  So, while I understand Mrs Ms frustration, TSB was within its rights to close the account if it 
wished and it did provide a reasonable period of notice. So, it hasnt acted unreasonably in 
the manner of closure. Taking everything together I dont think TSB needs to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman