DRN-2341208
The complaint
Mr O complained his car insurance provider, Hastings Insurance Services Limited, trading as 
Hastings Direct renewed his car insurance policy automatically without his consent.  
What happened
Mr O took out a car insurance policy with Hastings Direct however when he came to renew it 
the premium had increased by over £400. Because of this Mr O says he arranged car 
insurance with an alternative insurance provider. However, Mr Os policy was set up to 
renew automatically after 12 months. Hastings sent Mr O a letter in month 11 of his policy 
letting him know his policy would renew in one month with a new total price of £1,187.66 
compared to the £731.98 he had previously paid. This would work out at a monthly price of 
£98.97. 
Hastings asked Mr O to check the cover still suited his needs and advised that he could 
consider getting cover elsewhere. The letter also stated that unless Mr O told Hastings 
otherwise his policy would automatically renew, and new insurance documents would be 
uploaded to his online account. The letter provided a phone number to call if Mr O didnt 
want his policy to automatically renew or if he would like to discuss or change any details. I 
can also see that Hastings sent this information to Mr O in an email before his renewal took 
place as well where they asked him to log into his account (to which a link was provided) and 
check his cover and update any details which had changed.
Mr O did contact Hastings to cancel his policy after the first payment for the second year was 
taken but he did this after the 14-day cooling off period so there was an outstanding amount 
to pay. In its final response letter, Hastings said it wouldnt uphold Mr Os complaint as the 
correct process had been followed so Mr O complained to us. 
Hastings has provided a copy of the insurance documentation it sent to Mr O when he took 
out the original policy. It states that they automatically renew most policies and if a 
policyholder wishes to opt out of the automatic renewal process they need to contact the 
customer services team on the phone number provided. I have also seen the renewal 
documentation email sent to Mr O letting him know his policy had been renewed and 
including a link to his online account with Hastings.
Three weeks after this Mr O contacted Hastings saying he hadnt consented to his policy 
being renewed. Hastings said in order to backdate the cancellation they needed to see 
evidence Mr O had other insurance  in  place, otherwise there would be a cost to cancel the 
policy. However Mr O didnt share this information with Hastings.
Hastings told us they turned off the auto renewal for the next year and searched for any 
record of other insurance on Mr Os vehicle. As it couldnt find proof of other insurance 
Hastings didnt cancel the policy to avoid Mr O driving uninsured. Hastings provided 
screenshots of two searches it did on the Motor Insurance Database. 
Mr O cancelled the Direct Debit to Hastings. Hastings sent Mr O a number of letters and 
emails for some weeks asking him to arrange for either a new direct debit to be set-up or for 
the full balance to be paid. As new payment details werent received by Hastings, it 
cancelled the policy as advised. On cancellation of the policy Hastings sent a letter and 
email confirming this to Mr O with a breakdown of charges showing there was an 
outstanding balance of £114.88.
Mr O was later informed, by further letters and emails from Hastings that if they didnt 
receive the outstanding debt it would be passed to a debt collection agency, which would 
incur a fee of  £25.
Mr O says he was unable to log into his online account with Hastings and I can see he was 
sent a password reset link however I havent seen any further evidence of Mr O being 
unable to access his online account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint however Mr O disagreed with this and asked 
for his case to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I agree with our investigator and Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint and Ill explain 
my reasons.
Mr Os policy was set up to automatically renew. He was informed of this in the policy 
documents he received when he took the policy out. He was also informed his policy was 
going to automatically renew a month before it happened and was contacted when the policy 
had renewed letting him know it had happened. It was open to Mr O to remove the automatic 
renewal, but he didnt do so.
When Mr O did contact Hastings they told him they would cancel and backdate the policy so 
that he could have a refund of the premium if he provided proof of insurance elsewhere, but 
Mr O has not done this. 
I cannot see that Hastings have acted unfairly and while I can see this might be a 
disappointing decision for Mr O I think it is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Os complaint is not 
upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman