DRN-3346875
The complaint
Ms T and Mr T are unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) did 
not reimburse them the money they lost after falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr T was looking for investment opportunities online with a view to invest a sum of money he 
had following the sale of his business. Mr T carried out online research looking for 
investments with higher interest rates. He used a comparison website and left his details. 
Mr T has told us a few days later he was contacted by two firms. Mr T wasnt impressed by 
the service of one of the firms and decided to proceed with the firm Ill refer to as firm A. Mr T 
was told about two corporate bonds available  one which was paying interest at 9.625% 
and the other which was paying interest at 11.5%. 
The fraudsters sent literature to Mr T and they were also asked to provide a copy of a utility 
bill and passports to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations. They were also sent 
contracts to sign. Mr T say after having carried out some online research they felt happy to 
invest. Mr T agreed to invest £85,000 for himself and another £85,000 for his wife in the 
bond paying 9.625%. 
Mr T was asked to make an initial payment, which he sent on 27 March 2020 from a sole 
account he holds with another bank. He made this payment to the beneficiary details he was 
given, which he was told was in the name of firm A. Mr T then made numerous further 
payments between 30 March 2020 and 10 April 2020. These payments were made to a 
different payee. 
Mr T decided to invest further funds into a bond in his name paying interest at 11.5%. Three 
payments totalling £75,000 were paid from Ms T and Mr Ts joint account with Halifax, while 
the remaining amount was paid from Mr Ts sole account. 
It is important to note that the other payments Mr T made from his sole account with a 
different bank, prior to the payments dealt with in this decision, are being considered under a 
separate case with our service. Whilst the payments were made as part of the same scam, 
as they were made from an account Mr T held with another bank, I will not be commenting 
specifically on them within this decision. I have simply referred to the other payments for the 
purposes of describing the background. Therefore, this decision will focus on the three 
payments made from Ms T and Mr Ts joint account with Halifax on 30 March 2020, 
31 March 2020 and 1 April 2020 to firm A. 
Mr T says the fraudsters told him hed be able to view the investments online and that theyd 
be in touch to arrange this. When Mr T hadnt received any contact by 21 July 2020, he says 
he went online and found a warning on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website which 
indicated the firm had been cloned. This warning had been posted on 16 April 2020. 
Mr T contacted Halifax on 22 July 2020 to report the scam. Halifax having considered the 
standards expected of it as the sending bank, considered it had met its requirements under 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is 
a signatory. It added that on each payment a warning was provided which it said alerted 
Ms T and Mr T to these types of scams. Halifax added that when making the payments a 
warning was also provided under the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) result which said the 
name didnt match that of the receiving account. Halifax say that a search of the firm showed 
that its authorisation was removed on 12 March 2020 which was before they made the 
payments. Halifax also felt the interest rates offered werent realistic or comparable to the 
market at the time which it feels shouldve caused them concern. Given the warnings 
provided, Halifax say Ms T and Mr T didnt complete sufficient checks on the firm or 
investment to have a reasonable basis to believe they were genuine and so no refund was 
due. 
Ms T and Mr T disagreed with Halifax and referred their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
brief, she wasnt satisfied Halifax had established that Ms T and Mr T had ignored an 
effective warning. However, she also didnt think theyd met their requisite level of care under 
the CRM Code. On this basis, she recommended Halifax reimburse Ms T and Mr T 50% of 
their loss under the provisions of the CRM Code, along with paying interest on 50% of the 
loss at 8% simple per year.  
Ms T and Mr T accepted the investigators view, but Halifax responded to say it disagreed. 
In short, Halifax says Ms T and Mr T are liable for their loss as they didnt complete the due 
diligence required before making the payments they did. Halifax reiterated that Mr T ignored 
multiple warnings the bank provided, such as no match CoP results and an Account at Risk 
(AAR) warning. It added that it was not convinced, had it shown the warnings within its Fraud 
Hub page on the initial payments page, that Mr T wouldve taken heed of them. So, it 
maintains that Ms T and Mr T are liable for their loss. 
Halifax also considers the ruling in Philipp v Barclays Bank to be relevant to this case  a 
court decision that the Quincecare duty should not apply where the transfer is properly and 
lawfully authorised by the customer. Halifax in its response to our investigators view has 
referred to intervention  commenting that the payments Ms T and Mr T made were aligned 
to the normal spending pattern. Therefore, Halifax says there was no reason to pick up the 
scam payments as unusual. And that it had no obligation to provide a warning, given the 
transactions are within usual spending. 
After considering Halifaxs response, our investigators view remained the same - for largely 
the same reasons as shed previously explained. She did acknowledge the recent Phillip v 
Barclays Bank judgement where the judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty. 
Whilst she didnt suggest the Quincecare duty applied to this case, she acknowledged that 
this service had a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case  taking into account not just the law but also the 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what we consider to have 
been good practice at the time. This includes the CRM Code, which Halifax is signed up to. 
Our investigator clarified that shed not argued Halifax ought to have contacted Ms T and 
Mr T about the payments and asked questions about them. But she did consider that each of 
the payments made were remarkable enough to have warranted an effective warning and 
referred to the requirements for firms under the CRM Code. She concluded each payment 
Mr T made was significant enough in value for Halifax to have identified a scam risk and 
provided an effective warning. And whilst she recognised theyd made payments for similar 
amounts prior to the scam payments - after a credit into the account at the start of 
March 2020 - she explained that before to this, the account was not used to make such high 
value payments. Our investigator explained that under the CRM Code, where the sending firm has failed to 
meet the standards for firms, and the customer has not met their requisite level of care, each 
liable party will accept equal responsibility. Therefore, her view remained the same that both 
Halifax and Ms T and Mr T should share liability 50:50. 
As Halifax disagreed with our investigators view on the complaint, its been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Halifax should have refunded 50% of the money 
Ms T and Mr T lost. I dont think Halifax has met the standards for firms set out in the 
code as I dont think it provided an effective warning. However, I also dont think Ms T 
and Mr T have met the requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
In the circumstances Halifax should now, fairly and reasonably, compensate Ms T 
and Mr T by paying 50% of the money theyve lost as a result of the scam. 
The money sent originated from Ms T and Mr Ts joint current account with Halifax. 
Halifax should pay interest (less any tax lawfully deductible) on 50% of the loss. 
While I note the joint current account wasnt an interest-bearing account, Ive thought 
about what a fair interest rate would be here, and I find 8% simple interest per 
annuum on these funds to be a pragmatic resolution in this case.
I have carefully considered Halifaxs representations about whether Ms T and Mr T ignored 
an effective warning in relation to the payments, and whether they had a reasonable basis 
for believing all the payments they were making were legitimate. Having done so, I uphold 
this complaint in part. I will now explain why. 
Did Ms T and Mr T meet the requisite level of care required of customers under the CRM 
Code? 
Ive first thought about whether Ms T and Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief for all the 
payments they made. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, I find myself in 
agreement with the arguments put forward by Halifax that Ms T and Mr T didnt meet their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. Im satisfied that Ms T and Mr T havent shown they had a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
When thinking about the sophistication of this scam, while I accept there were 
persuasive elements to it, such as the literature they received, the initial processes 
mirroring that of what a legitimate firm would do and the firm giving information as to 
how much of the funds would be protected under the Financial Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS), I do agree with many of the arguments Halifax has put forward. In 
particular, based on the information presented, I cant safely say Mr T carried out the 
level of research he says he did. Mr T said he looked up the firm online on 9 March 
2020 and didnt note anything of concern. However, Mr T told us he attended court in 
relation to a serious matter the same day  and so I think its unlikely Mr T wouldve 
researched a possible investment on the same day. But in any event, even if I am 
wrong about this, Im satisfied there were some other red flags that I feel Ms T and 
Mr T shouldve been concerned about before proceeding with the payments.  
The rates of return offered were quite high in comparison with those available 
elsewhere. I understand Mr T felt this was because they were corporate bonds, 
however I note there is some discrepancy as to the term of the bonds within the 
paperwork. Given the rates of return, I think Mr T ought to have looked more closely 
at the paperwork before proceeding.
The three payments sent from the Halifax account were all to the same beneficiary 
account. However, I have to keep in mind that the fraudsters had provided different 
account details to Mr T when he made an earlier payment from his sole account. 
With him being told both beneficiary accounts were in the name of firm A. From the 
evidence provided, Ive not seen any plausible explanation as to why the payment 
details changed. While I note Mr T say he was satisfied he was making payments to 
firm A, I can see he was presented with a no match CoP result and Im aware that 
he would have seen three no match CoP results in total when making the payments 
across both accounts (Mr Ts sole account and Ms T and Mr Ts joint account). Given 
the negative CoP results, I can understand why Halifax feels they ought to have been 
concerned. This result ought to have prompted Mr T to ask whether he was paying 
the correct firm, even more so by the time hed have received two other no match 
results on the initial payments he made on his sole account. 
As Ive set out, I dont think Mr T carried out much independent research prior to 
making the payments, and at this point, I think he shouldve checked that he was 
dealing with a legitimate business. Its also important to note that the possibility of a 
scam wasnt the only risk. The message shown indicates that it could be the wrong 
account number and so there was the risk that a mistake may have been made when 
the details were provided by firm A. It follows that Id have expected Ms T and Mr T to 
have considered the risk that there was a possible mistake with the account details, 
and Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me they did any further checks upon 
receiving the no match CoP results. Im persuaded that the no match results Mr T 
was presented with could and should have led to them taking steps to check the 
payment details and conduct further research into the firm they were trying to invest 
through. And so, I dont think he held a reasonable basis for belief that they were 
paying the person/ firm they were expecting to pay. To summarise, when thinking about the rates of return offered and the discrepancies relating 
to these rates within the paperwork the fraudster provided, and the negative CoP results, I 
think Ms T and Mr T shouldve done more checks, and had they done so, Im persuaded 
they would have realised that the firm they believed to be legitimate and authorised was not 
in fact authorised and, this wouldve prompted them to call the genuine firm in turn realising 
they were dealing with individuals impersonating the firm. 
So, it follows that Im not satisfied Ms T and Mr T have met the requisite level of care under 
the CRM Code. 
Ive now gone on to think about whether Halifax met the standards required of it under the 
CRM Code.
Did Halifax meet the standards required of it under the CRM Code and did it present Ms T 
and Mr T with an effective warning? 
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Halifax ought to have provided effective 
warnings. This is because I think it ought to have identified a scam risk given Ms T and Mr T 
were paying large amounts of money to a new payee, and it seems to me Halifax accepts 
this position given it provided warnings and has said Ms T and Mr T ignored effective 
warnings. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I dont think Halifax has shown that Ms T and 
Mr T ignored an effective warning when Mr T made the payments. I will now explain why. 
The warning Halifax provided to Mr T isnt specific to any one type of scam and more 
information on the specific scam types is only accessible through an optional link to the 
Fraud Hub page. So, this information isnt prominently displayed and therefore lacks the 
required clarity and impact required of an effective warning. The warning Mr T saw didnt 
bring to life what investment scams looked and felt like - more specifically it didnt highlight 
any of the common features of these types of scams and in particular, a cloned firm scam 
and how sophisticated these can be. It also doesnt set out what specific steps they could 
take to protect themselves against the common features of investment scams or cloned firm 
scams as required under the CRM Code. The warning provided to Mr T when making the 
payments is a generic warning which simply tells the customer to check the account details 
with a trusted source, yet the importance of this isnt explained, and there is no indication 
what such a trusted source could be in the circumstances.
For an effective warning to meet the definition under the CRM Code, as a minimum, it must 
be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. And for the reasons Ive explained 
above, Im not satisfied the warning presented meets all those requirements. So, it follows 
that Im satisfied Halifax cant fairly apply this as an exception to reimbursement and in turn 
Halifax did not meet the standards for firms under the CRM Code. 
Halifax has highlighted Mr T ignored multiple warnings the bank provided, such as no 
match CoP results and AAR warnings. I think it is important to distinguish an effective 
warning and negative CoP results under the CRM Code. Effective warnings are intended 
specifically to address the risk of, and enable customers to protect themselves from, APP 
scams. As Ive explained above, an effective warning must, as a minimum, meet the 
definition under the Code  that is to be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
 
Messages accompanying negative CoP results, though sometimes mentioning the possibility 
of fraud, are primarily intended to warn customers that payment details do not match (as was 
the case here) so as to warn customers about the risk of misdirecting a payment. And while I 
acknowledge Halifax provided a warning (albeit I have already explained why I dont find this to have been an effective warning) and a negative CoP result within the same payment 
journey, I dont find the two together to be sufficient to amount to an effective warning in this 
particular case.
 
Im further mindful that Halifax say Mr T didnt read the warnings on the Fraud Hub page but 
the information under this page was only accessible by an optional link in the AAR warning. I 
dont find this prominently displayed and so I cannot say this was effective. I dont think its 
reasonable to suggest an effective warning should be found by a consumer following links 
and finding a warning most relevant to their situation. 
And whilst Ive carefully considered Halifaxs position that it doesnt think an effective 
warning would have made a difference in this case, I dont agree. While I do think the no 
match CoP result could and should have prompted them to taking steps to undertake more 
research and check the payment details at the time of making the payments (which I have 
set out above), I dont think I can safely say Ms T and Mr T have acted with such 
recklessness or negligence to find they would have ignored an effective scam warning. Ive 
not seen anything which suggests Ms T or Mr T had any prior experience or knowledge of 
cloned firm scams. And, there were aspects of the scam which were persuasive and 
mirrored that of what a genuine investment firm would do. It is not the case that I find Ms T 
or Mr T showed a clear disregard for risk or that they had concerns and yet decided to 
proceed in any case.  
Had an effective warning been provided by Halifax  bringing to life investment scams, 
explaining they can be sophisticated  for example, that firms can be cloned - and, steps 
they could take to protect themselves, I think theyd have carried out further checks. Im 
persuaded this wouldve been the case coupled with the no match CoP results  I do 
accept Mr T didnt act in the way he ought to have done in response to the CoP results, but I 
think hed have taken a different course of action had the no match CoP result been 
provided within the same payment journey as an effective warning. Im particularly 
persuaded the two combined wouldve been more impactful and I think the scam wouldve 
unravelled for the reasons Ive previously explained. I think Ms T and Mr T wouldve 
recognised they werent dealing with a legitimate firm.
 
It follows, that I dont find Halifax provided effective warnings and that it failed to meet the 
standards required of it under the Code. Therefore, Halifax is liable for 50% of the loss in this 
case. And, while it doesnt impact the outcome in this case, given Ive concluded Halifax did 
not provide effective warnings, I dont think Ms T and Mr T ignored any effective warnings. 
 
Could Halifax have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Having thought carefully about this and considering what was good industry practice at the 
time, I dont think the payments Ms T and Mr T made as part of the scam wouldve appeared 
so unusual or out of character given the previous account activity, whereby I wouldve 
expected Halifax to have intervened beyond providing effective warnings.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I think both parties ought to share 
some responsibility for the loss. 
I therefore require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax to: 
Refund Ms T and Mr T 50% of their loss and;
Pay interest on 50% of the loss, from the date Halifax declined Ms T and Mr Ts claim 
under the Code, until the date of the settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
Halifax should send Ms T and Mr T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one. The 
interest should be calculated at 8% simple per annum.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman