DRN-4120801
The complaint
Ms K complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) reinvested her maturing Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) into a new four year ISA without her knowledge or consent.
What happened
Ms K had a fixed rate ISA with CBS which matured on 30 November 2022, but she says this 
was reinvested automatically in a new four year fixed rate ISA without her knowledge or 
consent, which she says is a breach of the terms of the original ISA, and the length of the 
new ISA was longer than the original ISA. Ms K says she received no communication about 
the reinvestment and there were postal strikes. Ms K contacted CBS on 30 December 2022, 
but they wouldnt allow her to transfer out of the ISA without a 180 day interest penalty. Ms K 
made a complaint to CBS.
CBS did not uphold Ms Ks complaint. They said when she opened her fixed rate ISA they 
wrote to her at that time. Within their letter they confirmed that when her ISA matures, theyll 
write to her with the available options, and there would be a default option to reinvest her 
funds into a similar fixed rate ISA. They said they wrote to Ms K on 3 November 2022 to 
confirm that the ISA was maturing on 30 November, and they explained her options and that 
if she wanted to reinvest all of her funds automatically, she didnt need to return the form to 
them. CBS said she had until 21 December 2022 to pay in or withdraw funds without 
incurring any charges. CBS said as they didnt hear from her, they reinvested her funds into 
a fixed rate ISA until 30 November 2026 and they wrote to her on 5 December 2022. 
Ms K brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. He 
said CBS had provided sufficient correspondence to alert Ms K about the ISA and they acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He said he could not hold CBS 
responsible for delays with any postal strikes and she had a 21 day cooling off period if she 
wanted to withdraw funds without penalty. He said they notified her of a change to the terms 
in 2021 which showed a longer term could be used for reinvestment.
Ms K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said CBS breached clauses of the terms, and they failed to communicate 
deadlines to her. She said although our investigator mentioned the change of terms in 2021, 
she didnt think it was reasonable for CBS to change the terms of a product during the fixed 
term, when she would not be able to withdraw from the product without paying a penalty, 
and without them bringing this change much more clearly to her attention. She said they 
didnt send important time sensitive communications by email, such as the confirmation that 
they had reinvested the ISA, especially during a hugely disruptive postal strike.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Ms Ks complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Ms K that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their communications regarding their accounts such as when they should send an email as 
opposed to a letter  even if it is time sensitive. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct CBS to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive looked at the literature which Ms K was sent when she opened her fixed rate ISA in 
2019, to see what it says about maturity. Section 11.1 of the terms say This account will 
mature at midnight at the end of 30 November 2022. We will contact you in writing at least 
14 calendar days prior to the maturity date with details of your re-investment and withdrawal 
options. I can see from the letter CBS sent that this shows the date of 3 November 2022, so 
they did contact her in writing 27 days prior to the maturity date. I accept that Ms K would not 
receive the letter on this date as it would take time for it to be delivered. But even 
considering any postal strikes at the time, by sending this 27 days prior to the maturity date 
would give Ms K more time to consider her options. I could not hold CBS responsible for any 
postal errors or delays as this would be outside of their control.
Im satisfied this letter is very clear. It shows her maturity date of 30 November 2022. It also 
gives her four options which include her taking some money out and reinvesting the rest with 
CBS or taking out all of her savings and closing the ISA. The letter informs her to fill in the 
relevant forms and either send them back to CBS or to call them by 30 November if she 
would like to do any of the below (such as closing the ISA/taking out some of her savings). 
The date she needed to take action with was in bold text, so Im satisfied this was clear. 
Page two of the letter shows the date in bold text of 21 December 2022, of which Ms K could 
pay money in/withdraw all or part of her funds or close a new fixed rate ISA without charge 
as long as it was done before the end of 21 December 2022. So Im satisfied they met 
clause 11.1.
Clause 11.2 of the terms of her original ISA in 2019 says Unless you instruct us otherwise 
prior to maturity, and subject to any changes in ISA Regulations, the funds in this account at 
maturity will automatically be re-invested into another ISA ('re-investment ISA'). So again, 
Ms K ought to have been reasonably aware when she opened the fixed rate ISA in 2019 that 
unless she instructed them prior to maturity (which she didnt), then the funds would be 
reinvested into another ISA. So she had clear notice that this was their procedure and it 
wouldnt go into an instant access ISA. The letter sent on 3 November 2022 reinforced this, 
that it would be reinvested into an ISA if she didnt send the forms back/contact them prior to 
30 November 2022.
Ive also looked at clause 11.3 The duration of the re-investment ISA will be no longer than 
the duration of this account. The withdrawal rights and notice periods that apply to the re-
investment ISA, where applicable, will be no less favourable than the equivalent conditions 
of this account. Ms Ks ISA in 2019 had a term of less than four years, but the reinvested 
ISA had a term of four years, so it would appear that CBS had not followed this clause, 
however, they had sent changes to her terms and conditions along with her statement in 
April 2021. And her statement references the booklet, so it would be unlikely it wouldnt have 
been included with her statement, otherwise it would have been proportionate for Ms K to 
contact CBS for this. 
The booklet is clear in the contents that there are Changes to some specific terms. Page 
11 of this document shows From 1 July 2021, were also changing a clause in our fixed bond and fixed rate ISA terms which is part of how we explain what happens at the end of 
the fixed term. It currently says that the term of your re-investment bond will be no longer 
than the term of your maturing product. It now says the new term will be no more than six 
months longer than the current term, at the most - it may well be the same or shorter. The 
updated clause in the Specific Terms for fixed bonds and for fixed rate ISAs now reads: The 
duration of the re-investment ISA will either be shorter, the same or no more than six months 
longer than the duration of this account. The withdrawal rights and notice periods that apply 
to the re-investment ISA, where applicable, will be no less favourable than the equivalent 
conditions of this account. So Im satisfied that CBS did inform Ms K of the change of the 
terms. 
Ive considered what Ms K has said regarding CBS changing the terms and conditions 
during the term of the fixed rate ISA. But companies are entitled to make changes to their 
terms and conditions as long as they provide sufficient notice to their customers. Typically 
this would be 30-60 days notice. And although the term of the new fixed rate ISA was longer 
(by five months  which would be within the timeframes given in the change to the terms), 
Ms K could have opted out of the new ISA as long as she informed CBS prior to maturity that 
she didnt want her funds reinvested into the new fixed rate ISA or within 21 days of the new 
ISA being opened. The penalty for both her matured ISA and new ISA was the same.
Ive looked at clause 11.6 of the terms of the original ISA. It says If your funds are re-
invested into a re-investment ISA on maturity, then we will contact you within 7 business 
banking days following the maturity date to confirm your re-investment. You will have the 
option to withdraw from or close your account without incurring any charge, within 21 
calendar days following the maturity date (i.e. by 21 December 2022). CBS contacted Ms K 
via a letter dated 5 December 2022. This would be considered to be three business days 
after maturity. So Im satisfied that CBS followed this term. 
Although Ms K contacted CBS about the reinvested ISA, unfortunately this was after the 
cancelation period had expired. As such, I cant say CBS were unreasonable in refusing to 
waive the penalty  even though this was only days after the cancellation period had 
expired. So it follows I dont require CBS to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman