DRN-3069932
The complaint
Miss S has disputed the basis of a debt that Lowell Financial Ltd are pursuing her for.
What happened
This complaint is about a current account overdraft which opened in 2008, defaulted in 2009, 
and was sold to Lowell in 2013.
In 2013, Lowell sent Miss S a notice of assignment and she arranged a repayment plan with 
them. Over the years, Miss S gave Lowell updates about her circumstances, and made 
various payments towards the debt.
In 2021, Miss S asked Lowell for a credit agreement and statements for this account. She 
said she wanted to know how the debt had arisen as she wasnt sure she really owed it. She 
questioned how the original creditor had set up the overdraft. She also said the original 
creditor had added too many charges. 
Lowell said theyd ask the original creditor for the credit agreement, but the original creditor 
explained there wasnt one for this account. Lowell were eventually able to get some 
statements, though they didnt go all the way back to the beginning of the account.  Lowell 
explained theyd bought the debt in good faith and thered been no prior dispute. They 
explained that the original creditor had added the charges, not them, so Miss S would need 
to take that up with the original creditor.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt think Lowell had done anything 
substantially wrong here. They reiterated that Miss S would need to complain to the original 
creditor if she thought theyd set up the overdraft incorrectly or added too many charges.
Miss S didnt agree. She was unhappy that the statements only went so far back, she still 
wanted a credit agreement, and she disputed how the overdraft had arisen. She wanted her 
complaint against Lowell to be escalated.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss S would like her complaint to be directed against Lowell. But much of 
her core complaint  such as how the overdraft was set up or the how much was added in 
charges  are about things the original creditor did, not things Lowell did.
In a complaint against Lowell, I can only consider what Lowell did, from the point at which 
they took ownership of the account. Lowell are not responsible for things the original creditor 
did before Lowell bought the debt. And it was the original creditor, not Lowell, who set up the 
overdraft and who added the charges. So if Miss S would like to dispute those things, then 
as our investigator explained, shell need to raise a dispute with the original creditor rather 
than Lowell.
Miss S suggested that this might not be her debt. But as far as I can see, this was a genuine 
current account which was registered in her name and at her address, with the statements 
being sent to Miss Ss address. The account was transferred to Lowell using a proper notice 
of assignment, which was also sent to Miss S. And from her contact with Lowell, it looks like 
she accepted the account was hers and was content to pay towards it for many years. There 
was no prior dispute about whose account it was, and Miss S frequently referred to it as 
being hers in the past. Further, Ive not seen any evidence which indicates this was anyone 
elses account rather than Miss Ss.
So based on what Ive seen, I think this was most likely Miss Ss account. And so it seems 
fair that Lowell have been pursuing her for it.
I do understand why Miss S would like to see more documentation from the time. But under 
data protection rules, businesses are required to dispose of old data rather than hold onto it 
for too long. And this account defaulted well over a decade ago. So I think its rather 
understandable that the statements dont quite go back all the way to the beginning. Im 
afraid thats partly a consequence of waiting so many years before raising a dispute. After 
the dispute was raised, Lowell broadly did what Id expect by trying to get copies of the 
documents Miss S asked for  though I accept Lowell could have been faster in places.
I also understand that Miss S would like a copy of a credit agreement. Again, I appreciate 
where shes coming from. But sometimes overdrafts dont have separate credit agreements, 
and according to the original creditor, thats the case here. So I think its reasonable that 
Lowell havent given Miss S a copy, since it seems there isnt one available.
As before, if Miss S would like to dispute how the overdraft was originally set up, or if shed 
like to dispute the charges that were added, shell need to do so with the original creditor. 
And if she needs our help with that, she can always get back in touch with our service and 
we can look into whether were able to help with that as a separate case.
But in this case against Lowell, Ive not found that they did anything substantially wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against Lowell Financial Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman