DRN-3131136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled their home 
emergency insurance claim in respect of faults with the boiler.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M initially contacted Aviva in September following their boiler breaking down, 
and being without heating or hot water. An engineer attended and initially replaced a 
diaphragm. The boiler then failed again as the engineer had replaced the wrong part. Mr and 
Mrs M were told they would have to wait for two weeks to get the right part. They were able 
to get a private engineer to get the system working. Mr M then reported the boiler was 
running constantly  he was advised to get a power flush. It was identified that the boiler had 
a leak.
Avivas engineer reported that the heat exchanger needed replacing but that there was a 
leak on the pump manifold. The engineer advised that the manifold was an obsolete part so 
the boiler would have to be replaced. Mr and Mrs M obtained an opinion from a private 
engineer who advised that the leak was from the O-ring on the heat exchanger. He went on 
to say that the retaining screw for the heat exchanger had been chewed up by an attempt 
to remove it. He further said that the leak was likely caused by the attempt to remove the 
screw forcefully.
Aviva denied liability for the damaged screw, or the leak. It said that the screws had likely 
been rounded by the heat over the years. It also said that the only way to remove the 
screw would be by drilling it out which risked causing damage to the manifold. It said the 
boiler likely needed replacing and under the policy terms issued a payment of £500 towards 
a new boiler. For this and previous poor customer service issues including missed 
appointments and fitting the wrong part it has paid further sums in compensation totalling 
£1,080. Mr and Mrs M struggled on with their boiler but because of their concerns with the 
leak, paid to have a new boiler installed for the sum of £1,980, including a new thermostat.
On referral to this service our investigator said the evidence of the engineer employed by 
Mr and Mrs M was to be preferred. So she said it was likely that but for the damage to the 
screw Mr and Mrs M would have been able to have the boiler repaired. So she said Aviva 
should pay the cost of the new boiler and its installation, but only pay £50 in respect of the 
thermostat  a total of £1,880. From this it could deduct the £500 already paid. It should pay 
£1,380, plus interest. 
Aviva didnt agree, pointing out that there was a leak on the manifold which is an obsolete 
part. It said this wasnt caused by its engineers and that but for this the heat exchanger could 
have been replaced, regardless of the issue with the screw.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the customer service issues I wont go into those too deeply since it appears to 
me that Mr and Mrs M have already received fair compensation.
The issue with the leak, and whether the boiler should have needed replacing turns on the 
engineers reports. Aviva has shared with us its engineers notes. On a visit in January 2021 
the engineer noted Boiler leaking on pump manifold. The plate screw is rounded off would 
need to drill out.
On a visit in March the note says: Screw is completely rounded off that goes through the 
manifold into the plate hex to replace this would leave high chance of splitting the pump 
manifold which is obsolete.
Mr and Mrs M's engineer said there must of (sic) been a lot of force applied to destroy the 
drive face of the bolt and also an incorrect driver used as the bolt was not corroded and was 
in good condition. The damage is also in a 'v' shape of which torx drivers are flat at the end 
and I have never in my previous experience seen a torx bolt get damaged in such a way. 
He went on to say: the leak is coming from the very same side and from the o'rings which 
seal the plate heat exchanger to the hydraulic manifold.
I conclude from the reports that the screw was likely damaged by Avivas engineer trying to 
force it. I think it unlikely that it would have been damaged by the heat of the boiler since it 
would have been made to withstand such heat. Mr and Mrs Ms engineer said it isnt 
corroded, and Ive seen no satisfactory evidence that it was corroded.
As to where the leak was  Avivas engineers arent conclusive on this point so I think it fair 
to say that the leak was on the heat exchanger which could have been replaced but for the 
likelihood the manifold would have been damaged in the process. Despite what Aviva has 
subsequently said Ive seen no indication that its engineer was willing to go ahead with 
drilling out the screw and replacing the manifold. The March 2021 note says ..this cannot 
now be fixed.
So the boiler couldnt be repaired by Aviva. So Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs M could 
have been expected to get the repair done privately with the risk of the manifold splitting and 
the boiler having to be replaced anyway. Bearing in mind the difficulties Mr and Mrs M have 
had, with periods of no heating and hot water, I dont think it would have been reasonable to 
expect them to do this.
So as I think Aviva was responsible for the leak and especially the inability to repair it, I think 
it reasonable that it pay the cost of the new boiler, less the £500 its already paid. The new 
thermostat appears to be an upgrade on the previous one so its reasonable that Aviva pay 
£50 for this, rather than the £150 Mr and Mrs M paid. 
Putting things right
Aviva should pay to Mr and Mrs M a total of £1,380, representing the cost of buying and 
installing the new boiler with £50 allowed for the thermostat, and taking into account the 
£500 already paid.  
It should add simple interest to that sum at 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs M paid the 
invoice until reimbursement.
Aviva Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs M request it, it should provide them with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman