DRN-2719713
The complaint
Ms T complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold her a life and critical illness policy when she 
took out her mortgage.
What happened
In 1996, Ms T was advised by ReAssure to take out a Life Protection plan alongside her 
mortgage. The mortgage was part repayment and part interest-only. She was advised to 
take out a policy which would cover her for the full mortgage amount of £44,500 for the full 
term of the mortgage. This was a level term policy meaning it would always pay out this sum 
assured throughout the term if Ms T passed away or suffered from one of the specified 
critical illnesses.
Ms T cancelled her policy in 2003. She has recently complained that the policy was mis-sold 
as she was told she had to take it out. She explained she questioned it at the time but was 
told she had to have it.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Ms T was single at the time and 
having a critical illness policy in place meant that if she wasnt able to work, she could repay 
her mortgage and continue to live in her home. The investigator explained that it wouldve 
been more expensive to have a standalone critical illness policy. He also said that whilst 
having half her mortgage on a repayment basis meant shed have more cover than needed 
later on in the term, it was more expensive to have two policies to cover the mortgage 
exactly. So, he didnt think the policy was unsuitable for her. The investigator said there 
wasnt any indication that she was told she needed the policy to get the mortgage.
Ms T disagreed. She said it was clear she was told to take it out as another policy that was 
offered was crossed out on her application form. She said she hadnt asked for it so believes 
it was mis-sold. As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for similar reasons.
Ms T has said throughout the complaint that she was told she had to take this policy out. I 
cant see that it was a condition of her mortgage to take this cover but I think its likely she 
was recommended to take it out to cover her in the event she suffered from a critical illness 
during the term of her mortgage. Ms T says the application shows a different cover was 
selected and then crossed out. I can see this was the case, but I dont think this suggests 
she was told she had to take her policy out to get the mortgage. It suggests that there was a 
choice in different cover and it was possible to select this cover.
As ReAssure recommended this cover to Ms T, it had to make sure it was suitable for her. I 
can see Ms T was single with no dependents at the time she was recommended this cover. 
So, I dont think the life cover was needed, as she didnt have anyone else that lived in the 
house or needed to benefit from the mortgage being repaid in the event of Ms T passing 
away. However, as the house belonged to Ms T on her own, I think it was suitable for her to 
have critical illness cover. This meant that she would be able to repay the mortgage and stay 
in her house if she suffered from one of the specified critical illnesses during the term of her 
policy. ReAssure has shown us that it was cheaper to have the life and critical illness cover 
combined rather than a standalone critical illness policy, so I dont think the presence of life 
cover made this policy unsuitable for Ms T. It provided her with suitable cover for the best 
price.
Ms T was sold a level term policy, this meant that she was covered for the full term and full 
amount of the mortgage. She did, however, have a mortgage that decreased over the term. 
Her mortgage was part repayment and part interest-only. As her mortgage wasnt fully on a 
repayment basis, a decreasing term assurance policy wouldve left her without enough cover 
if shed needed to claim on her policy. But having a level term policy has meant that she had 
more cover than she needed. So, Ive looked to see if the policy she was given was the most 
suitable advice in this case.
ReAssure has provided us with quotes to show that if Ms T had taken out two policies  one 
on a decreasing basis to cover the repayment part of the mortgage, and one a level basis to 
cover the interest-only part of the mortgage  it wouldve been more expensive. So, whilst 
Ms T ended up with more cover than she may have needed, it provided full cover for the 
mortgage for the best price. So, I dont think having a level term policy was unsuitable for her 
in these circumstances.
In summary, whilst I understand Ms T was unhappy as she didnt ask for the policy, Ive not 
seen enough to show she was told she had to take it out to get the mortgage. Im also 
satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for her circumstances at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman