DRN-3025619
The complaint
Mrs Js complained (through her husband Mr J) that UK Insurance Limited, trading as 
Churchill Car Insurance (UKI) unfairly declined her motor insurance claim when her car was 
damaged. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs J was driving her car home when she drove over a pothole.  A few 
minutes later, her car came to a complete halt and couldnt be restarted.  Mrs J had the car 
removed to a local garage.  The garage found the cars crankshaft had snapped and caused 
the engine to seize.  They said the car needed a new engine, which would cost several 
thousand pounds.
A few days later, Mrs J called UKI to register a claim under her motor insurance policy.  UKI 
took details of the incident and the damage Mrs Js garage had identified.  They said theyd 
open a fault claim and instruct their own repairer.
Just under a week after the claim was lodged, UKI advised Mr J  as Mrs Js representative - 
that their engineer had considered the circumstances of the incident and didnt believe 
driving over a pothole wouldve led to the crankshaft snapping.  UKIs engineer said it was a 
mechanical failure, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr J complained about UKIs decision to decline cover.  He said UKI had agreed to cover the 
claim when Mrs J first contacted them.  And he complained that UKIs engineer had reached 
his conclusion without inspecting the car.
UKI considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it.  They said two of their engineers 
had concluded there was no way the damage couldve been caused by driving over a 
pothole.  
And they said theyd spoken to the garage the car had been towed to, which had told them 
their initial view was the same as UKIs engineers.  But the garages mechanic had then 
researched the problem online, and had found this type of car had a history of crankshaft 
and engine faults.  This was why UKI had concluded thered been a mechanical failure.
Mr and Mrs J werent satisfied with UKIs response and brought the complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that UKI didnt need to do anything more to resolve 
the complaint.  He said hed listened to Mrs Js first call and could see why she may have 
believed the claim would be settled.  But that accepting a claim meant UKI were agreeing to 
consider it in line with the terms of the policy and, if they felt it was excluded, declining it at 
the earliest opportunity.  He was satisfied UKI had done that.
Mr J (acting on Mrs Js behalf) didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
Insurers should deal with claims they receive fairly and in accordance with the policy terms.  
The relevant policy term in this case is an exception which states UKI wont cover the cost 
of:
any mechanical, electrical or computer failure, breakdown or breakage.
I think that terms clear.  So I have to decide whether their decision that Mrs Js car had 
suffered a mechanical failure was reasonable.
In the complaint he sent to UKI, Mr J said that UKI had come to a different conclusion about 
the cause of the incident from the engineer whod inspected it at the garage.  The garage 
engineer hasnt produced a written report about the damage.  But he did speak to UKI about 
it and UKI has provided a call recording, which Ive listened to.
The garage engineer told UKIs case handler that his first reaction to being told the problems 
with the car were the result of driving over a pothole was that wasnt possible.  Thats what 
UKIs engineers said too.  And the garage engineer didnt say the damage had been caused 
by driving over a pothole.  He couldnt say what had caused the damage.
And he told the case handler that hed researched the issue online and it was generally 
known  to the extent that, in some countries, this model car had been recalled to address it.  
The case handler found the same information online.  So did I.  And Ive seen Mr J was also 
aware of it, because he contacted the manufacturer to complain to them before Mrs J 
notified UKI of the claim.
Im satisfied from this call that both engineers thought it unlikely the damage couldve been 
caused by driving over a pothole.  And that this particular fault was well known.  So I think 
UKIs decision that the damage was due to a mechanical fault  which was excluded from 
cover  was reasonable.  
Ive thought about Mr Js concern that UKI didnt inspect the car.  I can see why he might be 
concerned.  But I think its clear from the conversation with the garage engineer that 
inspecting it wouldnt have any impact on UKIs decision.  
The call handler asked the garage engineer several questions about how they could decide 
the exact cause of the damage.  The engineer told him that, in his opinion, further inspection 
or investigation would never establish that.  And it was clear what the damage was. So I 
think UKIs decision not to inspect the car themselves was reasonable.
And Mr J complained that UKI declined the claim after theyd agreed to cover it.  Ive listened 
carefully to the recording of Mrs Js conversation with UKI notifying them of the claim.  
I agree with our investigator that the language used by the call handler wasnt as clear as it 
might have been.  But it is clear an assessment of the damage to the car still had to be made 
- and that Mrs J understood that.  So I cant say UKI had categorically agreed to provide 
cover.  Or that their decision to decline cover was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint about UK Insurance 
Limited, trading as Churchill Car Insurance.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman