DRN-2922969
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank 
(Clydesdale) handled a dispute in relation to a purchase she made on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs G says she agreed to arrange a holiday over the phone with a travel agent (the 
supplier) in the morning. It was set to depart from a particular Scottish airport local to her 
(Airport A). However, later that day the supplier called back and spoke to Mrs Gs husband 
(whom I will refer to as Mr G) to say that the desired flights were overbooked and there 
was only one place available. Therefore, they had to choose to either travel separately with 
one departing from an alternative airport (Airport E), or they could travel together from 
Airport E.
Mrs G says they were reluctant to travel from Airport E as it was several hours from where 
they live. However, because of Mrs Gs health issues she needs her husband with her 
when travelling so they both decided to go via Airport E. Mr G called back the supplier to 
confirm.
Mrs G says that later in the evening when the email confirmation from the supplier 
arrived it was very different to what was agreed. Not only did the flights now leave from 
Airport E but they were no longer direct flights and involved stopovers at London on the 
way and Belfast on the way back.
Mrs G says the new journey times were significantly longer and less convenient than 
those she had agreed at the outset. She says she would never have agreed to this if the 
supplier had said something. Not only had it changed the flights to indirect flights, it also 
increased the price.
Mrs G says she got in touch with the supplier but it wouldnt refund her. She managed to 
get some money back from the airline but overall she has been left out of pocket. She 
had paid the supplier using her credit card so approached Clydesdale to see if it could 
help.
Clydesdale said the terms and conditions of the supplier allowed it to make changes to the 
flights, and Mrs G agreed to this so it wasnt able to raise a chargeback. It did award Mrs G
£100 for poor customer service in respect of documents it didnt return to her in good time.
This service looked into the matter. During which time Clydesdale added that it could not 
substantiate how the booking was changed due to a lack of documentation confirming the 
original agreement.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint due to a lack of information regarding the 
original booking, and how that had changed.
Mrs G asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. In summary, she says that
the circumstantial evidence, including her contact with the supplier, the airline and the hotel
all support her case that the booking was not as agreed. She says that no reasonable
person, particularly her and Mr G (with their health issues) would have agreed to the travel
arrangements specified.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 30 June 2021. In this I said:
Section 75
Clydesdale has not been entirely clear about whether it considered the matter under Section
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). At one point it said it had done, but then
clarified that it hadnt. In any event, I consider Section 75 was a viable option for Clydesdale
to have considered in this case. As in certain circumstances it provides protection in relation
to goods and services bought using a credit card.
As long as certain technical requirements are met Section 75 will apply. In this case I am
satisfied those technical requirements are met. Which means that Clydesdale will be
responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
has the supplier done anything wrong?
As far as I understand Mrs Gs complaint against the supplier is that the original agreement
was for direct flights, yet after it made changes to those flights (due to overbooking) the
supplier provided indirect flights without her agreement.
There is a copy of an email confirming a booking. It shows the flight departing from Airport E,
then stopping over in London, before flying to the intended destination. The trip time
outbound from take-off to landing is about 9 hours. On the return flight there is also a
stopover with the trip time from take-off to landing being about 6 hours. The flight also
arrives at a different airport to the departure airport (Airport G).
One of the issues here is that we dont have a confirmation of an original booking that
reflects what Mrs G says she originally agreed with the supplier over the phone. Mrs G didnt
receive confirmation in writing of this original arrangement. It appears the supplier called her
to change things before it sent any written confirmation of the original itinerary. All we have
to go on is what Mrs G says about the original agreement with the supplier. While I
acknowledge that not having email confirmation of this makes it difficult to see how things
might have changed I think it is important to have regard to the circumstantial evidence to
determine what is most likely to have happened here.
My starting point is what Mrs G has said is credible and consistent. She has maintained that
her original booking was direct flights from a local airport because she and her husband
have particular health conditions which made travelling more challenging. This seems
plausible to me. I can see that Airport A (which is where Mrs G said the original booking was
due to fly from) is significantly closer to where she lives than Airport E (the one in the
booking confirmation we have). Going from Airport E adds around 2-3 hours to the total
journey time. I can also see that the combined round trip flight time from take-off to landing
for direct flights would be around 6 hours  which is significantly less than the indirect flights
which clock in at a total of around 15 hours.
I find it unlikely that a couple keen on reducing travel time for health reasons, would have not
only agreed to fly from Airport E (which increases the journey and inconvenience in itself) but
also these indirect flights which stop over on the way there and way back before landing at
Airport G (which is also further away from home than Airport A). It makes for relatively long
travelling time. In fact the booking confirmation shows an itinerary which is completely at
odds with how Mrs G describes her travel intentions. And based on what she has said about
her own health, and Mr Gs, those intentions seem highly plausible.But that isnt the only thing. Mrs G has been very specific about the timeline of events. How
she called the supplier in the morning to book and how the confirmation of the itinerary did
not turn up until that evening. I can also see that less than an hour after Mrs G got the
booking confirmation email she writes back to the supplier to say it was not what was
agreed. This action is entirely consistent with what Mrs G has said, that the supplier changed
the original agreement significantly not just the departing airport.
I can also see follow up emails from Mrs G to the supplier. In which she is very clear that the
travel itinerary does not reflect what was agreed at the outset. Mrs G then goes on to contact
the airline and request a refund directly. I accept this happened because I can see the airline
refunded her some money shortly after she paid for the original booking. Mrs G also says 
she contacted the hotel, but it was unable to help.
In addition to these actions I can see Mrs G also calls Clydesdale to explain the issue. I have
listened to this call. Mrs G is very clear that she reluctantly agreed to departing from Airport 
E instead of Airport A but was not happy that the confirmation emailed showed indirect 
flights  something she never agreed. She also said the price had changed which wasnt 
disclosed either. This call is very consistent with what she has said elsewhere  and appears 
to have taken place on the day of the booking and shortly after the email confirmation 
arrived. At that stage everything would likely be fresh in her mind. I also note from her emails 
with the supplier that Mrs G appeared to contact Clydesdale in anticipation that the supplier 
would be able to provide some kind of call recordings to show what was discussed in relation 
to the booking. To me this shows she was confident that her recollection of events would be
corroborated.
Based on what Mrs G has said, and her subsequent actions (as supported by the
documentary evidence) I think it is more likely than not that her original agreement with the
supplier was for direct flights. And that the change to indirect flights came as a shock and
surprise  prompting her to take immediate action to complain to the supplier and request
her money back. It is difficult to say if the price changed too  but in any event I think that
there was likely a significant change to the original itinerary.
I also note that the supplier (which is apparently no longer trading) has not really provided
anything persuasive to contradict Mrs Gs account. It says via an initial email reply to Mrs G
that its own notes show that the booking was exactly as agreed. However, this email was
sent by someone who wasnt involved in the booking (they said the relevant department was
closed) and made comments before Mrs G had a chance to explain her side of the story. 
The supplier hasnt clarified if there are records of an original call earlier in the day or 
provided persuasive evidence of what was discussed on the phone. If Clydesdale is able to 
provide anything compelling which it requested from the supplier during its own investigation 
I invite it to send this. But as it stands, I think what Mrs G says is more persuasive.
So, overall I think it is more likely than not what Mrs G says happened is true  and that the
supplier changed the booking as she has claimed. I now need to consider if there has been
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
It appears the supplier told Mrs G it would book her holiday with direct flights, but this turned
out to be inaccurate. I think had she known this she would not have booked the holiday. This
is illustrated by her strong actions in complaining immediately and cancelling the flights with
the airline. So there is an argument that there has been a misrepresentation here.
In any event, I think there is a breach of contract. I am satisfied that the supplier is
responsible for arranging a holiday as agreed by its customer. Under the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 it needs to provide this service with reasonable care and skill. And anything it saysover the phone, which is taken into account by the customer, is included as a term in the
contract. In this case I am satisfied that there was likely an initial verbal agreement to
provide direct flights which the supplier did not fulfil.
Clydesdale has pointed to an extract from the suppliers terms and conditions, which allow it
to vary any aspect of a holiday at any time without notice. And say that the choice is either
accepting the variation or a choice of alternative travel arrangements of a comparable
standard.
I am not persuaded these terms neatly cover what happened here. It seems that rather than
a variation to a confirmed booking this is a case of the supplier simply not arranging what
was agreed at the outset. However, even relying on the terms and conditions I dont think
they permit the supplier to vary a booking without the acceptance of the customer. The terms
state that the consumer can accept the changes or an alternative of a comparable
standard. I am not persuaded Mrs G accepted the change  or a comparable alternative 
was provided (I think the difference between indirect and direct flights is significant here).
Overall and on balance, for the reasons given above, I think the supplier misrepresented or
breached its contract with Mrs G in respect of the holiday booking it arranged.
putting things right
In this case I am satisfied that Mrs G is entitled to money back to reflect the suppliers
wrongdoing. I can see she was able to recover £228.76 through the airline directly. But she
still has a loss of £461.24 from the £690 total cost of the holiday. It appears she didnt use
any aspect of the service so she should not fairly lose out on this money.
Although Clydesdale didnt look into the matter under Section 75 I note Mrs G contacted it
about a refund on the day the booking was made (29 March 2019). And Mrs G didnt get any
benefit from the service either. So I think it fair that Clydesdale re-work the credit card as if
£461.24 of the holiday cost paid on her credit card was never debited. As part of the 
reworking it should refund any interest and charges relating to this amount. If the re-working
results in a credit balance it should refund this amount plus 8% simple yearly interest
payable from the date of said credit balance to the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to re-work the credit card account as
I have stated above.
I asked both sides for their comments on the provisional decision. Both parties responded 
to say they agreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it here. I 
consider it to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Clydesdale should re-work the credit card as if £461.24 of the holiday cost paid on her credit 
card was never debited. As part of the reworking it should refund any interest and charges relating to this amount (Clydesdale said none were charged as the balance was cleared 
promptly). If the re-working results in a credit balance it should refund this amount plus 8% 
simple yearly interest payable from the date of said credit balance to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to re-work the credit card account as 
I have stated above.
If Clydesdale considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it
should provide Mrs G with a tax deduction certificate. If she is eligible, she can then reclaim
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman