DRN-3554598
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc stopped and then reversed two transfers that hed
made from his HSBC account to an account he held in his name with a third-party bank.
What happened
Mr J made two transfers from his HSBC bank account to an account held in his name with a
third-party bank. Mr J had made similar transfers before without incident. However, on this
occasion the transfers were stopped by HSBC for potential fraud checks. Additionally, HSBC
didnt contact Mr J about these transfers to enable Mr J to confirm their legitimacy, but
instead reversed the transfers. Mr J wasnt happy about this, especially as hed made the
transfers to pay for an item which hed travelled to collect but which he found he was unable
to pay for. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Js complaint. They confirmed that the transfers had been stopped for
fraud checks and explained that because of the high number of fraud checks that needed to
be done on that particular day that theyd been unable to contact Mr J as they would have
liked and instead made the decision to reverse the transfers back to Mr Js HSBC account.
As such, while HSBC acknowledged that Mr J had been inconvenienced, they felt their
actions had been reasonable and they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also
didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 June 2022 as follows:
I can appreciate how, from HSBCs perspective, their actions appear to be entirely
reasonable here. The employment of fraud prevention measures such as the fraud 
checks that these transfers were flagged for are a responsibility and obligation that all 
financial institutions must adhere to, and the point of such checks in this instance 
was ultimately to protect Mr Js money and ensure that it wasnt being transferred to 
a potentially illegitimate destination.
Additionally, while I accept that HSBC do attempt to contact account holders such as 
Mr J when transfers have been stopped pending fraud checks, I also accept that on 
the day in question HSBC had been unusually busy such that the fraud checks on 
the stopped transfers from Mr Js account couldnt be conducted in a timely manner. 
And HSBC have confirmed that in these circumstances they make a risk based 
assessment of whether or not to allow the transfers to proceed or to reverse them 
back to their account holders HSBC account  which HSBC did in this instance.
However, I can also appreciate how, from Mr Js perspective, he may feel aggrieved 
here. I say this because Mr J has confirmed that hes transferred money from his 
HSBC account to this other account on many occasions, and that HSBC hasnt 
flagged any of the previous transfers for fraud checks or stopped any of the previous 
transfers from completing.
As such, it seems fair to me that Mr J would reasonably expect the two transfers that 
HSBC did stop to have also completed without incident, especially given that he 
wasnt contacted by HSBC about them. I also feel that its reasonable, given these 
circumstances, for Mr J to have not checked that these transfers had been received 
into his other bank account before travelling to make the transaction he intended to 
make.
And while I can appreciate how HSBC being unusually busy on the day in question
prevented them from contacting Mr J in a timely manner about the transfers, as they 
would have liked, it remains the case that Mr J wasnt contacted about the transfers 
as he ought reasonably expect to have been, and that this contributed to the 
inconvenience that Mr J incurred as a result of the transfers being stopped.
It's also notable that HSBC have stated that they conducted a risk based 
assessment of whether to allow the transfers to complete, and following that 
assessment made the decision to reverse the transfers. But these were transfers to 
an account held in Mr Js own name to which hed made several previous transfers, 
none of which, to my understanding, Mr J had complained to HSBC about.
So, while I can appreciate HSBCs position here, Im also satisfied that Mr J has been
inconvenienced by what took place. And given that I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Mr J to have not checked that the transfers did complete into his 
third-party bank, given the number of similar successful transfers that hed previously 
instructed, and that Mr J wasnt contacted by HSBC about the stopped transfers as 
he might reasonably expect, I do feel that HSBC should compensate Mr J for the 
inconvenience hes incurred here in this specific, particular instance.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Mr Js favour and instructing HSBC to make a payment of £75 to Mr J, 
which I feel provides fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble that Mr J has 
incurred.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr J and HSBC the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. However, both Mr J and HSBC confirmed they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, and so I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint in Mr Js favour on the basis outlined above. And I therefore confirm that my final 
decision is that I do uphold this complaint accordingly.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £75 to Mr J.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman