DRN-2579118
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited mis-sold a mortgage protection life and 
critical illness policy when she took out new borrowing.
What happened
In late 2002, Miss R took out an equity release loan on a capital and interest basis for 25 
years. HSBC Life carried out a financial review of Miss Rs protection needs at the time and 
arranged a mortgage protection life and critical illness policy to cover the amount and term of 
the new loan.
Miss R complained to HSBC Life in 2019 that they had told her the policy was a condition of 
the new loan, she wasnt told the cost of the cover, the cover didnt take account of her 
needs at the time nor that she had life cover in place with her employer. Miss R said her 
existing mortgage ran for a shorter term than the equity release loan.
HSBC Life provided a final response to say they didnt uphold the complaint. They said it 
wasnt a condition of the new loan that a suitable policy be put in place, but theyd agreed a 
need with Miss R to protect the new loan for the 25-year term. HSBC Life say they wrote to 
Miss R to tell her what her monthly premium on the policy would be. They say the letter 
highlighted other needs for Mortgage Repayment Protection (commonly referred to as PPI) 
and a shortfall in critical illness in her existing policy for her mortgage, but Miss R declined 
any additional cover. HSBC Life say that they werent made aware at the time that Miss R 
intended to repay the loan earlier than the 25-year term and said it was Miss Rs 
responsibility to cancel the policy if it was no longer required.
Miss R didnt agree with HSBC Life and brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for her and thought that HSBC Life hadnt done anything 
wrong. Miss R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman decides her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss R will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint and I 
will now explain why.
Ive seen that Miss R spoke with an adviser from HSBC Life in early December 2002. The 
financial planning review document provided by HSBC Life confirms Miss R had death in 
service benefits with her employer that wouldve provided a lump sum on her death which 
was more than her new loan. However, death in service benefit would only be payable if 
Miss R continued in employment with her employer and there is no guarantee a new 
employer would offer the same terms if she left. So, we wouldnt normally consider this 
benefit suitable to protect fixed term borrowing as it may not be available if Miss R left her 
employer.
HSBC Life highlighted a need for MRI, but the financial planning review and the letter HSBC 
Life sent her on 5 December 2020 record that Miss R declined this because it was too 
expensive. HSBC Life also recommended a full review of family protection and record that 
Miss R said she only wanted her new borrowing to be protected at this time. In a letter to 
Miss R, HSBC Life recommended a mortgage protection policy for the amount and term of 
the new loan. They also enclosed details of the monthly premium and noted the term of the 
new loan was slightly longer than her existing mortgage as this helped keep the total 
monthly cost of her borrowing down. The letter confirmed Miss R had declined MRI cover 
and reminded her that she should review the shortfall in the existing life and critical illness 
cover on her existing mortgage.
Miss R says that the cost of advice charged by HSBC Life should be refunded and referred 
to a Plevin case. However, Plevin only applies to PPI type policies and as Ive already 
explained Miss R didnt take out PPI with HSBC Life.
Miss R says HSBC Life didnt consider she may pay off the equity release loan earlier than 
the 25-year term. Ive seen that the financial planning review mentioned Miss R intended to 
make additional payments to bring down the balance, but the policy document issued by 
HSBC Life explained that if Miss Rs circumstances changed, she should let them know. I 
would reasonably expect Miss R to have told HSBC Life when the loan was cleared as the 
payment was separate to the loan payment and wasnt added to the loan amount. The 
payment was taken out of her bank account each month, so I consider she wouldve been 
responsible of cancelling the payment when the policy was no longer required, or at least 
taking the steps to tell HSBC Life the loan had been cleared and the policy was no longer 
needed.
Miss R drew down the equity release loan in late December 2002 and Ive seen a copy of 
the loan agreement. I cant see that there is any condition for the loan to be protected by life 
or critical illness cover. However, the financial planning review confirms the recommendation 
made by HSBC Life was based on Miss Rs needs. She had no critical illness in place for the 
new loan and the life cover she held through her death in service benefit wouldnt be 
guaranteed for the term of the loan. So, I dont think the policy recommended by HSBC Life 
was unsuitable and Im not persuaded that HSBC Life told Miss R that she must take the 
policy to have the equity release loan approved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman