DRN-3955453
The complaint
Mr M complains about problems when trying to transfer funds from his account with 
Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr M has sent us evidence to show he made multiple attempts to set up the payment online 
but received an error message from Santanders systems explaining it was unable to 
complete the requests. To complete the transfer requests, Santander sent Mr M One Time 
Passcodes (OTPs) to the email address it had on file. Mr M later registered a mobile phone 
with Santander for the purpose of receiving OTPs but has explained he was still unable to 
complete a transfer request online. 
Santander says that a setting on Mr Ms online banking facility needs to be changed from 
requesting a payment on a future date to an immediate payment which would resolve the 
issues hes experiencing. Mr M complained to Santander and it initially tried to discuss the 
problems he was experiencing over the phone. Santander says it wanted to walk Mr M 
though the process while he was on the line to try and get a better understanding of the 
problems he found. Mr M has explained he wanted to communicate by email, so didnt feel 
comfortable completing the transfer or discussing the problems he was experiencing over 
the phone.  
Santander issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Santander said it had 
tried to help Mr M complete the transfer process but had been unable to do so as he was 
unwilling to speak with its case handlers. Santander said it was willing to help Mr M complete 
the transfer if he could discuss the ongoing problems with it. Santander didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santander had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr M asked to appeal and said it wasnt clear why Santander was insisting on speaking 
with him over the phone when he would prefer to correspond by email. Mr M also said he 
had no experience of using a mobile phone and had chosen the pay later option on 
Santanders online banking facility in line with its instructions. As Mr M asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Im aware Mr M made numerous attempts to complete the transfer online when and that hes 
attempted to comply with the instructions Santanders system provides. But its clear 
something is wrong either with Santanders system or the way Mr M has tried to process the 
payments. I appreciate Mr M has tried his best to follow Santanders online instructions and 
those given by the agents he spoke with. And I can understand why Mr M asked to 
correspond in writing. But I think Santanders request to talk him through the process over 
the phone was reasonable in the circumstances of his case. Ill explain why. 
Santander has told us its investigated the issues raised but found no evidence of any 
account blocks or technical issues in terms of its payment system and online banking. So 
there is nothing obvious thats stopping Mr M setting up a new payee online. Santander says 
its provided as much guidance as possible in writing and I think the request to speak with 
Mr M while hes attempting to complete the transfer online is to try and make sure all the 
relevant options are selected. I think Santanders view that it would be possible to identify 
whether the issues are systems or user related while going through an attempt in real time is 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate Mr M has told us he isnt 
willing to do that, but Im not persuaded it was an unreasonable request for Santander to 
make in the context of the issues raised. 
Without being able to discuss the issue with Mr M over the phone in an attempt to resolve 
the issues hes experiencing, the options for moving funds out of his account are limited. 
I recently asked Santander to confirm what other options Mr M has to move money. 
Santander has confirmed Mr M can call its telephone banking teams and answer the 
necessary security questions to instruct a transfer. Mr M has recently told us hes unwilling to 
call Santander after previously being cut off and with calls not being answered. Mr M has 
told us he feels that Santander is discriminating against him due to his age by asking him to 
call. 
Again, I appreciate Mr Ms point and recognise he may have had difficulties calling 
Santander in the past. But Mr Ms concerns appear to relate more to the service provided by 
Santander when hes called previously rather than as a direct result of his age or difficulties 
making the call. And given Mr M has previously instructed payments over the phone, I think 
Santanders provided a reasonable alternative to completing the transfer online.  
Santander has also confirmed Mr M can visit his local branch to complete the transfer. Mr M 
has told us that due to his health and age hes unable to visit a branch. I dont doubt what 
Mr Ms said but I think Santander is seeking to provide alternative options to help resolve the 
situation. 
Mr M has confirmed he has a cheque book but says that none of the savings account 
providers hes looked at accept payments by cheque. Whilst I dont know which businesses 
Mr M has looked into, I looked at various savings account providers online, including several 
high street banks. I found there were various options to open savings accounts that allowed 
customers to pay funds in using cheque payments. In addition, I also looked at the two 
banks Mr M told us he had intended to transfer money to (S and C). Both banks websites 
confirm they accept cheque payments to fund savings accounts. Overall, Im satisfied there 
are options available for Mr M to make payments via cheque.
I can see Mr M has tried to engage with Santander and understand why hes frustrated by 
the inability to set up a new payee online. But Im satisfied Santander has provided 
reasonable guidance and attempted to assist as far as possible. And Im satisfied Santander has provided other options to Mr M that could be used to make payments to savings account 
providers. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied there are other options for him to move 
his funds to a different business and that Santander dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman