DRN-4021913
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Think Money Limited (Think Money) delayed a faster payment 
transaction he made on 3 May 2022.
What happened
Mr A made a payment of £3,000 on 3 May 2022 to his sons bank account. 
As this payment was recorded as being paid on his account, but had not reached his sons 
account, Mr A called Think Money on 5 May 2022 to enquire where the money had gone. 
The member of staff he spoke to said that the money shouldve already reached Mr As sons 
account by that point under the faster payment time frames, so said that Think Money will 
look into the delay for him. The member of staff assured Mr A that the money will either be 
credited back into his account or paid into his sons account, but said he was unable to 
provide a timeframe to Mr A as to how long it will take to resolve.
The money was subsequently paid into Mr As sons account shortly after the telephone call 
on 5 May 2023.
Think Money responded to Mr As complaint on 10 May 2022, and apologised for the delay 
and paid Mr A £30 as an apology.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service, and one of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint and concluded that Think Money should pay Mr A £100 compensation.
Think Money disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
After reviewing the case, we explained to Mr A that I was minded to say that Think Moneys 
offer to pay him £30 was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I think that Think Moneys offer to pay £30 compensation was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain why.
It does not appear to be in dispute that the payment Mr A made via his Think Money account 
was delayed. Indeed, the faster payments scheme says that payments are usually made 
within 2 hours but could be made up until the end of the next working day  which in this 
case wouldve been 4 May 2023. And Think Money has confirmed that the reason why the 
payment was made late was because of delays in its processing of the payment.
So all that is left for me to consider is whether what Think Money offered was reasonable, or 
whether Think Money should pay more compensation to Mr A. I note that the adjudicator 
thought that £100 was a reasonable figure, whereas Mr A asked for £500 in compensation.
When Mr A called Think Money on 5 May 2023, he said he did so because the payment was 
showing up as paid, yet his son still had not received it. In the circumstances, I can certainly 
understand why Mr A was initially concerned, especially as the amount transferred was a 
fairly sizeable amount of money.
However, during the telephone call Mr A had with Think Money on the 5 May 2022, Mr A 
asked if his money was guaranteed. And the member of staff assured Mr A that the money 
will either be paid back into his account if the payment fails, or will be paid into his sons 
account if it is successful. The member of staff assured Mr A that they would look into why 
the payment was delayed, and sure enough, the payment was credited into Mr As sons 
account a short while later at 2:18pm on 5 May 2022.
As such, whilst I recognise that things did not go as they shouldve, I also think that Think 
Money took reasonable steps in reassuring Mr A that his money was safe i.e. itd not been 
lost in the system and that it would look into matters as soon as possible  which it clearly 
did, given how quickly the payment was then processed.
I recognise that Mr A was inconvenienced in having to contact Think Money. But, whilst I 
realise it wouldve been worrying for Mr A, I think Think Money took reasonable steps to 
assure Mr A and get the payment processed quickly once itd been flagged that itd been 
delayed. And although Mr A says that the member of staff was being evasive, having 
listened to the call, I dont think they were. The member of staff explained that its payments 
team will need to look into matters and also that it couldnt provide a time scale, because the 
amount of time it would take to resolve would depend on why exactly the payment was 
delayed.
Finally, I note that Mr A believes the payment was delayed on purpose so that Think Money 
could earn interest whilst it had the money. However, having considered everything that 
Think Money has provided, I dont believe that was the case. From what I have seen, I am 
satisfied that the delay in the payment being processed outside of the faster payments 
timeframes was genuinely unintended. 
As such, when considering the impact this matter had on Mr A, I think that Think Moneys 
offer of £30 is reasonable. I say this especially as using financial services wont always be 
totally hassle free and our service wont always award compensation for each and every 
mistake a business may make  especially when the impact (to the person complaining) is 
relatively minimal.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I think that what Think Money Limited has already 
done to put matters right is fair and reasonable. I therefore dont think it needs to do anything 
more in relation to this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman