DRN-2563958
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan TM Advances Limited (trading as TM Advances) 
provided to him. He says he little or no means of making the loan repayments without 
reborrowing.
Background
TM Advances provided Mr C with a loan of £1,500.00 in April 2017. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £152.92. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and TM Advances had told us. And she thought 
that TM Advances hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
TM Advances needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is TM Advances needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TM Advances provided Mr C with a loan for £1,500 in April 2017. This loan was to be repaid 
in 36 instalments of around £152.92. TM Advances says it agreed to Mr Cs application after 
he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. All of this information 
showed Mr C could make the relatively low monthly repayments he was committing to. On 
the other hand, Mr C has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and TM Advances have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that TM Advances has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received. It does indicate that Mr C had a low credit score and I do have 
concerned about the risk profile Mr C was said to have. But a closer look at the credit file 
shows the credit score associated risk profile were due to historic difficulties that Mr C had 
had. Mr C had at least 1 satisfied CCJ and a number of payday type loans which had been 
taken some years previously. But the credit search didnt show any recent problems and or 
excessive indebtedness. It didnt suggest any recent applications for credit either.
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly payments for this loan and what the credit file 
suggested about his current position, I dont think that it was unreasonable for TM Advances 
to have proceeded with the expenditure information Mr C provided for this application. 
I accept that Mr Cs circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information 
he provided, or the information TM Advances obtained. And that if Mr Cs bank statements 
had been obtained TM Advances might have seen signs as to why Mr C might have 
struggled to repay this loan and why his financial position was about to take a turn for the 
worse.
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into obtaining Mr Cs bank statements here. Id also add that Mr Cs bank 
statements do support his regular commitments being around the amount calculated at the 
time of the application and therefore he would have enough to make the payments to this 
loan. 
As this is the case, I dont think that TM Advances did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that TM Advances 
treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman