DRN-2945616
The complaint
Miss B complains that her loan with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) was lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In 2014 Miss B took out a £5,000 loan over 48 months. The loan was applied for and 
approved on Nationwides website. 
Miss B says she was in persistent debt at the time and Nationwide didnt ask for any payslips 
or bank statements to check the loan was affordable. Miss B says she had debt including 
payday loans outstanding at the point she applied for the loan. So, she logged a complaint 
with Nationwide. 
Nationwide looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it checked Miss Bs credit 
worthiness with an external credit reference agency (CRA) and didnt find anything that 
meant it couldnt lend to her. As Miss B remained unhappy, she brought her complaint our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that Miss B demonstrated at the point she took out the loan that she had 
enough disposable income to pay the loan back. He went on to say that Miss B told 
Nationwide that she would clear the existing loan and credit card with the new loan, and this 
would decrease Miss Bs monthly outgoings instead of increasing them.
Lastly our investigator found that the other debt including payday loans Miss B referred to 
her in complaint were taken after the Nationwide loan, so it wouldnt have been aware of it at 
the point the loan was approved. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Nationwide treated Miss 
B fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
1) Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
3) Ultimately, did Nationwide make a fair lending decision?
4) Did Nationwide act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations at the time of the loan required Nationwide to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss B could afford to repay what she 
borrowed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is usually referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so 
Nationwide had to think about whether sustainably repaying any amounts lent would cause 
Miss B any difficulties. In other words, it wasnt enough for Nationwide to just think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on 
Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) 
and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Miss B borrowed £5,000 over 48 months with a 
monthly payment of £134.57
The starting point here is that Miss B declared an income that after her existing 
commitments were paid, left her with enough to pay the new monthly payments and have 
money spare. That formed part of Nationwides income and expenditure check, and it was 
satisfied it could lend the amount requested based on what she put on her application  
pending anything else highlighted from the rest of its checks.
As our investigator has correctly highlighted, Miss B told Nationwide that she would use the 
new loan to consolidate her existing loan and credit card debt. Having looked at what Miss B 
had outstanding at the time, I can see that this wouldve been possible and wouldve also left 
Miss B with money left over. The new Loan payment was £134.57 against the payments she 
was currently making of over £244, so a decrease in her commitments. 
Nationwide has then told us that it used a credit scoring service to asses Miss Bs 
application. Based on the information available at the time of the loan application, it was 
satisfied Miss Bs loan was affordable and she didnt have debt elsewhere that would have 
an impact on her being able to repay the loan. Ive seen this credit check and I cant see any 
adverse data or anything that may have put Nationwide on notice that they were about to 
lend irresponsibly. Our investigator has also correctly pointed out that at the point of sale, 
Miss B had one loan and one credit card, the other loans the credit report has since 
highlighted were taken out after August 2014. 
Miss Bs declared income could also be checked against this report, although Miss B hasnt 
told us that she did declare a figure higher than what she earnt. So, I dont find I need to 
comment on this further or make a finding. 
Miss B told our service that Nationwide shouldve asked her for payslips and bank 
statements to evidence she couldnt afford the loan. In some circumstances Id agree with 
Miss B that this information shouldve been requested, but not in the circumstances of her 
complaint. I wouldve expected Nationwide to ask for this information if anything concerning 
had been highlighted from the credit scoring report or the information Miss B submitted as 
part of her application. For example, if Miss B had declared a much higher salary than common place for the job she had put on her application, Id expect her payslips to be 
checked to make sure the salary she declared was correct.
As theres no evidence to suggest Miss B was struggling financially from the checks 
Nationwide completed, Im satisfied they didnt need to scrutinise her finances any further. 
Miss B has said she was gambling a significant amount of money at the time and this was 
another reason Nationwide shouldnt have given her the loan. Ive considered this point 
carefully but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. Had it been highlighted on any of 
the checks Nationwide carried out that Miss B had a significant amount of borrowing 
elsewhere, late payment markers, arrears, or other factors that indicated financial difficulty, I 
wouldve expected Nationwide to investigate Miss Bs finances further to see where the 
money was being used. Had it done this it may have found Miss B was using the money for 
gambling. But as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that the type of lending being discussed 
here didnt require that level of scrutiny. 
Having said that, I can also see that although Miss B had a banking account with Halifax, 
she was using a third-party account to fund her gambling. So again, this wouldnt have been 
information readily available to Nationwide had it needed it. 
In summary, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to rely on the payments being 
affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. Im also satisfied that the checks it 
completed were proportionate to what it lent, and these checks didnt show the loan to be 
unaffordable or sustainable at that point. Ive also not found Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope she understands the 
reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman