DRN-1718574
The complaint
Ms Js complaint is about a rent and legal protection insurance policy sold alongside a 
managed letting service by Connells.
Ms J says she wasnt told the rent and legal protection insurance policy would end if she 
stopped using the managed letting service. Because of this she feels the policy was mis-
sold.
All references to Connells include their agents.
What happened
In December 2018 Ms J entered into an agreement for letting services with Connells. Whilst 
doing so, she also purchased rent and legal protection insurance from them.
In September 2019 Ms J gave Connells three months notice to cancel the managed letting 
service. Connells replied confirming that the agreement would be cancelled in accordance 
with her wishes but also pointed out that the rent and legal protection policy would end 
unless she made contact with the insurance provider for future cover and payments.
Ms J was unhappy with this. She said it wasnt made clear to her that the insurance was 
contingent on the letting service being in place. Connells considered this. They said the 
insurance was sold to Ms J on a non-advised basis and that the Agreement for Lettings 
Services she was given at that time set out that the rent and legal protection policy could be 
paid for by Connells deducting the premium from the rent collected on her behalf. Connells 
also said the insurance wasnt available if she chose the Tenant Introduction Service-which 
is not the option Ms J selected.
Ms J feels the policy was mis-sold. She says the position wasnt made clear to her at the 
time of sale. 
Our investigator considered Ms Js complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that even if the position wasnt made clear to Ms J, she didnt think Ms J had been 
prejudiced. Thats because she felt that Ms J wouldnt have done something differently and 
not taken out insurance.
Ms J doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that I dont think Ms Js complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
There is limited information available from the point of the policy being sold. I understand the 
sale was conducted on a non-advised basis. That means Connells didnt need to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Ms Js needs, but they did need to provide her with clear, fair and not 
misleading information to allow her to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
cover out.
I have some sympathy for Ms J in that I dont think it was made obviously clear that the 
cover was contingent on her continuing to utilise the managed letting service. The 
information in the Agreement for Lettings leaflet Connells has referred to is contained at 
page 14 of a 15 page document. And it doesnt expressly say a policyholder must continue 
to use the managed letting service in order to benefit from insurance cover. So its not 
immediately clear. And even if I accept that Ms J received this leaflet- she says that she 
didnt- then I dont think the position was made very clear to her from the outset. 
That said, I also give some weight to Connells assertion the insurance premium was 
payable by their deducting this from the rent collected on Ms Js behalf. So I appreciate that 
this ought to have caused Ms J pause for thought - at least on the issue of how premiums 
would be payable if she cancelled the letting service. 
That said, its not necessary for me to decide whether Connells gave Ms J enough 
information to decide whether to take out the policy to determine the outcome of this 
complaint. What I need to consider is whether any failure by Connells to do so wouldve 
caused Ms J some detriment. By that I mean whether she wouldve done something 
differently had she been told from the outset that the insurance was contingent on the 
managed letting service continuing.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms J took the managed letting service Connells were 
offering with a view to cancelling it shortly after. In fact the agreement wasnt brought to an 
end until a year after it was taken. Because of this theres nothing that makes me think the 
agreement for a managed letting service was a very temporary one. The policy that was 
purchased with it also ran for a year. Thats the life span of most rent and legal protection 
insurance policies. After this time, those insurances need to be renewed or they lapse.
Ms J had the benefit of the rent and legal protection insurance policy for a year. But she says 
that had she known the policy was contingent on the managed letting service, she wouldnt 
have taken it out at all. Im not entirely persuaded by this. I say so because shes also told us 
she had some problems with tenants in the past so wanted rent and legal protection cover 
should future problems arise. And Ms Js complaint is that the cover ended when the 
managed letting service did. The implication here is that she didnt want it to end. And if I 
were to accept that she wouldnt have taken the cover at all, I would have to ignore the fact 
that she selected it in the first place. The policy wasnt included as standard within the letting 
service- rather it was an option she agreed to take out with it.
Because of this I dont think that Ms J wouldve done something differently and not taken out 
the insurance. Ive also thought about whether she wouldve taken it out instead with another 
provider at a lower price. But judging by what shes said about not shopping around and 
disliking price comparison websites or buying insurance online, I dont think she wouldve 
gone elsewhere for more competitive cover. Because of this I dont think anything Connells 
might have done wrong caused Ms J any detriment.
I appreciate that Ms J is unhappy that she had cause to complain and that it took up her time 
in doing so. But for the reasons mentioned above, I dont think Connells did anything wrong, 
such that it caused Ms J any detriment, so I dont think it needs to do anything further to put 
things right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint against Connells Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman