DRN-2315309
The complaint
Mr M says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in January 2003.  
What happened
An adjudicator originally upheld this complaint. They thought Mr M was employed as a 
company director at the time of the sale. The adjudicator also found that Mr M was 
suffering from medical conditions in January 2003. The PPI policy contained conditions 
which would have made it hard for Mr M to make a successful claim because of his 
medical conditions and his employment status. So the adjudicator thought the policy had 
been mis-sold.
Canada Square disagreed with the adjudicators findings. It said Mr M had told it he was 
employed when he applied for his credit card. And it showed us online screenshot 
evidence to show Mr M was no longer a company director in January 2003. Canada 
Square also questioned whether Mr M had a pre-existing medical condition in January 
2003.
Another adjudicator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M disagreed with the second adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
In October 2020 I issued my provisional findings on the complaint which were that I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. In my provisional decision I said:
Mr Ms employment status
When Mr M originally complained to Canada Square he completed a questionnaire and 
assumed the sale took place in 1995. So Ive disregarded the information on this form as 
the sale date is incorrect by eight years.
When Mr M contacted this service he completed a questionnaire with the correct sale 
date. In this questionnaire he said he was self-employed as a company director in 
January 2003.
Canada Square has shown us a copy of its internal records showing the answers Mr M 
completed on his online application. This shows that Mr M said he had been employed in 
a professional/senior management position since 1998. Mr M also gave his employers 
name which was a limited company.
I dont think these two pieces of information necessarily contradict each other. A 
limited company is a legal entity in itself so Mr M would have been correct in stating 
he was employed by his limited company as a company director.
So I think that when Mr M was working for the limited company he did so in the capacity of 
a company director.
Canada Square has shown us public records from an online search which say Mr M 
ceased to be a director in 2002 and that the last accounts for the limited company were 
also filed in 2002.
We showed these to Mr M who stated they were incorrect. He says the business was 
liquidated in July 2003, and he remembers this because he underwent surgery on his 
knee at that time.
Ive thought about all this. The information shown to us by Canada Square shows the 
company accounts are available to October 2001 but that next accounts were due by 31 
July 2003. So I think it is possible the company was still operating in January 2003 when 
the policy was sold.
And if the limited company wasnt operating in January 2003 it is unclear to me why    
Mr M would give it as his employer when completing Canada Squares online credit 
card application.
I do appreciate some of the information and evidence is unclear but after taking into 
account all the evidence together with Mr Ms testimony I think it is most likely Mr M was 
working as a company director for his limited company in January 2003.
And the policy terms and conditions state that as a director Mr M would not be able to 
claim successfully for unemployment unless his company had been wound up by a 
creditor who was not a director of the company.
I think that particular term would make it extremely difficult for Mr M to make a claim 
for unemployment and I think it is very unlikely hed have bought the policy if this had 
been adequately brought to his attention.
I could uphold this complaint on that point only , but I also have concerns the policy was 
mis-sold due to Mr Ms health at the time.
Mr Ms health in January 2003
In Mr Ms original complaint to Canada Square he said he had no medical conditions at 
the time of the sale. But Mr M thought the sale was made in 1995 at the time.
When Mr M brought his complaint to this service he said he had medical conditions at 
the time of the sale in January 2003.
Mr M told us he had high blood pressure, he wasnt sure of the exact date it was 
diagnosed but hes told us it was diagnosed before 2003. He says he was taking 
medication for this condition.
Mr M has also told us he had an operation on his knee in July 2003, six months after 
taking out the credit card and PPI. He says he recalls the date as he had the operation 
when his company stopped trading in July 2003. He says he had the operation then so 
he could take time off before starting a new job. Mr M has told us he had been in pain 
with his knee and had been receiving treatment for the 12 months prior to the operation. 
All of this fits in with what Mr M has told us about his employment status at the time of 
the sale.
So I think it is most likely Mr M had this operation in July 2003. And because of the nature 
of the operation its likely he was suffering from symptoms and being treated by a doctor 
in January 2003.The PPI policy sold to Mr M excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions. And I 
dont think Mr M would have bought the policy if this important exclusion had been 
brought to his attention.
So I think the policy was mis-sold and Canada Square needs to put things right.
Canada Square told us it disagreed with my provisional findings. It requested Mr M supplied 
evidence of the knee operation and high blood pressure. Canada Square also reiterated 
that it had supplied evidence from public records that Mr M ceased to be a company 
director in March 2002.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M first complained to Canada Square he thought the sale took place in 1995, some 
eight years before it did. And he said he had no pre-existing medical conditions. After 
Canada Square wrote to him and told him the correct date of sale he completed a 
questionnaire stating he had medical conditions in 2003. We asked Mr M to clarify this and 
he told us he had been diagnosed with high blood pressure before January 2003 and had a 
knee replacement operation in July 2003. This service would not usually ask for medical 
evidence of pre-existing medical conditions unless there is reason to question the date of 
diagnosis, in this case there wasnt as Mr Ms previous testimony to Canada Square wasnt 
at odds with what he subsequently told us.
Following my provisional decision we asked if Mr M if he could obtain medical records from 
his GP. Mr M has told us he changed GP since 2003 and due to the situation with Covid his 
current GP surgery is under pressure and reluctant to look through records, which I find 
understandable.
So Ive looked again at what Mr M has said. In my view Mr Ms account of his medical 
conditions is plausible, consistent and persuasive. He has told us he cant recall the exact 
date he was diagnosed with high blood pressure but says it was before 2003. He says he felt 
tired and went to the GP for advice because of this. Mr M has been able to recall the exact 
date of his knee replacement operation and says he recalls his business was wound up in 
July 2003 precisely because he was having the knee operation later that month and wouldnt 
be able to work for a couple of months.
So taking everything into account I am persuaded Mr M most likely had been diagnosed with 
high blood pressure at the time of the sale, and I think it most likely he had a major knee 
operation in July 2003, which means he would have been having treatment for the knee or at 
least experiencing symptoms at the time of the sale in January 2003.
The policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions and I think it unlikely Mr M 
was made aware of this important feature of the policy at the time of the sale. If it had been I 
dont think he would have gone ahead and bought it. So Mr M has lost out due to Canada 
Squares failings.
In respect of Mr Ms employment status, he has again told us the company was not 
liquidated in 2002 but in 2003 after the sale of the policy and he has stated he continued to 
be a director until it closed in July 2003. But ultimately I dont need to make a finding on this 
point as I have already found the complaint should be upheld due to Mr Ms medical 
conditions.    Putting things right
Canada Square should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. Canada Square should find out how much Mr M wouldve owed when the account 
was closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when 
he closed the account and what he wouldve owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M 
would have owed when he closed the account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest rate should 8% a year.
C.If  when Canada Square works out what Mr M would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr M paid more than enough to clear the balance, Canada Square 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr M wouldve owed Canada Square something on the 
credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Canada Square should tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Canada Square Operations Limited to pay Mr M 
compensation as set out in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman