DRN-2446297
The complaint
Mrs J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs J took out a Barclays credit card in 2001. At the same time, Barclays sold her PPI to 
protect her card repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs J didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mrs J that she had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
her agreement before adding it. I gather the sale took place at a branch meeting and its now 
difficult to say with any certainty what happened at the time. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs J says about how the PPI was sold. But Ive seen a copy 
of her signed credit card application form. In it, she was given the option to tick to either 
request or decline PPI. The box to take PPI was ticked while the box to decline it was left 
blank. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Mrs J that 
she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mrs Js complaint, but 
I dont think there are. Barclays and Mrs J agree it recommended the PPI to Mrs J. That 
meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether it was right for her. 
I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. But, from what I know of Mrs Js 
circumstances, I think the PPI was right for her. I say that because:
It seems Mrs J would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest she was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy. 
While Mrs J says she was entitled to sick pay for up to 6 months from her employer, 
the PPI benefits would still potentially have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
The benefits would have been paid in addition to any sick pay she was entitled to and 
could also have paid out if she became unemployed. So, I think the PPI provided 
Mrs J with useful additional protection. 
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mrs J. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for her, Barclays also should have given Mrs J clear 
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mrs J agreed to the cover 
and it looks to me as if it was right for her and was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information would have affected her decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mrs J any extra interest she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs J the difference 
between what Mrs J owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mrs J 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs J can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman