DRN-4215220
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the return of money taken 
fraudulently from their account, provided poor service and communication and didnt respond 
to their complaints.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B explain that they were the victims of a crime on 16 February 2022 when two 
males took their bank cards and discovered the PIN. Mr Bs debit card was used to make 
£300 in cash withdrawals and for two payments of £5,000 to a merchant. The £300 was 
returned quickly but they didnt receive the £10,000 back into their account until 31 March 
2022. This required a number of calls with the help of their representative and complaints 
they had raised were closed and not responded to. Barclays paid them £400 for this 
complaint even though Mr B hadnt agreed to this.
Barclays said that due to the amount disputed a full investigation had been required. And 
that it was sorry it exceeded the usual timescales. It said a complaint had been raised in 
February 2022 and closed after confirming a resolution with Mr B. But that complaint had 
been opened and closed twice more with no contact with him about the resolution. Barclays 
said that the payments were made with chip and PIN and its systems didnt deem these to 
be suspicious. It recognised that their representative had written in May 2022, and it said it 
hadnt received the letter. It responded after further contact in October 2022. Barclays stated 
that it was extremely sorry for the poor service and lack of communication from us. And 
that it had credited the account with £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do more than this. He said that there was no 
dispute that Mr B and Mrs B had been the victims of a distressing scam that gave the 
fraudsters access to the card and PIN used here. He didnt conclude that the payments 
ought to have been recognised as fraud and stopped given the way they were made. 
Barclays had accepted that it didnt allocate the case relating to the £10,000 payments and 
he considered this prolonged the distress caused by the fraudsters by two to three weeks. 
He thought that £400 in compensation was reasonable and said that complaint handling 
wasnt a separate regulated activity and only the account holders not the representative 
could be compensated as the complainant here.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree. Their representative said that they are elderly and experienced 
months of distress. This was more than about complaint handling. Barclays forgot to assign 
the case, the representative spent hours on the phone about this and contacted Barclays by 
email and social media when this could have been dealt with quickly. The customer service 
was atrocious. It is said that Barclays didnt supply CCTV to the authorities that had been 
requested. Mr B and Mrs B were disappointed at the view of our investigator given the time it 
had taken to reach this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides free informal dispute resolution for consumers. And as our investigator 
has said complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity.
Barclays has accepted it made errors and there is no dispute that Mr B and Mrs B were the 
victims of fraud. I need to decide whether it has done enough to compensate them for its 
actions, recognising the substantial element of distress caused to them by the fraudsters and 
that there would always be an element of inconvenience in dealing with this.
The money taken from the cash machine was refunded. And Barclays gave Mr B the 
impression hed get the debit card payments back quickly too. That wasnt the case and 
while there would always be a need for investigation of these larger payments there was an 
avoidable delay. Im not persuaded on the information that it ought to have stopped these 
payments at the outset as Mrs B says happened to an attempted payment with her debit 
card from a different financial business.
The representative has set out the calls and contact made before and after the refund and I 
agree that this is more than about complaint handling and shouldnt have all been 
necessary. I also agree with our investigator that I am looking at the impact for Mr B and  
Mrs B as complainants here and wouldnt be compensating their representative or 
considering any other contact with a third party.
As far as the complaints were concerned my understanding and which seems confirmed 
from their bank statement is that Barclays initially paid compensation of £25 on 17 March 
2022 for service issues and £25 on 4 April 2022 for the delays in relation to an earlier 
complaint reference number. It seemed to have considered one complaint as a duplication. It 
also says that it didnt receive a complaint letter in May 2022. It then as has been said paid 
£400 which Mr B was never happy with and his representative wasnt given the opportunity 
of discussing this with Barclays as had been requested.
Ive taken into account our published guidance about compensation. We dont make punitive 
awards. Ive assessed what has been said on behalf of Mr B and Mrs B and about the 
distress and inconvenience and that there was a delay in them getting their money back. 
And the accepted deficiencies in service and communication. Having done so I know that 
they will remain disappointed when I say that I think that Barclays actions have been 
sufficient here and I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
need do no more than it has already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman