DRN-3759590
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him for funds he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr J invested with company D between September 2020 and March 2021. He realised they 
were a scam after he attempted to log into his account and he couldnt access the website or 
get hold of his contacts. He contacted HSBC about the scam and subsequently raised a 
complaint when it didnt agree to reimburse him for his losses. HSBC didnt uphold the 
complaint and so Mr J came to our service.
Our investigators final assessment of the case was that it was one we shouldnt uphold. She 
thought HSBC failed to act during the scam and shouldve intervened on high payments Mr J 
sent in early October 2020. But she didnt think that the scam wouldve been unravelled as a 
result of this call.
Mr J and his representative disagreed. They provided detailed further testimony on why an 
intervention wouldve made a difference. The case has been passed to me for review and to 
issue a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out to both parties that she considered HSBC shouldve intervened on 
Mr Js payment to this scam in October 2020. Im in agreement with her on this, as while I 
can see he did have a history of investing, theres a distinct uplift in his spending at the 
beginning of October 2020 and £75,000 is paid out in three days.
Mr Js representative has referenced his statements and what its referred to as Mr Js usual 
financial activity as evidence of why earlier investing in the scam was unusual for Mr J. I 
note it has been selective on what information it has relied on here. For example it has only 
referenced three months, from mid-May to mid-August 2020. In doing so its failed to 
mention that in April 2020  six months before the scam  Mr J invested over £50,000 in six 
payments. And that four days after the August dates it has referenced, Mr J made a £9,000 
genuine investment payment. 
The scam started in September 2020 and during this month Mr J invested £44,225. While 
this is generally a high figure, as above, in April 2020 Mr J had invested £50,000. And the 
payments he sent in September 2020 were either equal to or less than the values he sent to 
make up the April 2020 investment. So I dont consider these unusual enough for his 
account that Id say HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene at an earlier time in this scam.
Therefore what is left to decide here is whether an intervention in early October 2020 
wouldve unravelled the scam and stopped Mr J making any further payments.
Mr J and his representative have said our service has based its outcome to date on 
assumptions. But HSBC didnt call Mr J in October 2020. So its not possible to base the 
outcome on what did happen in this call. My role is to decide what I consider is most likely to 
have happened if a call had gone ahead  and I will do this by weighing up the evidence we 
hold. 
A key consideration in this case is therefore what Mr J wouldve said if his payment had 
been blocked when hed been called by HSBC. Its clear there are some facts about his case 
that mean HSBC couldve been concerned Mr J was the victim of a scam, for example the 
use of remote access software - AnyDesk. However, I can also see that Mr J had some 
investment experience; and in his initial submissions weve been told that he was aware 
cryptocurrency was unregulated and he believed D was based outside of the U.K., so 
wouldnt be linked to the FCA.
There isnt a set list of questions that a business is required to ask when it intervenes on a 
payment. And when intervening, HSBC is entitled to base what questions it asks and how far 
it takes the conversation on the answers given. So a good intervention relies on both the 
business asking appropriate questions and the consumer giving honest answers.
I cant say that HSBC therefore needed to specifically ask about software applications such 
as AnyDesk. What it did need to ask was more general questions about what Mr J was doing 
and why. It does seem Mr J had looked into this sort of investment and understood, to some 
degree, about cryptocurrency. And hed also looked into D. And as above, he had previous 
investment experience. So Im satisfied he wouldve been able to answer these questions 
clearly and also wouldve been confident about what he was doing. There were no warnings 
about D and the reviews online were positive at the time, according to Mr J. And he wasnt 
expecting it to be regulated if questions around this came up. So I cant see that there were 
any clear red flags for HSBC to pick up on from the general kind of questions we expect.
Mr J has told us he had no reason to not share the details of what he was doing and how it 
was done with HSBC. So if hed been questioned, hed have been open and honest and due 
to this the scam wouldve unravelled. But Im not persuaded this is true or what wouldve 
happened.
As part of the scam, Mr J applied for a loan with HSBC. Hes told us that he wasnt dishonest 
when he applied for the loan and that he truthfully explained it was for personal use. His 
representative has explained Mr J needed the loan as most of his money was tied up in 
investments and the loan couldve been used for him and his family to take a holiday or treat 
themselves. However when they first wrote to us, they said he tried to take it out declaring it 
was for investment/shares and wasnt able to. So the testimony provided has changed since 
the initial complaint.Looking at the loan application, it states its for: Holiday, purchase a new car and flexibility of 
spending money when needed. But I note that Mr J emailed D and let it know I have 
applied for the £25,000 loan and waiting to hear back on 4 February 2021 and the loan was 
granted on 5 February 2021. So it does in fact seem the initial testimony provided by the 
representative is the most accurate. I cant see any reason Mr J would contact D and let it 
know he was applying for a loan that he had no intention of investing. And the loan being 
used to gain a better account status does fit with Mr Js increased investing at that time. But 
this therefore means that on not initially being able to get the loan, Mr J gave a false reason 
for applying to make sure he could go ahead.
Mr J has also shared with us an email he sent to D towards the end of December 2020, 
referencing withdrawals, he says:
obviously I need to know from you how I can get around any likely issues/ questions 
from my bank as I have no previous knowledge of what they might say.
And in another email from February 2021, in reference to providing information to his 
financial advisor, he says:
Shall I simply say that I need £187,000 now in addition to the mortgage and savings 
for a house purchase? They do not know that I am involved in Crypto.
Mr J has said that he wasnt provided with a cover story or coached by D, so he wouldve 
been honest with the bank if they had questioned him about the investment. And I accept 
that he wasnt told to be dishonest by D, I cant see any indication of this in any of the 
correspondence he has shared. But despite this, it is clear that he was choosing not share 
information about what he was doing in relation to this investment. He wasnt honest with his 
financial advisor about what was happening. Or with his bank when it came to applying for 
the loan and was looking to get around concerns his bank had with him receiving funds. So 
its difficult to be persuaded by Mr Js testimony that he wouldve been honest with the bank 
if questioned at an earlier time, as I cant see he had reason to not be honest at other times 
in relation to this investment, but he chose not to be. Instead it seems more likely Mr J was 
confident with what he was doing and wanted to be allowed to continue to do so. 
I do appreciate that the instances detailed above were all after the intervention call shouldve 
taken place. And so Mr J was more (and more) invested in the scam at those times. 
However, by the time I consider HSBC shouldve intervened, Mr J had already invested 
around £100,000. So he was already heavily invested and from his statements, had cashed 
in another investment to fund this one, which suggests a high degree of confidence.
I accept Mr J has lost a very large sum to this investment. But Im not persuaded that an 
intervention call by HSBC wouldve stopped him going ahead with this investment. The only 
concerning factor at that time does seem to be the use of AnyDesk and as above, I cant say 
HSBC had to specifically ask about this. And considering how Mr J did deal with third party 
involvement at other times in the scam, I dont think he wouldve proactively volunteered 
information that wouldve unravelled this scam. 
In terms of any recovery options, I have considered these. But as Mr J was sending all his 
funds to genuine cryptocurrency platforms, the firms he paid from his HSBC account did 
provide the service he asked for and are not themselves, scammers. So there are no 
recovery options available to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman