DRN-1575732
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the customer service he received from Think Money Limited, when he 
called to discuss the account he holds with them. 
What happened
Mr W has a bank account with Think Money. In October 2019 he called to discuss and 
update details of his account. The call was cut of unexpectedly. Mr W rang back the same 
day and was able to speak to another representative.
Mr W complained that Think Money had terminated the first call and provided poor customer 
service. 
Think Money acknowledged that the first call appeared to have been ended by its 
representative. It said its records indicated the first representative had started the process of 
calling Mr W back after this, by getting contact details from his account. But the 
representative had then noticed that Mr W had already called back in and was talking to 
someone else, so they took no further action. Based on this Think Money thought the call 
ending was due to human error and not done on purpose. But it acknowledged this shouldnt 
have happened and apologised.
Unhappy with this response Mr W asked our service to look into the complaint. He said in 
addition to being unhappy the call was ended, hed been given conflicting information about 
whether Think Money had tried to call him back. 
An investigator reviewed the matter. They felt the apology made by Think Money was fair 
and didnt think it was reasonable to ask it to do more - as Mr W had not incurred any 
financial loss and had been able to speak to Think Money again the same day.
Mr W did not agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. As a result the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the call Mr W made to Think Money that was ended abruptly. 
Based on what Ive heard there is nothing in the call that leads me to think that this was 
ended purposefully by the representative of Think Money. Think Money has acknowledged 
that the call was ended by it but has said that this was accidental. And I think that is likely the 
case. Think Money has apologised. And I think that is fair.
Mr W has said he was given conflicting information about whether an attempt to call him 
back had been made. Think Money has explained that a call back was not attempted. And it 
has explained this was because Mr W had already called it back. I think that explanation is 
reasonable. It is unfortunate if this wasnt explained clearly to Mr W to begin with. I know Mr W is unhappy with what happened. And I can understand why he was frustrated at 
having to make a further call to Think Money. But Think Money has apologised, he was able 
to contact them again shortly after the problem occurred and I dont think this has caused 
Mr W a financial loss. So overall, I dont think Think Money needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman