DRN-3692976
The complaint
Mr T complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited didnt disable the auto 
renew facility on his policy when he purchased it, misadvised him about this, and then he 
had to make a further call to disable it when he found out it was still active. 
  
What happened
Mr T took out insurance with LV. 
He says he selected not to have auto renewal when he completed the proposal and saved 
the proposal as he wasnt quite ready to proceed.  
Two weeks later he took up the policy online, deselecting the auto renew, and followed up 
with a phone call to make sure the auto renew was disabled. He says he was advised that it 
was. 
However, he later found out it was still active, and he called LV again to change it.  
Mr T complained to LV and they gave him £10 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr T was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and he initially thought he should be 
awarded £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience but following further evidence 
from LV regarding their records he changed his view and said that LVs original offer of £10 
was fair. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint and I will explain why. 
Its clear from Mr Ts correspondence that not having a policy auto renew is something thats 
very important to him, and that is why he wanted to make sure he deselected the option 
when he took out the policy. 
However, he says this was not easy to do as the process for purchasing online doesnt make 
it very clear. 
Mr T thought that he had deselected the option, and he says that to make sure he rang up 
following taking out his policy and was assured that everything was as he wanted. However, 
I havent seen evidence of this or of the call in LVs records, so Im unable to say for certain 
whether Mr T did successfully deselect this option or what was confirmed in this call.   
However, I have seen evidence that when Mr T contacted LV after receiving his policy 
documents they did implement that change and the auto renew was tuned off. This was prior 
to the commencement date of the policy. 
Whilst I can understand how frustrating this would have been for Mr T to have to make the 
extra call, there was no detriment to Mr T caused by this, and I agree with the investigator 
that £10 gesture of goodwill is sufficient compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
    
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and I wont be asking Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman