DRN-2122481
The complaint
Miss C is complaining that she thinks a car Oodle Financial Services Limited supplied her 
under a hire purchase agreement is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2019 Miss C entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. The 
cash price of the car was around £11,000, it was around three years old and had travelled 
around 19,000 miles.
In June 2019 Miss C complained about issues she was having with the car, notably:
the windows kept going up and down;
parking sensors were going off intermittently;
the ABS warning light kept flashing up red;
the battery warning light kept flashing up red; and
she hadnt been given the locking wheel nut for her alloy wheels.
The supplying dealership inspected the car, but it said it couldnt find any evidence of a fault. 
But it paid to have the wheel nuts replaced.
Oodle arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. And the engineer said he 
couldnt find any evidence of a fault with the car in line with what Miss C had reported. He 
said there was a fault code identified which he said would need further inspection. However, 
he also said there was evidence of a poor previous repair to the car. 
In October 2019 Miss C enquired about part-exchanging the car. She also highlighted that 
further issues had arisen with the car  notably that the car was struggling to change gear 
and she said it felt unsafe to drive. 
The car went back to the supplying dealership who cleared the fault code and it said it was a 
historic code. It said it test drove the car extensively and said it couldnt find any faults with it.  
Miss C complained to Oodle and maintained there were still faults with the car and she said 
she wanted to reject it. But Oodle said it didnt think there was anything to show there was a 
fault with the car. Miss C didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. 
Since then, Miss C has provided evidence that another warning light has appeared on her 
dashboard. She also provided videos which she says shows the car juddering and also of 
the alleged poor repair. She maintained the car wasnt safe to drive because she says it was 
pulling to the right. She thinks the supplying dealership should have told her the car had 
previously been involved in an accident. And she said she wouldnt have bought the car had 
she been told this.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
There are two things I need to decide in this case:
1. Are there faults with Miss Cs car that mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale; and if so
2. What should Oodle do to put things right?
Miss C acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Oodle is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Miss C paid around 
£11,000 for the car. The car was around three years old and had travelled 19,000 miles at 
the point of supply. 
Miss C says shes had a number of issues from when she first acquired the car  notably 
issues with the braking system, the windows going up and down and issues with the 
gearbox. But Im conscious that the car was inspected by the supplying dealership on two 
occasions and also an independent engineer, neither of which found any evidence of the 
faults Miss C has referred to. And it is ultimately Miss Cs responsibility to demonstrate there 
are faults with the car.
However I note the independent engineer did highlight evidence of a poor previous repair. 
Miss C has also shown that the engine stability control warning light has come on her 
dashboard since the engineer inspection. In respect to the repair work, the engineer has 
highlighted the following:
Body panels appear damaged on the inside;
Body panels on the left-hand side dont line up;
There was a mis-match on the colour of the paint; and
There was preparation marks in the paint on the nearside rear bumper.
The engineer said that he didnt think the repairs were of a commercially acceptable 
standard. Im conscious that Miss C had only travelled around 400 miles since she acquired 
the car, so I think its likely this repair was done before Miss C acquired the car. So, it follows 
that I think the issues were present at the point of sale.
I acknowledge Oodle has said it doesnt think its unreasonable to expect to see some 
repairs on a used car. But I think this has to be considered against the fact that the car was 
still relatively new and had only travelled around 19,000 miles at the point of supply. In 
particular its important to note the cash price of the car was nearly £11,000. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to see the issues the engineer highlighted in respect to the 
previous car on a car of this age, price and mileage. So I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The CRA sets out the remedies available to Miss C where a car is found to not be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Miss C would like to reject the car and hand it back 
to Oodle. But, apart from within the first 30 days of acquiring the car, she isnt able to reject it 
until theres been a repair which wasnt successful or it wasnt done in a reasonable period of 
time. So I think the key issue in this matter is whether a request to repair has taken place or 
not.
Miss C initially complained about the quality of the car and the car went to the supplying 
dealership for an inspection, but no faults were found. I acknowledge the supplying 
dealership paid to replace the wheel nuts as it didnt provide the locking wheel nut when it supplied the car. But I dont think this would be considered a repair as I dont think not 
having the locking wheel nut would be considered a fault or have made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Oodle subsequently agreed to pay for an independent inspection, but this similarly didnt 
highlight any of the faults Miss C had raised. I think both of these would be considered an 
inspection rather than a request to repair. So Im not persuaded that any attempts to repair 
had taken place before this point.
Ive similarly thought about whats happened since the independent inspection report. The 
report highlighted a fault code with the car. I can see that in October 2019 the car went to the 
supplying dealership for a further inspection. The dealership says this was a historic fault 
code and it said it simply reset it. I havent seen anything to show this fault code has 
materialised again. So Im not persuaded that this showed an actual fault with the car. 
As I said, I think the independent report showed there were issues with a poor repair. But I 
havent seen anything to show that Miss C has asked Oodle or the supplying dealership to 
fix this issue before. So I dont think I can say that theres been an attempt to repair the car. 
Given this, I dont think Miss C has the right to reject the car. However, I do think Oodle 
should repair the issues highlighted by the independent report. It should also investigate 
whats causing the engine stability control warning light to come on and repair the fault if it 
feels liable for it  taking into account the cars age, price, mileage and the limited amount of 
miles Miss C has travelled in it. 
I acknowledge Miss C feels strongly that she should be allowed to reject the car. But for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think I can say she has the right to reject it. Ive also 
thought about her comment that the supplying dealership should have told her the car had 
been involved in an accident. But I dont think it needed to do so. I havent seen anything to 
show there were any adverse markers recorded on the cars HPI record.
I appreciate Miss C is unhappy with the quality of the car and shes said shes not felt safe 
driving it. But I havent seen enough to show that it wasnt safe to drive. And ultimately, I 
havent seen enough to support that the car has the faults she says it does. So I think she 
was able to have a fair usage of the car. Given this, I dont think Oodle needs to refund any 
of the payments Miss C has paid towards the finance.
Oodle didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss C didnt accept it and raised the 
following points:
Shes provided videos to show the faults she says shes been having with the car since 
the start. She also provided photographs of the warning lights that she says were on the 
car in October 2019;
She provided a screenshot of the cars dashboard which showed the car was in reverse, 
but it was in park on her driveway;
The car recently had smoke coming from the engine when she drove to the shops.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points Miss C has provided, but I dont think shes provided 
anything significantly new that she hadnt provided before. So I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.Ive reviewed the videos Miss C has resent us. As I set out in my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied there are faults with the car. But the issue is whether I think Miss C has the right to 
reject the car or not. My provisional decision sets out when she has the right to reject the 
car. And it sets out why I dont think she has the right to reject the car yet. I dont dispute that 
the videos show theres a fault with her car. But I have to think whether she has the right to 
reject the car. Ultimately, I still havent seen anything to show that Miss C has asked Oodle 
or the supplying dealership to fix the issues raised by the independent report before. And 
Miss C hasnt given me anything I hadnt considered before when I issued my provisional 
decision.
Further issues have arisen with the car since the independent report. But I dont think Oodle 
has had the opportunity to investigate this. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, 
Oodle should also investigate whats causing the engine stability control warning light to 
come on and repair the fault if it feels liable for it  taking into account the cars age, price, 
mileage and the limited amount of miles Miss C has travelled in it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and require Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to arrange to fix the issues highlighted by the engineer in respect 
to a poor previous repair. It should also investigate whats causing the engine stability control 
warning light to come on and repair the fault if it feels liable for it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman