DRN-1809057
The complaint
Mr C complains that RBS (Royal Bank of Scotland Plc) made a number of errors and 
provided poor service when dealing with a loan application.
What happened
Mr C contacted RBS as he wanted to reconsolidate an existing loan and borrow a further 
£3,000 for a new car. The soft search had shown the loan would likely be approved, so Mr C 
put £100 deposit down on a second-hand car. When Mr C tried to make a full application for 
the loan however, it was rejected. RBS said that this was due to a bank error and attempted 
a further 3 applications. 2 of these were without Mr Cs presence or knowledge. This affected 
Mr Cs credit rating. All of the applications failed.
The final loan application went to appeal and was then accepted, but due to the delay, Mr C 
had paid for the car out of his personal savings. When the loan was approved, it was a 
different rate to what had been previously quoted, so Mr C wasnt happy and didnt continue 
with the loan. 
Mr C complained to RBS, saying he hadnt got the loan that was previously discussed. Hes 
unhappy his credit file was affected by the four loan applications and as two of them were 
without his approval, he considers this a data breach and has taken his concerns to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Hes also unhappy with the service hes been 
provided, both during the application process and trying to resolve it. He said he was given 
the impression the loan would be approved and hes been given misleading and inaccurate 
information throughout. He wants RBS to pay the £3,000 that he paid for the car to rectify 
the situation. 
RBS apologised that multiple applications were processed and removed the foot print from 
Mr Cs credit file for all applications made. It acknowledged its level of customer service 
hasnt been very good and gave him £750 to compensate for the issues Mr C had 
experienced. Mr C didnt feel this went far enough, so brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and although he agreed that RBS had made 
several errors and provided poor service, he was satisfied that it had done enough to put 
things right by offering £750 compensation. He also said that regarding any potential data 
breach, the ICO is the more appropriate body to investigate that, rather than our service. 
Mr C disagreed. He said that he felt more compensation was appropriate and as the ICO 
doesnt award compensation, he wanted the complaint looked at by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything Mr C has 
said, but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr C considers RBS may have breached data protection laws with its handling of the loan 
application. But its not within my remit to determine whether theres been a breach of data 
protection regulations. This is the remit of the ICO, which I understand Mr C has already 
contacted. I have, however, taken into account all relevant laws and regulations when 
reviewing this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that RBS made multiple loan applications on Mr Cs behalf, 
or that 2 of these were done without Mr Cs authorisation. RBS have also accepted the level 
of service was below standard. So, I need to decide if the settlement offered is reasonable. 
I can understand that Mr C would be frustrated by not being able to obtain the loan that he 
had originally discussed. Its clear Mr C has been put to some inconvenience as a result  he 
purchased the new car from his own savings due to the delays, had his credit file affected 
and has spent a lot of time trying to rectify the matter, directly with RSB, the ICO and 
ourselves. 
While I appreciate Mr C wanted to collect the car on a prearranged date, from listening to the 
calls, I understand that RBS did suggest he rearrange collection, due to the delays getting 
the funding. RBS terms and conditions also state that Payments should not be made until 
the loan amount credits your account, as we can decide not to lend before this point. I 
therefore think it was Mr Cs decision to purchase the car before the loan had been fully 
approved and RBS cant be held responsible for this. 
I can see that Mr Cs credit file was affected by the 4 applications being made. I understand 
this has now been rectified and RBS have removed all four of the applications from credit 
file, which I think was the right thing to do. Mr C feels this prevented him from being able to 
apply for some items and services during the time the credit file was affected. However, Mr 
C hasnt provided any evidence of these failed applications so it would be unreasonable to 
ask RBS to pay additional compensation on this basis.
Mr C was also unhappy that the rate of interest to be paid on the loan was higher when it did 
get approved than when previously discussed. It would have been a matter of commercial 
judgement on the part of RBS as to what money it was prepared to lend to Mr C and on what 
terms. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong by the interest rate changing later on in 
the application process. But having listened to the calls provided, I do think RBS couldve 
made it clearer to Mr C that this could happen. 
Ive considered whether £750 is appropriate compensation for the impact RBSs
errors have had. I understand the frustration and inconvenience that has been caused but 
Im satisfied £750 is sufficient to compensate for the upset Mr C experienced as a result of 
RBS mistakes. Therefore, Im not asking it to pay anything further.My final decision
I am aware that RBS PLC has made an offer to pay Mr C £750 compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience caused by the banks errors and poor service. I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My decision is that RBS Plc should pay Mr C £750 as offered, if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman