DRN-2900404
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about the way Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus) blocked and closed its account. 
One of Cs directors, Mr S, brings the complaint on its behalf. Hes been represented at 
various points by an employee and his solicitor, but Ill generally attribute their actions to C 
for ease of reference.
What happened
C held a business account with Cashplus.
On 21 October 2019, Cashplus reviewed the account and restricted Cs access while it did 
so. 
Following the review, Cashplus emailed C on 4 November 2019 to say that it had decided to 
close the account on 8 January 2020. It said that, in the meantime, all inbound payments 
would be returned to the sender  but that card and outbound payments would still be 
processed as normal. And it told C to ensure that the funds held on the account  of around 
£123,000 at the time  were removed before the closure date.
Mr S complained. In addition to being unhappy that C couldnt use the account, he said that 
there were discrepancies with the account balance provided by Cashplus, which was almost 
£7,000 less than it should be. 
Cashplus didnt uphold Cs complaint. In summary, it said that it had restricted Cs access to 
the account in order to fulfil its regulatory obligations  and that this was in accordance with 
the terms and conditions. It reiterated that C could access the balance, but that payments 
couldnt be made into the account. And its investigations didnt reveal any discrepancy with 
the balance  but it would investigate this further if Mr S could provide some evidence.
Mr S and solicitors acting on Cs behalf continued to correspond with Cashplus about the 
matter over the months that followed, raising in particular that:
Attempted payments from Cs account had failed despite Cashplus informing Mr S 
that outbound payments could be made;
Incoming payments hadnt been returned to the sender as expected; 
The account discrepancy remained unresolved and hadnt been properly investigated 
by Cashplus; and
The account balance hadnt been released, despite a number of attempts through 
various means and despite Cashpluss assertion that outbound payments could 
continue as normal. 
With no resolution, Mr S asked us to look into the matter.
Following our involvement, Cashplus released the account balance to Mr Ss personal 
account on 4 May 2020. And while the complaints been with us, Mr S confirmed that the 
apparent discrepancy with the account balance has been resolved.
Mr S wants Cashplus to compensate C for the impact on its business of the account 
restriction and the delay in releasing the account balance. He says that C wasnt able to pay 
staff or suppliers, and that he had to use his own funds to meet the companys obligations. 
And he says that Cashplus made it harder to resolve the matter by declining to deal directly 
with Cs solicitor, despite his instruction to do so.
Mr S also says that payments made to the account werent returned to the sender as quickly 
as they ought to have been. And as Cashplus hasnt provided a breakdown of these 
payments, hes not been able to check that all payments have been returned. Hes 
concerned that Cashplus is retaining money to which it isnt entitled. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in March, setting out why I intended to uphold Cs complaint in 
part and what I thought Cashplus needed to do to put things right. I said:
The review and restriction of Cs account
Cashplus has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks (and banking service providers) are 
required to keep accounts and their use under review, and may need to suspend 
access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Cs account allowed Cashplus to suspend its services. 
Cashplus has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case and 
that its actions were reasonable. And while I appreciate that it wouldve been 
concerning for Mr S to discover the restriction, Cashplus wasnt required to notify C 
of the restriction or explain the reasons for its decision.
While the review was ongoing, payments werent allowed in or out of the account. 
The review was completed within ten working days, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I recognise that the restriction wouldve caused C some 
inconvenience during this time. But as Ive not found that Cashplus did anything 
wrong in undertaking the review or applying the restriction, it follows that I dont think 
it is responsible for any loss or inconvenience this caused C. 
The closure of the account and the ability to make and receive payments
Cashplus was entitled to decide that it no longer wished to provide services to C. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong in closing the account.
Cashplus provided C with 60 days notice of its intention to close the account, as 
provided for within the terms and conditions. I think this gave C a reasonable period 
of time in which to make alternative arrangements.
Incoming paymentsCashpluss email of 4 November 2019 giving this notice explained that C wouldnt be 
able to receive any payments into the account, and that all inbound payments would 
be returned to the sender. So I dont think Cashplus did anything wrong in rejecting 
payments made to the account from the point at which it gave C notice. 
Mr S says that Cashplus didnt properly return all inbound payments to the sender as 
it said it would. He says that some were returned belatedly, while hes not sure if all 
payments were returned at all. Cashplus says it attempted to return all payments 
made to the account, but some bounced back repeatedly. In those instances, 
Cashplus says it retained the funds and applied them to the balance that was later 
released. 
From what Ive seen I think Cashplus took reasonable steps to return inbound 
payments to the sender. I say this because its internal records show a number of 
payments being returned, and I have no reason to think that it treated any inbound 
payment differently from another. And I think it would be reasonable to credit the 
account with any payments that couldnt be successfully returned, rather than leaving 
them unclaimed. I also note that a number of these payments were being attempted 
long after the account was closed, by which time I think C ought reasonably to have 
made alternative arrangements to receive them.
At the same time though, I think Mr S has some legitimate concern as to which 
payments were returned and where they werent, whether they were credited to C. 
Hes previously asked Cashplus for a breakdown so that he can check  and this 
seems a reasonable request.
So I think Cashplus should provide Mr S with a breakdown of inbound payments to 
the account on or after 21 October 2019, with a note of the date on which they were 
either successfully returned to the sender or applied to Cs account balance. If Mr S 
retains any concerns with any of the transactions, he can raise these by way of a 
new complaint to Cashplus  so that it has the appropriate opportunity to investigate, 
respond and, if necessary, put things right.
Outgoing payments
In respect of outgoing transactions, Cashpluss email of 4 November 2019 said:
 you can still use your Cashplus card for cash withdrawals and any 
purchases, and any outbound payments will still be processed as 
normal (assuming sufficient funds remain).
Mr S has provided evidence of a number of outgoing payments that were 
unsuccessful. Many of these occurred within the review period  as Ive explained 
above, the account restriction that was in place until 4 November 2019 meant that 
those payments were legitimately blocked. But Mr S has also provided evidence of a 
number of attempted online transfers after 4 November 2019, which were 
unsuccessful. And he thinks thats down to an error on Cashpluss part.
The issue here is that it was only card transactions that were still permitted. And 
while I think that Cashplus was entitled to restrict the account activity in that way for 
the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think it clearly explained this to C  and I note 
its acceptance of this in its letter to Mr Ss solicitor of 20 January 2020. I can see how 
Mr S wouldve thought from the line quoted above that all outgoing payments would 
be processed, rather than just those made by card. I also think Cashplus missed opportunities to clarify the position to Mr S when he called in and outlined the issues 
as he encountered them.
I think this put C to some avoidable inconvenience. It was always going to have to 
find an alternative way to make the payments in question  including making 
arrangements to remove the account balance  but it spent time and trouble 
attempting a number of online payments and following up on the matter with 
Cashplus that it need not have.
The release of the account balance
Cashpluss email of 4 November 2019 told Mr S that he needed to ensure the funds 
were removed from the account by the closure date of 8 January 2020.
Initially, Mr S attempted to do this by transferring funds to his own account. But as set 
out above this wasnt possible. So he contacted Cashplus in early December 2019. 
Cashplus said that the funds would have to be sent by cheque. There then seems to 
have been a delay in Cashplus requesting the cheque (on 9 January 2020) and in 
sending it (17 March 2020). 
The cheque was made out to C. This is what Id expect Cashplus to have done  the 
funds belonged to C, so the default position would be to release them to C. But 
following the closure of the account, Mr S advised that C no longer had an account 
and so was unable to pay in the cheque. The directors subsequently asked that the 
funds be paid to Cs solicitor, but again I think it was reasonable for Cashplus to 
decline this with a view to paying either C or its directors. Ive also noted that 
Cashplus declined to deal directly with Cs solicitor despite its written request. It 
explained that it required verbal authority to do so from Mr S, which I think was a 
reasonable step for security purposes. 
In the end, on receipt of a signed instruction from the directors and identification 
documents, Cashplus transferred the account balance to Mr S on 4 May 2020. I think 
this was a reasonable alternative in the circumstances. But I think the release of the 
funds ought to have been completed much earlier  and at least by the time the 
account was closed. 
This means that C was deprived of the use of the funds for longer than necessary, 
between January and May. So Ive thought about whether it suffered a financial loss 
as a result. But I dont think it did.
In response to our questions about the impact of the matter on C, Mr S explained that 
losses were based on the stress and trauma caused to the Directors and staff. Ill 
come on to the trouble and upset these issues may understandably have caused 
below. But in terms of a financial loss, it seems that none was actually suffered by C. 
It was able to make other arrangements to pay staff and suppliers, and Ive not seen 
that it incurred additional costs as a result. 
Mr S has highlighted the legal fees C has incurred in connection with the matter. But 
it was a matter of choice for C to engage a solicitor to deal with the issues it was 
experiencing. So Im not intending to direct Cashplus to reimburse C for any legal 
fees its incurred.
I do, though, think that Cashplus needs to compensate C for the inconvenience 
caused by its shortcomings in both arranging the release of the account balance and 
explaining how outgoing payments would be affected. C attempted a number of online payments that were never going to work, and had to find alternative 
arrangements to meet its commitments over a prolonged period while it awaited the 
release of its funds. Im currently intending to require Cashplus to pay it 
compensation of £500 for this inconvenience. 
I appreciate that these issues will also have caused Mr S stress, worry and upset. 
And I understand from what hes told us that being without funds led to delays in 
paying staff, causing them concern too. But I can only award compensation to C  
because it was Cashpluss customer and is the complainant for our purposes. And C 
cant have suffered distress or any other emotional impact as its a limited company. 
The company was put to some inconvenience, for which I think £500 would be fair 
compensation. 
C didnt accept my provisional decision. It replied to say, in summary, that:
C had been required to instruct solicitors given how Cashplus had dealt with it about 
the matter. And it wasnt reasonable to expect busy customers to have the knowhow 
or persistence to pursue this matter for the requisite period  and further delays 
wouldve been incurred but for the solicitors involvement. So it should be reimbursed 
for the legal fees it had incurred.
C had provided Cashplus with appropriate authority to deal with its solicitors verbally 
on a number of occasions and in writing at least twice, but still Cashplus refused to 
engage with them.
As standing orders and direct debits had been cancelled, C had suffered a loss of 
income. And its employees and suppliers hadnt been paid on time, and it had to 
borrow money to help with cashflow. So it should be compensated for this. 
The compensation award Id proposed for the inconvenience C had been caused 
should be higher  taking into account how Cashplus had used and benefitted from 
the retained funds.
It thought there were systemic problems with the regulatory regime that required 
wider consideration by policymakers and other stakeholders.
Cashplus also responded and said that the delays in receiving the account balance were 
due to Mr Ss reluctance to go through the appropriate steps including giving approval to 
deal directly with Cs solicitors. So it felt that any inconvenience caused couldve been 
avoided, and as such that the £500 compensation Id proposed was excessive. Cashplus 
also said that Mr S had continued to claim that the closing balance was incorrect, but didnt 
respond to its request to evidence which values were missing.
After considering the further submissions from both parties, I issued a second provisional 
decision earlier this month. Addressing the further points from both sides, I explained that 
most of my findings remained unchanged  but I thought Cashplus needed to do more to put 
things right. I said: 
Firstly, Cashplus points out that Mr S continued to claim that the closing balance was 
incorrect, before later declining to respond with any evidence to support his position. I 
dont think this is in dispute and its not relevant to my provisional findings. As detailed 
in the background section in that decision and as quoted above, while the complaint 
has been with us C confirmed that there was no outstanding query regarding the 
balance  so Ive not looked into that further.Cashplus also maintains that it wasnt responsible for the delay in C obtaining its 
funds. It says the delay couldve been avoided if Mr S had called its customer service 
team to give the requisite approval to deal directly with the solicitor  and believes this 
was the sole reason for the delay. I dont agree with that. As I set out in my first 
provisional decision, after Mr S contacted Cashplus about obtaining Cs funds in early 
December 2019, there was then a delay in Cashplus requesting the necessary cheque 
(which it did on 9 January 2020) and sending it (17 March 2020). This predated the 
request for payment to made to Cs solicitor as an alternative method of releasing the 
funds. It was an unreasonable delay on Cashpluss part.
After the cheque was issued, it still took a further couple of months for C to obtain its 
funds. But I dont think this was the result of anything Cashplus did wrong. Initially this 
was the result of C being unable to cash the cheque because it no longer held an 
account. But as I explained in my first provisional decision, it was right for Cashplus to 
draw the cheque to C in the first instance. Further delay was incurred while C 
requested that Cashplus deal with its solicitors and pay the funds to them. But, also as 
set out in my previous provisional decision, Ive not found that Cashplus acted 
unreasonably in how it handled these requests. 
Ive considered Cs further comments on this and in particular that Mr S did provide the 
required verbal authority on numerous occasions. This isnt supported by the 
evidence of contact I have, or by the correspondence between the parties. Notably, an 
email from Cs solicitors to Cashplus in March 2020 referred to written authority having 
been given and challenging Cashpluss requirement for Mr S to call in light of that. So 
if verbal authority had already been given, I think it most likely this wouldve been 
referred to in this letter.
So I think errors on Cashpluss part meant that C was unfairly deprived the use of its 
funds, but only between 9 January 2020 and 17 March 2020. To compensate for this, I 
think it would be fair for Cashplus to pay C 8% simple interest on the account balance 
for this period. 
C says this should be applied to the whole period in which it was unable to access its 
funds, being from the date the account was first restricted. But as I dont think 
Cashplus did anything wrong in restricting and reviewing the account, I dont agree 
that would be fair in the circumstances. Its also worth noting that C wasnt deprived of 
access entirely  it was still able to make card payments in the months prior to the 
account closure, save for during the review.
C also says that in determining an award for compensation, I should consider how 
Cashplus might have benefitted from the retained funds. But I dont think thats 
necessary here. Were an informal dispute resolution service and our approach to 
compensation is to restore the complainant to the position that they would be in had 
any error by the financial business not occurred. Notwithstanding the obvious 
difficulties in identifying the exact amount of any financial benefit Cashplus derived by 
holding Cs funds for longer than necessary (which, as above, was a little over two 
months), I think the award of 8% simple interest fairly compensates C for the impact of 
this delay  also recognising that C itself may not have obtained such a return on the 
funds, were they to have been available. 
I also still think that £500 represents fair compensation for the inconvenience these 
issues caused C. Ive taken into account what Cashplus says about this, but as above 
I think the funds ought to have been released much sooner and C was inconvenienced 
by having to spend time and effort chasing things up and making alternative arrangements while without its funds. This remains the case even accepting any 
issues in arranging authority to deal with Cs solicitors. The award also factored in 
inconvenience caused by Cashplus failure to clearly explain that only card 
transactions would be possible after the notice to close the account had been issued.
With regard to this award, I note that in Cs response to my provisional decision it 
pointed to the absence of a breakdown or mathematical calculation for my proposed 
award. So its worth clarifying that in considering awards of this nature, we dont use 
either. We assess the overall impact of any errors and consider an amount in line with 
our general approach to the level of awards that we make. More information on our 
approach is available on our website. 
I appreciate that C doesnt feel my proposed compensation of £500 and 8% 
compensatory interest goes far enough. Ive carefully considered its claim and the 
points its made. But theyve not led me to a different conclusion.
In particular, C maintains that Cashplus should reimburse its legal fees. But while I 
understand its position, I still dont think that would be fair. I dont think the nature of 
the issue, or in how Cashplus was dealing with things, required C to engage 
solicitors  that was a matter of its choice. And although I accept a consideration of Cs 
may well have been the amount of time or resource it wanted to afford dealing with the 
issue, this was still within its own control. I also dont think I can fairly say that but for 
the solicitors involvement, the matter wouldve been any more difficult or time-
consuming to resolve.
C also says that other financial losses were incurred. But I set out in my provisional 
decision that Id not seen that it incurred any additional costs as a result of these 
issues. C has had several opportunities to provide details and evidence of these, but 
weve not received anything, including in its most recent submissions. 
C says that the cancellation of standing orders and direct debits caused a loss of 
income. But, as set out in my first provisional decision, I dont think Cashplus did 
anything wrong in restricting or closing the account  and any returned payments 
ought to be followed up on separately, in light of the breakdown of incoming payments 
that Ive said Cashplus should provide to C. Even accepting that C had to pay its staff 
and suppliers late  and borrow funds to aid cashflow  I still dont have anything to 
show that this left C out of pocket. And as Ive explained previously, Im only looking at 
the impact of these issues on C  so I cant consider how third parties, such as Cs 
employees, mightve been affected.
Finally, Ive noted Cs points regarding a wider regulatory issue and its strength of 
feeling here. But Im afraid this isnt something I can comment on. Our role is to review 
and resolve individual disputes  we dont regulate financial businesses, or monitor 
their compliance with any existing rules or regulations (outside of the complaints we 
investigate). So C would need to raise these broader concerns elsewhere.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my second provisional decision, but neither responded 
with any further comments or evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and with no new comments or evidence for me to take into account, I dont 
see any reason to depart from my second provisional decision. So this final decision 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint and require Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) to:
Provide to C a breakdown of incoming payments to the account from 21 October 
2019 onwards;
Calculate interest on the account balance from 9 January 2020 to 19 March 2020 at 
a rate of 8% simple per year and pay this amount to C; and
Pay C compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman