DRN-4134378
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N and Mrs N contacted LV to make a claim for storm damage to their home. LV sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. The claim was declined as the damage was found to be the 
result of wear and tear and poor workmanship.
Mr N and Mrs N complained because they said the roof was only about three years old and 
should be covered as there was a storm. They also said the surveyor took a long time to tell 
them the claim had been declined. When LV replied, it offered £100 for the delay in declining 
the claim.
When Mr N and Mrs N complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it 
was reasonable for LV to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear and poor 
workmanship.
As Mr N and Mrs N didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there was a storm around the time Mr N and Mrs N reported the 
damage. However, I also checked the weather conditions and saw evidence of storm 
conditions around that time. I also think a storm could, in some circumstances, cause the 
type of damage reported. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. This service would normally say it was reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on its experts findings. LVs surveyor assessed the damage and said:
Upon inspection of the sky lights which appear to be allowing minor water ingress to the 
property, there is evident workmanship issues combined with gradual build up of wear and 
tear. Policy Holder explained sky lights were fitted approx. 2-3 years ago. PH also stated that 
relationship broke down with builder and he doesn't builder provided a guarantee for the roof 
works. Upon close inspection to the external area of sky lights, it appears that the skylights 
have been poorly finished. There are areas of the skylight end caps which are loose and 
covered with heavy joints of mastic which are now decaying. Perimeter of glass where it 
meets perimeter of skylight, sealant has come away and deterioration of mastic and sealant 
on display. (As original)
Ive also looked at the surveyors photos, which showed the issues identified in the report. 
Mr N and Mrs N also provided a report from a roofer who inspected the roof for them. This 
described the works required, but didnt give any cause of damage. So, I havent seen 
anything that showed me LVs surveyors findings werent a fair assessment of the roof. So, 
based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for LV to decline the claim for storm 
damage on the basis of wear and tear and poor workmanship, neither of which were covered 
by the policy. 
Im aware Mr N and Mrs N had standard accidental damage cover under the policy. 
However, Ive looked at this cover and I am satisfied the damage also wasnt covered by that 
part of the policy.
Im aware Mr N and Mrs N have said they could obtain a surveyors report to show the 
damage was covered by the policy. LV has said it would consider new evidence if Mr N and 
Mrs N wanted to provide this. It is for Mr N and Mrs N to decide if they wish to provide LV 
with any further evidence or information so it can consider the claim further.
Mr N and Mrs N were also concerned about delays with declining the claim. LV accepted 
there was a delay in providing the claim outcome. It offered £100 compensation, which I am 
satisfied was reasonable in the circumstances.
Having looked at what happened, I dont uphold this complaint or require LV to do anything 
further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman