DRN-2015244
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd (DHLL) did not maintain her property after 
it was taken into possession in 2010. She says that as a result, when the property was 
subsequently sold in 2019, a lower price was achieved than would otherwise have been 
possible.
What happened
Mrs Ms property was taken into possession in 2010. Unfortunately, it appears there were 
problems with the charge DHLL held and it was not able to sell the property until the issue 
relating to the existence of two separate titles was resolved. I understand that, as DHLL had 
some difficulty resolving this issue, an order for sale was not granted over the leasehold title 
until 2018.
The property was then marketed and was sold in August 2019. 
Mrs M complained to DHLL about the sale price achieved. She said a higher price would 
have been achieved if DHLL had maintained the property after it was taken into possession 
in 2010.
DHLL noted Mrs M had previously complained about the possession of the property and the 
problems with the title. It explained that as these issues had already been considered it 
would not re-investigate them as part of this complaint.
It said it did not agree that the property had been sold for less than it was worth. In relation to 
the value of the property after it was taken into possession it said it did not agree that the 
property had depreciated in value due to neglect by DHLL, or its representatives. 
It said that in August 2018, it obtained three valuations for the sale of the property. The 
average sale price was £180,000. The property was then marketed for offers in the region of 
£200,000. Offers were initially received for £110,000 and £120,000. After some time on the 
market a sale price of £155,000 was achieved. Once costs incurred were deducted, DHLL 
received £147,721.68. This left a shortfall on Mrs Ms account.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with DHLLs response and referred her complaint to this service. She 
said DHLL hadnt maintained the property and as a result the sale price was much less than 
it would otherwise have been.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary that DHLL had appointed an agent to visit the property regularly after it was taken 
into possession.
He noted that in 2017 the council wrote to DHLLs agent to say that the garden was 
overgrown and needed to be dealt with. A gardening contractor was then arranged. 
DHLL said that the gardening contractor had reported that Mrs M had arrived at the property, 
while they were clearing the garden, and let herself in. It then came to light that a tenant was 
living in the property. As the property was occupied DHLL was required to get a new 
possession order before the property could be sold. The possession order was granted in 
June 2018. 
In early July 2018 a possession valuation report was carried out. The report noted a number 
of issues with the property including that the kitchen was in a poor condition and general 
redecoration and updating throughout was needed. It also noted there was evidence of rot in 
the living room floor and problems with the conservatory.
Our investigator said that he didnt think DHLL could be held responsible for any 
deterioration in the property. He noted that the property hadnt been marketed sooner due to 
problems with the title. Once this was sorted out it then had to get another possession order 
as a tenant was living in the property. 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. She said the property had been in a pristine 
condition before it was taken into possession in 2010 and she felt DHLL was responsible for 
the deterioration in its condition since then. She said she believed that a flood had occurred 
and kitchen cabinets had been torn off when DHLL took possession. Mrs M said she felt the 
property would have been worth £300,000 if it had been maintained.
Mrs M also said she didnt agree that there were tenants in the property. She said it would 
not have been habitable as no utilities were connected and the roof would have been off.
She said she didnt think anyone had been in the property before she entered it in August 
2017 when the gardening contractors were at the property. 
In summary she said she felt DHLL was responsible for maintaining the property from the 
day it took possession in June 2010 and it had neglected the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have very carefully considered everything Mrs M has said and provided in connection with 
this complaint. I appreciate that she feels DHLL should have done more to maintain the 
property.
DHLL has provided information to show that it appointed an agent to oversee the property 
after it was taken into possession and the locks were changed in 2010. It appears that 
regular inspections of the property were carried out by the agents appointed.
I also note that the council contacted DHLL about the overgrown garden at the property in 
2017. But I am mindful that if DHLL had arranged for ongoing gardening services from 2010 
these costs would have been added to Mrs Ms account in line with the terms of her 
mortgage. 
It is generally the case that any maintenance carried out on properties after they have been 
taken into possession is kept to a minimum to avoid incurring additional costs that the 
mortgage holder would be responsible for. As this is the case, I dont think it would have 
been reasonable for DHLL to have carried out ongoing maintenance on the property as the 
costs would have been added to Mrs Cs outstanding mortgage balance.
I note Mrs C says:There were no tenants. The property was uninhabitable, there would have been no utilities 
connected and the roof would have been off. Nobody had been in that property any time 
before I entered on 17th August Where is their proof of a tenant?
DHLL has provided this service with a copy of the tenancy agreement that the tenant in the 
property provided to its solicitor. The agreement was between Mrs C and the tenant and was 
dated 7 July 2017. I am also mindful that DHLL had to seek a possession order in mid-2018 
to remove the tenant before the property could be marketed.
In view of this I am satisfied that a tenant was living in the property.
With regard to whether the property was habitable; a tenant was living there until mid 2018, 
when the second possession order was obtained. I must also take into account that the 
report from the agent taking possession in June 2018, said the water and services were 
turned off following the possession. This indicates that the services had been re-connected 
again after the property was taken into possession in 2010. 
DHLL has provided photographs of the property, date stamped 2018. There is nothing in any 
of the photographs that suggest part of the roof was missing, on either the main part of the 
property, or the conservatory. Likewise, there is no reference to any part of the roof being 
damaged or missing in the valuation report carried out in July 2018.
Having very carefully considered all that has been said and provided, I cant reasonably find 
that DHLL did allow the property to deteriorate significantly after it took possession. It 
appears that the property was habitable as late as mid-2018 when DHLL took possession for 
the second time.
I appreciate that when the property was valued for sale in 2018 it was found to be affected 
by damp and there were some problems with the conservatory and the report indicated that 
the property was in need of updating. But I have not seen anything that would support 
Mrs Cs view that half the house not having a roof or that there had been Extensive 
flooding of property during repossession. 
It is very unfortunate that the property wasnt sold promptly after it was taken into 
possession. But I understand that DHLL wasnt in a position to instruct the sale of the 
property until the issues with title were resolved. It then had to take action to remove the 
tenant before the property could be marketed.
I dont think it would have been reasonable for DHLL to have incurred more costs than it did 
to maintain the property, after it took possession in 2010. Based on the information I have 
been provided it appears the property was habitable until at least mid-2018. As this is the 
case, I dont think it would have been fair for DHLL to have incurred additional costs carrying 
out work on the property as these costs would have been added to Mrs Cs outstanding 
debt.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman