DRN-3933941
The complaint
Miss W complained because she wasnt told she would receive tax relief on her pension 
contributions during a call to Scottish Equitable Plc in 2013. Shes also unhappy the 
recording of this call recording has been deleted.
What happened
In December 2013 Miss W called Scottish Equitable to stop her pension contributions 
because shed been made redundant and she didnt think shed receive tax relief on the 
contributions now that she was unemployed. Scottish Equitable carried out Miss Ws 
instructions and the contributions stopped at the beginning of 2014.
A few years later Miss W called Scottish Equitable as she was looking to re-start the 
contributions. She discovered during the call that she would have been eligible for tax relief 
on the contributions even though she wasnt working. Shes unhappy as she feels this 
should have been discussed with her during the call in 2013 and she should have been told 
she would still receive tax relief if she continued contributing. She says if shed known this 
she wouldnt have stopped her contributions.
Miss W complained to Scottish Equitable in July 2020. Scottish Equitable looked into the 
matter but didnt think it had done anything wrong as there hadnt been any discussion about 
tax relief during the call in 2013. It also said it wasnt authorised to give Miss W any financial 
advice, although it could give information on the options available if asked.
At some point after July 2020 Scottish Equitable deleted the recording of the call from its 
records. It said this was because it only kept recordings for seven years due to General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR).
Miss W remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt it was 
unlikely that Miss Ws entitlement to tax relief was discussed in 2013, and he didnt think it 
was Scottish Equitables responsibility to provide her with any advice on the matter. Miss W 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She maintained that 
the tax relief issue was mentioned in 2013 as this was one of the reasons she gave for 
wanting to stop the contributions. She maintained that Scottish Equitable should have 
corrected her misunderstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Theres an issue about whether we have the power to consider Miss Ws complaint that I 
need to firstly cover off.
If a business doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint thats referred to us more than 
six months after the date on which the business sent its final response. Scottish Equitable 
hasnt consented to us looking into the matter.
We only need Scottish Equitables consent if Miss W referred her complaint to us more than 
six months after its final response. The regulator sets specific requirements for what a letter 
needs to include for it to be classed as a final response. Of relevance here, Scottish 
Equitable needed to specifically say whether it would consent to us looking into the 
complaint if Miss W referred it to us late.
Scottish Equitable wrote to Miss W at various times responding to her complaint, but none of 
the emails said what they needed to in order to be classed as a final response. A general 
comment that we may consider a complaint brought to us outside of the six months limit 
and us asking for Scottish Equitables permission to do so isnt sufficient.
With that in mind, I conclude that Scottish Equitable never sent its final response to Miss W. 
So the six month time limit for Miss W to complain to us never started. Accordingly, the 
complaint falls within our jurisdiction (irrespective of whether we have Scottish Equitables 
consent).
Having reached this conclusion, I turn my consideration to whether the complaint has any 
merit.
2013 phone call
As a recording of the call is no longer available its impossible for me to know precisely what 
was said or discussed. However, I decide complaints based on what I think most likely 
happened given the evidence that is available. There are two pieces of evidence in respect 
of the content of the 2013 telephone call  Miss Ws recollections and a file note made by 
Scottish Equitables complaints handler after they listened to the call when Miss W first made 
her complaint.
Miss W has told us that she gave two reasons for wanting to stop the contributions  her 
redundancy and the lack of available tax relief. The complaints handlers note on the other 
hand said:
I've listened to the call and no mention of tax relief was ever discussed on the call. The 
customer only advised she wanted to stop her contributions as she had been made 
redundant and no questions were asked about tax relief. CSR [ie customer services 
representative] did not give incorrect guidance, the[y] passed the request to stop 
contributions to the back office to be actioned.
I have no way of verifying the accuracy of the file note. However, I think its most likely that it 
is an accurate note of what was discussed. I say that because when the note was made the 
complaint handler would have been working on the understanding that the call recording 
could be listened to by someone else and/or potentially sent to someone else (eg Miss W, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service). So I think it was in their best interests to have made an 
accurate note  otherwise an inaccurate note could have been discovered.
As it was made after having listened to the actual call, I think the complaints handlers file 
note carries the most weight in respect of the likely content of the call. Given that, I conclude 
its most likely that there was no discussion (as in a two-way conversation) about tax relief 
during the call. This ties in with Miss Ws initial complaint that it should have been discussed. 
I also conclude its most likely that Miss W only mentioned her redundancy when explaining why she wanted to stop the contributions. So I dont think that Scottish Equitable provided 
Miss W with any incorrect advice or information. And I dont think Scottish Equitable needed 
to correct any misunderstanding Miss W might have had.
In any event, it's important to note that Scottish Equitable wasnt Miss Ws financial advisor. 
So it wasnt able to give her advice on what her position was and/or what was best for her 
circumstances. Its role was essentially to carry out her instructions. So even if Miss W had 
said that one of the reasons for stopping the contributions was because of the tax relief, Im 
not necessarily persuaded that it should have corrected any misunderstanding she had. This 
is because it could be construed as trying to talk Miss W into continuing the contributions or 
explaining the tax benefits, which  in my opinion  strays into giving advice.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Scottish Equitable didnt treat Miss W 
unfairly in not correcting any misunderstanding she had over the right to receive tax relief.
Deletion of the phone call
Its not a requirement for businesses to keep records indefinitely. Ive seen a copy of Scottish 
Equitables data retention policy dated June 2018. Of relevance here, it says telephone 
recordings will be retained for 16 years from the date of the call. However, Scottish Equitable 
has advised that this policy wasnt actually brought into effect until 2022. It nevertheless said 
that the previous seven year retention policy was in line with relevant regulatory standards 
and it opted to extend it to 16 years as a safeguard against potential litigation.
Its unclear to me why a policy from June 2018 took four years to come into force. However, 
whatever the reason, the call appears to have been deleted in line with the seven year 
policy that was actually in place.
But even if Scottish Equitable didnt delete the recording in line with its policy, I dont have 
the power to fine or punish businesses for bad practice. Rather I look at the complaint as a 
whole and the effect that bad practice had on the consumer. And I dont think it had an 
effect on the outcome of Miss Ws complaint because, as Ive mentioned above, the call was 
listened to and an accurate note was made of its content.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Scottish Equitable didnt treat Miss W 
unfairly by deleting the recording of the 2013 telephone conversation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman