DRN-3339323
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) hasnt paid a cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R hold a travel insurance policy as a benefit of a bank account. The travel 
insurance is provided by AXA. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs R were unable to travel abroad as planned due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and they made a claim with AXA for non-refundable 
costs theyd paid to a third party. AXA said it wouldnt pay Mr and Mrs Rs claim, because 
timeshare costs arent covered under their policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs R complained to 
AXA before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think AXA had 
acted unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Rs claim. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so their complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint. 
AXA assessed Mr and Mrs Rs claim under the section of the policy entitled Section Q  
Travel disruption cover. Section Q provides cancellation cover on the occurrence of certain 
events, including the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office advising against all 
but essential travel abroad and/or the policyholder being unable to use their booked 
accommodation as a result of an infectious disease. Im satisfied that Section Q is the 
relevant section of the policy under which Mr and Mrs Rs claim should be considered. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality. An insurer is entitled to decide what 
level of risk it wishes to accept on a policyholders behalf, and AXAs obligations to Mr and 
Mrs R are limited by the exclusions which are set out in the terms and conditions of their 
policy. 
In common with many other travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and Mrs Rs policy 
doesnt cover timeshare costs. This is because, generally, timeshare costs are something 
which a timeshare owner is always obligated to pay, regardless of whether the timeshare is 
actually used. Page 88 of Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms and conditions say the following are 
not covered under Section Q:
Accommodation costs paid for using any Timeshare  scheme .
Im satisfied, based on the information Ive seen, that the costs which Mr and Mrs R are 
claiming for relate to a timeshare. So, I dont think their claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy. 
I understand Mr R says AXA initially told him that timeshare costs were neither specifically 
included nor specifically excluded under his policy. But, if AXA said this, I dont think it was 
correct. This is because the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy which Ive seen 
(dated 07/18  so, before the date this claim was made), set out the exclusion which Ive 
quoted above. Even if I accept that this exclusion wasnt present in previous versions of Mr 
and Mrs Rs policy, Im satisfied that it was present in the terms and conditions when this 
claim was made. AXA is entitled to make changes to the benefits, terms, cover and/or 
exclusions of this policy on the provision of two months notice to the policyholder. 
Mr R has sent us a copy of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which was 
provided in connection with his travel insurance policy. The IPID doesnt mention the 
timeshare exclusion which Ive quoted above, but I wouldnt necessarily expect it to, as I 
dont think the exclusion can reasonably be considered as particularly significant or unusual. 
An IPID is intended to provide a customer with an at a glance summary of their insurance 
cover. Its not possible for an IPID to reference every policy exclusion, and Mr and Mrs Rs 
IPID specifically states:
The information provided in this document is a summary of the key features and 
exclusions of the policy and does not form part of the contract between us. Complete 
pre-contract and contractual information about the product is provided in your policy 
documents and policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy with AXA and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask AXA to accept their claim. So, I wont be directing AXA to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman