DRN-3274488
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Prudential have sent incorrect statements for her Section 
32 policy since its inception in 1993. This policy was set up to receive a transfer 
payment from her occupational scheme covering Ms Ss service from April 1988 to 
June 1991. Ms S has received statements each year giving updated values. 
However, upon trying to access benefits in 2020 Prudential stated that this policy 
was included in the Pension Review with the benefits re-instated with the previous 
occupational scheme in 1998. Prudential accepted that statements should not have 
been sent, Ms Ss expectations had been managed inappropriately and made an 
offer of £1,000 compensation.
What happened
In June 1991, on the advice of Prudential, Ms S opted out of her occupational 
scheme. Contributions were diverted to a Personal Pension. This 1991 advice 
stopped Ms S from building further pension benefit within the occupational scheme 
but left previously built up benefits in place.
In December 1993 further occupational scheme benefits for the period April 1988 
until June 1991 were transferred to a Section 32 policy with a lump sum of £2,444 
being invested. Benefits built up within the occupational pension scheme prior to 
April 1988 were left intact. 
The advice to purchase the personal pension and the Section 32 policy were 
reviewed as part of the nationwide Pension Review. The review into the two policies 
here was completed in 1998 and confirmed that the advice was unsuitable. As such, 
a payment of around £15,400 was made by Prudential to the previous occupational 
scheme to restore the benefits lost as part of the 1991 opt out and the 1993 lump 
sum transfer.
As part of this process the personal pension was cancelled and the monies within it 
used to partially cover the cost of re-instating the occupational scheme benefits. 
Whilst the monies within the Section 32 policy should also have been cancelled at 
this time, they were not and as such statements for this policy continued to be sent 
to Ms S each year.
In 2020, having reached age 60 and suffering ill health, Ms S contacted Prudential to 
access the Section 32 policy with the 2020 policy statement showing a value of 
around £12,800. Whilst initially Prudential processed this request, it subsequently 
came to light that the policy should not be in force nor have any value. In response to 
the complaint Prudential accepted an error had been made in sending statements 
from 1998 to 2020 and offered Ms S £1,000 compensation to cover the trouble and 
upset caused by their mismanagement of her expectations.  
Ms S did not consider this offer acceptable and the case was referred to this service.
One of our investigators investigated what had happened and having considered all 
of the information available our investigator thought that the offer made by Prudential 
was fair. Ms S did not agree, stating that whilst she did not expect the full policy value to be 
paid, an amount of £2,000 felt fairer and asked if Prudential would be willing to 
increase their offer. 
Whilst our investigator did not change their findings, Ms Ss request was put to 
Prudential who subsequently confirmed they stood by the original £1,000 offer.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, all of the documentation on file clearly shows that Ms Ss occupational 
pension scheme benefits were fully re-instated. The pension scheme trustees have 
confirmed that the effects of opting out of the scheme in 1991 and the transfer of 
historic benefits in 1993 were unwound and as such the occupational pension 
benefits available to Ms S are correct, they are as they should be had the personal 
pension and Section 32 policy never happened. There has been no actual loss to the 
pension benefits available to Ms S.
Secondly, it has been accepted that Prudential were wrong to send annual 
statements for the Section 32 policy from 1998 onwards. Prudential admit this policy 
should have been cancelled in 1998, statements should have ceased and as a result 
Ms Ss expectations regarding her retirement have been mismanaged. Given this, 
the only issue I must consider is whether Prudentials offer in respect of the already 
accepted issues is appropriate.
Having considered the offer made by Prudential I have reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. Let me explain why.
The issue was created when Prudential made the initial error of not cancelling the 
Section 32 policy in 1998 when the original NHS pension benefits were restored. 
This then resulted in ongoing statements being sent each year until the issue was 
finally identified in 2020.
Any award I make is not intended to punish a business, with its sole purpose being 
to adequately compensate a consumer for the trouble caused by a business error. In 
this case there has been no actual financial loss, the value of Ms Ss occupational 
pension already contains all the funds from the Section 32 policy. 
Ms S wasnt entitled to the funds so there hasnt been any direct financial loss. I also 
dont think Prudentials error caused Ms S to make financial commitments that she 
otherwise wouldnt have made. So really the issue is that Ms S was expecting to 
receive money that, belatedly, she was informed wasnt hers to receive. 
Clearly, this would have been highly disappointing. But my role here isnt to punish 
the business it is to ensure a consumer is put into the position they would have most 
likely been in had a business not made an error and recommend appropriate 
compensation should that error cause any distress or inconvenience. In that regard I agree with the investigator that the offer made by Prudential is fair. 
For me to ask Prudential to increase their offer in line with Ms Ss requests would 
leave her materially better off than she would have been without the businesss error 
which is not the purpose of the redress instructions I give.
So, whilst I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing to Ms S, I do not 
uphold this complaint and make no further award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. For the reasons detailed 
above I consider the offer made by Prudential in respect of their errors to be fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman