DRN-3873789
The complaint
M complain about the sale of a commercial property insurance policy brokered by M & D H 
Insurance Services Ltd.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. I can assure both M and M&DH that Ive read and carefully considered all of 
the information we have relating to this case.
M is a business and is represented in making this complaint by its Director.
In 2020, M took out a commercial combined insurance policy brokered by MD&H and 
underwritten by a third party insurer. This covered their property, amongst other things. The 
policy included cover for damage to or loss of stock left in the open.
In short, M made a claim for damage to stock left in the open after a storm. The insurer 
declined the claim. They pointed out that the cover for stock left in the open was restricted to 
damage or loss caused by fire, lightning, earthquake and the impact of aircraft only. This 
type of cover is often referred to by the acronym FLEA.
M said that if that were the case, they had been mis-sold the policy by M&DH. They said 
theyd never been made aware of any exclusions for damage or loss caused by storm.
M complained to our service about the alleged mis-sale of the policy and out investigator 
looked into it.
She didnt think M&DH had done anything wrong because the documents relating to the 
policy made it clear that M were buying FLEA cover.
M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know M will be disappointed, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold by M&DH. Ill explain why.
When M asked M&DH to find a suitable policy for them, they filled out a questionnaire which 
they then returned to M&DH.
This asked M&DH to arrange cover for M of up to £500,000 for stock left in the open. The 
section of the form referring to stock left in the open is headed:
Stock left in the open (cover restricted to fire, lightning, earthquake and impact of 
aircraft)
So, when M asked M&DH to find a suitable policy for them, they in effect asked M&DH to 
find FLEA cover  at least in so far as it related to stock left in the open.
That questionnaire formed the basis of a discussion M then had with M&DH over the phone 
to discuss the cover which might be available on the market. M&DHs agent on that call 
clearly refers back to the questionnaire - and the information M include in it - as the starting 
point for M&DHs search for a suitable policy.
Before the purchase was confirmed, M&DH sent policy documents to M for checking. These 
included a risk register, which said the following. 
Stock left in the open (cover is restricted to fire, lightning, earthquake and impact of 
aircraft).
And when M confirmed they wanted to go ahead, full policy documents were sent, including 
a schedule and statement of fact which said:
Restricted Perils Endorsement  Cover is restricted to the perils of fire, lightning, 
earthquake and aircraft or other aerial devices or articles dropped therefrom only
M&DHs emails said very clearly that M should read the documents carefully to ensure that 
there were no errors or omissions. And they asked M to contact them if anything needed to 
be amended.
The same or very similar documents were sent to M before renewal of the policy the 
following year.
Having received those communications and documents  both when they first bought the 
policy and at renewal - M confirmed to M&DH that they were happy to proceed to purchase / 
renew the cover on offer.
Bearing that evidence and information in mind, I cant reasonably conclude that M&DH mis-
led M about the nature of the policy they bought, or that they werent clear about the fact that 
the cover for stock in the open was FLEA cover only. 
And I cant reasonably conclude that M&DH ignored or disregarded Ms needs when 
arranging the cover. M set out their needs in the questionnaire they themselves completed. 
And according to the information M themselves provided, M&DH were entitled to believe that 
M wanted FLEA cover for stock left in the open.
M say they were never made aware of any exclusions for storm damage. But with respect 
that misses the point. There is no exclusion for storm damage in this policy. Its simply that 
the policy was never intended in the first place to cover storm damage for stock left in the 
open.
Finally, Im aware that when M first raised this complaint with us, they questioned whether 
M&DH were entitled to handle the money M provided to pay the premiums for the policy.
I cant find any reason to suspect that M&DH werent entitled to receive the premium 
payments from M. M agreed to pay the money to M&DH, on several occasions. Its usual for 
brokers to accept payments from customers in this way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman