DRN-4174728
The complaint
Ms R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £256,000 she 
lost to a scam where she believed she was co-operating with the police.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
It isnt in dispute that Ms R has fallen victim to a cruel scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made to the scammer from her HSBC account. The 
international payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Ms R made were unusual given that they did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as those made on 10 May 2021 and 7 June 2021. Accordingly, its 
just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its 
interventions.
Ive considered Ms Rs testimony about what happened when she visited the branch, 
and have also listened to the two calls HSBC had with her when it discussed the reasons 
behind the payments she was making. I accept that HSBC could have arguably gone 
further in its questioning of Ms R on the initial call it had with her. But even accepting this 
as the case, Im not persuaded any such further questioning would have ultimately 
uncovered the scam and prevented the loss in any event. Ill explain why.
Ms R appears to have been fully convinced of the scam and was following all of the 
scammers instructions. She believed that she was in contact with the police, and that 
someone had been using her identity for the purposes of money laundering. She had 
been told to transfer her money to an account so it could be checked and verified as 
belonging to her. Ms R was told that she couldnt tell anyone about the investigation and 
that she had to comply with all instructions in order to avoid being deported and arrested. 
When HSBC spoke to Ms R about the payments in branch, she said that it asked her 
whether the police had told her to make the payment, but she didnt reveal that they had. 
HSBC also spoke to Ms R on the phone in relation to the payments she made on 10 May 
and 7 June 2021, where she gave false answers when asked about the purpose of the 
payments, such as paying a friend in Hong Kong for a property investment. HSBC asked 
questions, such as whether she had met the person she was investing with, to which she 
said they were good friends and that she had received photos about the investment. It 
also asked whether anyone had forced or threatened her into making the payment, or 
told her not to reveal the true purpose behind it, to which she said they hadnt.  
So, overall, even if HSBC could have carried out further checks and asked more probing 
questions, Im not persuaded this would have likely revealed she was falling for a scam 
or ultimately prevented her loss. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look more closely 
into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Ms Rs loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to provide false information 
in order to make the payments. As such, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable 
to hold HSBC liable for failing to prevent the scam.
Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. I can see that it first contacted the international beneficiary bank 
within a few days of the fraud being reported, so I acknowledge that this could have 
potentially been done sooner. But the nature of these scams typically involves the money 
being removed from the beneficiary account very quickly after it has been transferred. 
Most of the payments Ms R made were transferred long before she reported the scam 
on 14 June 2021, with the most recent payment still being made around a week prior to 
the scam being reported. So, it seems highly unlikely HSBC could have recovered any of 
the funds even if it had acted sooner to contact the receiving bank. 
HSBC are also under no obligation to refund the money to Ms R under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to transfers made 
between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, the payments were 
made to an international account, so the CRM Code would not apply to these 
transactions. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that HSBC can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman