DRN-2473948
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Provident) gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took five home credit loans from Provident between March and October 2010. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo. of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 09/03/2010 03/08/2010 23 £300.00
2 22/06/2010 17/08/2010 23 £300.00
3 13/07/2010 12/10/2012 23 £500.00
4 17/08/2010 12/10/2010 23 £500.00
5 12/10/2010 outstanding 50 £1,500.00
It appears that Mr P ran into difficulties repaying his last loan.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ps complaint. She didnt think Provident were wrong to 
approve Mr Ps loans. Whilst Provident were unable to provide details of Mr Ps income and 
expenditure, Mr P was able to provide details of his income at the time of the applications. 
The adjudicator considered this information and concluded that the loan repayments 
appeared affordable. 
Whilst the adjudicator thought Providents checks shouldve gone further for Mr Ps last two 
loans, she couldnt say that these two loans shouldnt have been approved, as Mr P wasnt 
able to provide information showing his circumstances at the time of the applications.
It appears that Provident agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed and provided 
the following points for consideration;
Mr P was vulnerable at the time of accepting the loans.
Provident didnt check his credit score/ history, bank statements or payslips. 
He was left struggling to pay his priority bills and other loans on time.
He was always behind with his monthly payments as he didnt have enough money 
to pay the right amount.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Provident should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint and I dont think Provident were wrong 
to approve Mr Ps loans. Id like to explain why.
When Mr P applied for his loans, Provident wouldve likely asked him to declare his monthly 
income and expenditure for each loan application. Provident has been unable to provide the 
details it gathered about Mr Ps income and expenditure for each loan. But as these loans 
were taken out around 11 years ago, I dont find this unreasonable considering the time 
which has passed since the applications. 
In any event, Mr P has been able to provide us with some information about what his income 
was at the time of the applications. Whilst I dont know exactly what figures Mr P wouldve 
declared to Provident at the time of the applications, the payslips he has provided is an 
accurate reflection of what he was earning at the time. 
So, I have considered Mr Ps payslips when looking at the repayments he was due to make, 
to understand if these were affordable. Ive also taken into account that Mr P sometimes had 
multiple loans running at the same time.
When Mr P took out his first three loans, I think Provident wouldve reasonably concluded 
that the loan repayments were affordable. Mr Ps net monthly income ranged from £1,612 to 
£1,700 at the time of loans 1-3. As Mr Ps repayments were to be repaid on a weekly basis, 
Ive looked at what income he would have received on a weekly basis. But even if I assume 
that Mr P would have declared the income showing on his payslips, the repayments still 
appeared affordable and sustainable.As this was early on into the lending relationship between Provident and Mr P, and the 
lending appeared affordable, I dont think Provident needed to do additional checks at this 
point.  So, I dont think Provident was wrong to approve the first three loans.
Mr P applied for his fourth loan on the same day he repaid his second loan and he still had 
to make repayments for loan 3. Having considered Mr Ps payslip at the time of this loan 
application, I think its likely Provident wouldve gathered information about this showing the 
loan repayments were affordable. 
However, as this was now Mr Ps fourth loan in just over five months, I think Provident 
should have been verified his circumstances to understand more about these and why Mr P 
needed to continue taking out further loans. I dont think it was enough for Provident to rely 
on what Mr P was telling it anymore. Provident could have verified Mr Ps circumstances by 
asking for his bank statements, bills or copies of payslips. Mr P says Provident didnt ask him 
for this information, and Provident has been unable to show that it asked for this information. 
So, I dont think its checks went far enough.  
When Mr P applied for his fifth loan, I think Provident should have continued to verify his 
circumstances. I say this because Mr Ps fifth loan was for the largest amount to date, and 
he was to repay the loan over the longest term. So, Provident needed to understand whether 
he could sustain the repayments over this period. But Provident hasnt demonstrated that it 
carried out a proportionate check.
In these circumstances, I would look at what proportionate checks wouldve likely shown 
Provident at the time. But Mr P hasnt been able to provide us with his bank statements, a 
copy of his credit file or any other evidence about his financial circumstances at the time. 
This means, I cant be sure what Provident may have seen, had it carried out proportionate 
checks.
I can see that Mr P has clearly gone to a lot of effort to try and show us what his 
circumstances were like at the time he took out these loans. But in the absence of any 
information showing what his circumstances were like, I cant conclude that further checks 
would have made a difference to Providents decision to lend. 
I understand that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr P, but I hope my explanation will 
help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman