DRN-2576476
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr L are unhappy that Paratus AMC Limited have been writing to Mrs C using her 
former name and at an address they say she doesnt live at in relation to their buy-to-let 
mortgage.
Whilst this complaint is about how Mrs C has been treated, weve only had contact with Mr L 
throughout this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Surname
Whilst I have regard for Mr Ls testimony theres simply no evidence to show that the 
marriage certificate was either passed to Paratus when it took the account over from the 
previous lender or that it received it at any point before Mr L emailed it to them in February 
2020. 
The names on the account when it was transferred to Paratus was [Mrs Cs previous 
surname] and Mr L, not Mrs C and Mr L. Once Paratus received the marriage certificate in 
February 2020 it updated her name to Mrs C, despite that information not coming directly 
from Mrs C as it should have done.
For that reason, I cant find Paratus acted inappropriately in referring to Mrs C by her 
previous surname up until February 2020.
Address
Despite requests to both Mr L and Mrs C weve not received confirmation from them of their 
address history. Mrs C didnt respond at all, despite us writing to the address weve been 
told she lives at, and Mr L didnt provide the information, telling our investigator on the phone 
that it was irrelevant.
Unfortunately, it isnt irrelevant, and by not providing the information we asked for weve 
been left with no choice but to reject this part of the complaint.
Paratus had previously been given - by Mr L - the address 65V for Mrs C, but despite it 
writing to that address in 2018 asking Mrs C to write back to confirm the address was 
correct, no response was received.
A voluntary surrender form Mrs C and Mr L signed in May 2019 asked for Forwarding 
Address(es) and the only address given was 163G. Paratus followed the instructions on that 
form  in that both Mrs C and Mr Ls forwarding address was 163G - and amended Mrs Cs 
address to that. In his recent email to us Mr L has said:
[Mrs C] never changed her address to my [163G] address, therefore; there could never 
have been a reason to write out to her at this address. [Mrs C] only stayed at my address 
for 2 weeks before moving into her address in [town where 65V is] and the address was 
changed with Paratus and they were provided with the marriage certificate again.
As Mr L and Mrs C havent provided us with the information we asked for we dont know 
when this refers to. In any event, Mrs C signed a form in May 2019 which gave 163G as the 
address she should be contacted at, so I cant hold Paratus liable for following that 
instruction.
But when Paratus wrote to Mrs C at that address the post was returned undelivered. It isnt 
clear if Mr L was still living at that address when the letter was returned as he and Mrs C 
havent provided that information to us, despite our requests. But I do note on another 
complaint weve dealt with for Mr L that he emailed us, in November 2019, to say he was 
living abroad and Mrs C was living at 65V, albeit he said she moving out of that address 
shortly as she was going into a home.
In November 2019 Paratus ran a formal trace on Mrs C as it had no way of contacting her; 
letters sent to 65V, 163G and the buy-to-let property address had all either been ignored or 
returned to sender. That trace linked Mrs C to 65V earlier in 2019, and then to 54W from 
October 2019. The result that came up for 54W was in Mrs Cs current name and related to 
her taking out credit at that address.
A letter this service had sent to Mrs C at 65V in January 2020 was returned to us as gone 
away, and all the other letters weve sent to her at that address have gone unanswered.
Mr L has said that the letters Paratus sent to Mrs C using her previous surname (as that was 
what Paratus knew Mrs C as at that point) at 54W were opened by a relative of his who 
shares the same first initial as Mrs C as well as having the same surname that Mrs C used to 
have. Hes said Paratus has written:
 to a different family members address under her former name, as they both share the 
same initial, but the family member has [Mrs Cs] original name surname from my father's 
side 
These letters that [Paratus] have been sending out to the incorrect address and incorrect 
recipient have been opened up by this other family member, who I have had limited 
contact with for personal reasons The contents of these letters contain personal and 
sensitive information pertaining to mine and [Mrs Cs] financial affairs As such, this has 
also caused distress to the family member concerned, as we have been informed that 
these letters are requesting large sums of money be paid to [Paratus] by this person This 
has caused a great deal of distress and mistrust within our family, for which I have been 
trying to resolve Both [Mrs C] and the other [family member] are considered vulnerable
I have asked [Paratus] to cease sending letters out to the wrong address, but they 
refused to do so and are continuing to send letters out to the wrong address still - which is causing further hardship to myself and especially [Mrs C], as she is concerned for the 
safety of [the family member] I have had to spend time and money travelling to [65W] to 
talk personally with [the family member], which IS a 4 hour car journey, to try and 
appease the situation Both [Mrs C] and myself have been embarrassed by the situation, 
as our finances have now been disclosed to other outside family members who got 
involved to help the situation, but are angry at us, because they don not understand why 
this has happened
Ive considered this point very carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. Despite requests for the 
full name of the family member in question Mr L and Mrs C havent provided that information. 
In addition, it seems unusual that this family member of Mr Ls shared the same initial and 
previous surname as Mrs C and also lived in a property that Mrs C had been traced to due to 
her taking out credit at that address (in the name of Mrs C, not her previous name). 
If the search had come up in Mrs Cs previous name I can see this could have happened; 
that is, it was a confusion between two women with the same initial and surname (albeit it 
seems unlikely they also shared the same date of birth so they should be distinguishable by 
Experian), but it didnt. The search located Mrs C at that address using the name Mrs C, not 
her previous surname.
All things considered Im satisfied Paratus didnt act inappropriately in the addresses it used 
for Mrs C, including writing to her at 54W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs C and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman