DRN-4497536
The complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money he lost after he fell victim 
to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
Mr G is represented by a third party in bringing his complaint. For ease of reading, I will only 
refer to Mr G in my decision
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 November 2023. The background 
and circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set 
out in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
in detail here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
Between May 2018 and September 2018 Mr G made four international payments from his 
Metro account, to fund what he thought was a legitimate investment. Overall, these 
payments totalled £389,616.63. A breakdown of the payments is listed below;
24 May 2018 £11,432.34
7 June 2018 £169,184.29
6 September 2018 £160,000
13 September 2018 £49,000
Mr G subsequently realised hed been scammed when he attended the address he had been 
given for the company, after the payments had been made. But found it didnt exist and that 
fraudsters had cloned a legitimate company.
Mr G raised the matter with Metro, who looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. In 
summary, it said that for each payment Mr G made, it had asked additional questions 
regarding the purpose. It added that even if it had asked more questions, it was reasonable 
to presume Mr G would have continued to invest, given he'd said hed carried out his own 
extensive research. Metro said when Mr G made the second payment he had provided 
paperwork that looked genuine and didnt give it cause for concern.
It added that when Mr G had attended one of its branches, ahead of making his third and 
fourth payments, it wasnt initially prepared to send the funds for the amount Mr G 
requested. But that hed returned the following day and after carrying out checks of the 
companys website (which indicated the person Mr G was dealing with actually worked for 
the company) the payments were allowed to progress.
Metro went on to say that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) did register a warning about 
the company Mr G was dealing with, but this wasnt until September 2018, after Mr G had 
made his payments.
Metro said it reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were 
made) to try and recover the money Mr G lost, but it wasnt able to recover anything. It said 
that, following an initial letter from Mr G, it didnt refer matters to its fraud team. In recognition 
of this it issued £50 to Mr G as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr G brought the matter to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
they were satisfied Mr G would have still wanted to go ahead with the payments despite 
interventions from Metro.
Mr G didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary he said the value of the first 
payment ought to have garnered further questions and had it done so it would have had 
enough concern to have enabled the Banking Protocol.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed over to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to our Investigator and to 
partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why, along with what Im minded to conclude Metro 
should do to resolve the complaint.
Im aware Mr G has referred to other decisions issued by our service. But I would point out 
that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined 
by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.
I accept these were authorised transactions even though Mr G was tricked. So, although Mr 
G didnt intend the payments to ultimately go to fraudsters, he is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that  
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr G, when he made transfers to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Payments one and two I think it is finely balanced as to whether Metro ought to have intervened more than it did 
when Mr G made his first two payments. The account hadnt been open for very long at the 
time Mr G made the first payment, but within that time Mr G had already made a payment of 
a similar value to the first payment he made to the fraudsters.
I am mindful though that the second payment that followed, around two weeks later, for over 
£160,000 represented a significant increase and ought to have made Metro alert to the 
possibility that Mr G may be at risk of financial harm.
It seems to be the case here that Metro did, at least to some extent, intervene. It said that it 
did ask for additional information for each of the payments Mr G made  and for this second 
payment it has said Mr G provided it with paperwork that looked genuine and which didnt 
give it cause for concern.
But even if I were to find that Metro ought to have intervened more than it did, this in itself 
isnt enough for me to say that Metro should refund the money Mr G has lost. I also need to 
be persuaded that its intervention would have made a difference and prevented the 
payments from being made. I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account what I know.
So Ive gone on to think about what difference an intervention would have made here. 
Having thought carefully about this, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that it would 
more likely than not have made a difference and prevented Mr G from making these first two 
payments. Ill explain why.
If Metro had questioned Mr G further about these payments, Ive no reason to doubt he 
would have spoken freely about the purpose of them, after all he wasnt being coached by 
the fraudster to provide a cover story which can sometimes, but not always, be the case with 
these type of scams.
So Im persuaded Mr G would have, and it appears he did, told Metro that the purpose of the 
payment was to invest. I wouldnt expect Metro to have just accepted the reason for the 
payment at face value before releasing the funds. At the time of the scam it ought to have 
been aware of the prevalence of investment scams, even upon establishing that Mr G was
intending to invest with what appeared to be a genuine investment firm. So Ive thought 
about the sorts of follow up questions Metro could have asked, to reassure themselves Mr G 
likely wasnt at risk of financial harm.
It is worth explaining that fraud and fraudsters methods continually evolve over time, as in 
turn does a banks awareness of different types of scams and the tactics fraudsters use to 
defraud their victims. So in considering this complaint, I have to think about what I can 
reasonably have expected a bank to have been aware of and on the lookout for at the time 
these payments were made. At the point these payments were made, the most typical 
hallmarks of cloned investment scams involved victims being cold called, being offered 
returns that were too good to be true and being pressured.
With this in mind Id have expected Metro to ask some questions about the payment, in the 
context of the particular features of an investment scam. For example, Metro could have 
asked questions such as, but not limited to, what the payment was for, whether Mr G had 
been looking to invest, what research he had done, whether he had been cold called and 
what rate of return he was being offered. Had Metro asked these, or similar questions, Im 
persuaded Mr G would have been able to confidently answer them without concerning Metro 
he might be the victim of a scam. I think it more likely than not he would have been able to 
explain that he was looking to invest, had researched the company and had been in contact 
with them over a number of months. Mr G had also been presented with genuine looking documentation, which he presented to Metro, which I think would have only gone to further 
his belief that this was a genuine investment opportunity. Im also mindful that at this point in 
the scam, the element of pressure isnt as apparent as it later becomes.
Alongside this, I think its reasonable to say the scam that Mr G fell victim to was highly 
sophisticated for its time. So even if Metro had spoken in more detail to Mr G about 
investment scams, and then asked the sorts of questions Ive suggested above, I dont think 
it would have been concerned that Mr G was at risk. I think the genuine looking documents 
and the research Mr G carried out on the companys website suggests he was looking at 
what was most likely the actual website for the legitimate company (not a copied website). 
This would have just added to the plausibility of this being a genuine investment opportunity.
Overall, Im persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Mr G is likely to 
have given would have been sufficient to reassure Metro that Mr G wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what was 
happening, I think Mr G would have been confident he was making a payment that was 
towards a genuine investment, through what seemed like a legitimate source.
Considering this, alongside the answers I think Mr G would have given to any questions, the 
level of the research that Mr G has told us he carried out, the persuasiveness of the 
literature and communication he had with the fraudsters and considering the sophistication 
of how the fraud was engineered, I dont think Metro ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been concerned, at this point, that Mr G may have been at risk of financial harm. So Im not 
minded to say it should be responsible for refunding Mr Gs loss from the first two payments.
Payments three and four
Im persuaded the third payment Mr G made to the fraudsters ought to have triggered further 
checks. And I think it did, with Metro explaining that it initially told Mr G that it wasnt 
prepared to send the funds for the amount he requested when he attended one of its 
branches. But Metro did allow the payment to be progressed the following day. This was 
after it said it had carried out its own research into the company Mr G was looking to invest 
through and found the person, who Mr G thought he was dealing with, appeared to 
genuinely work for that company.
But given the significant sums of money involved and that this third payment represented   
Mr G making payments that totalled hundreds of thousands of pounds, within a relatively 
short period of time, I think it reasonable to have still expected Metro to probe Mr G further 
about the payment he was making.
As with the first two payments hed made, I have no reason to believe that Mr G wouldnt 
have been open with Metro. From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that there are some 
characteristics present about these third and fourth payments that ought to have given Metro 
cause for concern that Mr G was at serious risk of financial harm.
Im persuaded that had Metro probed further it would have become aware that the purpose 
of this payment for £160,000 was to purchase shares and to release funds locked in an 
escrow. Indeed Metro has captured this detail on its payment notes from the time the 
payment was made.
I think this in itself ought to have caused Metro concern of an apparent risk to Mr G. I say 
this because at the time this payment was made, and its still the case now, a classic 
hallmark of an investment scam is difficulty in withdrawing funds and fraudsters coaxing their 
victims to make further payments in the belief that these are in some way going to help them 
unlock their funds.I also think its more likely than not, under further questioning, Mr G would have explained to 
Metro that hed been told he was at risk of losing all of the money hed made  which again 
is not likely to be the case if he had been dealing with a legitimate investment company. Im 
also mindful, in the individual circumstances of this case, that Mr G had freely shared with 
Metro the documentation he had received from the fraudsters. I think its apparent from this 
documentation, in particular the evidence of the email exchanges Mr G had with the 
fraudsters, that the tone of the fraudster has changed and they become somewhat 
aggressive and pushy. Pressure is being applied to Mr G to make these payments and that if 
he didnt invest more - hed lose everything. This again is a typical hallmark of an investment 
scam such as this.
I can also see from Metros evidence that within some of the emails that Mr G shared with it, 
that it retained for its records, it is apparent Mr G is having to borrow money in order to fund 
these additional payments, which again I think ought to have added a further layer of 
concern.
Given how open Mr G was seemingly being about the investment, I also think it more likely 
than not he would have explained to Metro that the payments he was intending to make 
would enable him to release what he had been told was £900,000. Given the amount Mr G 
had already paid, and was intending to pay, this amount would represent a profit of over half 
a million pounds within just three or four months. That level of return, over such a short 
period, ought reasonably to have concerned Metro that this was too good to be true to the 
point of being implausible.
Im also mindful that Mr G was in his late seventies at the time of the scam and I think this is 
a relevant factor here. Mr Gs age profile is one that is disproportionately targeted by 
scammers. This has been recognised by the industry for a long time and ought to have been 
something Metro was aware of.
In and of themselves its arguable that any one of the above factors, in isolation, may not 
have been enough to have reasonably alerted Metro. But when taken collectively, Im 
persuaded there was enough going on that Metro should have been alert to the possibility 
that Mr G was falling victim to an investment scam.
Metro ought reasonably to have known how scams like this work. I dont underestimate, in 
the individual circumstances of this case, how plausible a sophisticated scam like this can 
be. But scams like this wouldnt have been new to Metro and given I think the risk of the 
payments would have been apparent to it, I think it should have done more than it did. I think 
it reasonably could have spoken to Mr G about investment scams, explaining how they look 
and feel. And it reasonably ought to have known there would be a very clear way in which   
Mr G could be safeguarded against the risk of falling victim to a clone investment scam  
which would be for him to make touch with the company through its official contact details on 
the FCA register, to check he was indeed in touch with the real company, and not clone 
investment scammers.
Bearing in mind how concerned I think Metro ought to have been about the circumstances 
surrounding this third payment I think  this would have been an entirely proportionate 
recommendation from Metro, and that it really ought to have done this. In this case, Im 
persuaded this most likely would have made a difference. Given the amount of money 
involved and how much this represented to Mr G, I think it most likely he would have listened 
to and taken Metros warnings seriously and consequently not have proceeded with this and 
the subsequent payment he made. Im satisfied, therefore, that had Metro done what I think 
it reasonably ought to have, Mr G most likely wouldnt have made (and lost) the third 
payment he made for £160,000, nor the fourth payment for £49,000.It follows that, for the reasons explained above, Im currently minded to say that Metro is 
liable for the money Mr G lost from the third and fourth payments he made.
Recovery
Ive considered whether, once Metro was notified of the scam by Mr G, it did all it could to try 
and recover the money hed lost. Metro did try to recover the money Mr G had sent to the 
fraudsters. Ultimately this was not successful. But that outcome is not surprising given the 
time that had passed between the payment and Mr G reporting the matter and considering 
typically fraudsters tend to move the funds theyve received from their victims as quickly as 
possible.
Should Mr G bear some responsibility for his loss?
Finally, Ive thought about whether Mr G should bear some responsibility in terms of his 
actions. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of the payment authorisation he 
was in the dark and simply did not appreciate that he may have been at risk. He thought he 
was investing his money through a legitimate company. I am satisfied he was simply the  
unwitting and blameless victim of a sophisticated scam. And Metro was the professional in 
financial matters.
I clarified to both parties on 6 December 2023, that my intentions regarding how I thought 
Metro should put things right were as follows;
Putting things right
For the reasons explained Im currently minded to say that appropriate compensation would 
be for Metro to refund Mr G the money he lost from the third and fourth payments he made. 
It would also be appropriate for Metro to pay interest on this amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Ive carefully thought about how that interest should be calculated. Im mindful that Mr G has 
explained that these payments were funded through a number of sources, including an 
interest-bearing loan from a friend, which hes subsequently made good through the sale of 
business and private property. Given Mr G's losses have come from various sources, it is my 
intention to take a pragmatic approach and say that an award of 8% interest is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £170,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £170,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I provisionally uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is 
£209,000. My provisional decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr G £170,000 plus 
8% simple interest, from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more than £170,000, so I recommend that 
Metro Bank PLC pays Mr G the balance plus 8% simple interest, from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Metro Bank PLC doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 5 December 2023, which I extended to 15 
December 2023, given the later clarification I gave around how I thought things should be 
put right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions as I reached in my  
provisional decision.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision to say he wished to accept my findings. Metro 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt provide any further arguments 
within the timescales given. As Mr G has accepted the findings within my provisional 
decision, and where Metro hasnt provided any new evidence or submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached therein.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained I think this complaint should be upheld in part. Appropriate 
compensation would be for Metro to refund Mr G the money he lost from the third and fourth 
payments he made. It would also be appropriate for Metro to pay interest on this amount 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ive carefully thought about how that interest should be calculated. Im mindful that Mr G has 
explained that these payments were funded through a number of sources, including an 
interest-bearing loan from a friend, which hes subsequently made good through the sale of 
business and private property. Given Mr G's losses have come from various sources, it is my 
intention to take a pragmatic approach and say that an award of 8% interest is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £170,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £170,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is £209,000. My 
decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr G £170,000 plus 8% simple interest, from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more than £170,000, so I recommend that 
Metro Bank PLC pays Mr G the balance plus 8% simple interest, from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Metro Bank PLC doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman