DRN-1498471
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Society of Lloyd's. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his commercial motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Gs van was stolen by thieves and so he claimed under his insurance policy. Lloyds 
looked into the circumstances surrounding the theft of his van, but it turned down his claim. 
This was because it wasnt happy about the circumstances surrounding the theft of his van. 
Mr G had given Lloyds and the police a very different version of events.
As Mr G wasnt happy about this he complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he sympathised with Mr Gs position, 
as he had been the victim of crime and had his van stolen, he didnt think that Lloyds had 
done anything wrong as the police clearly had a very different version of events to the one 
he had given the insurer.
Mr G didnt agree. He maintained that the police had recorded things incorrectly and that the 
police officer who attended the scene was mistaken or lying. So the matter has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Gs van was stolen he told the police he had left the keys in the vans ignition while 
he was making deliveries with the side door open. But when he reported the theft to Lloyds 
he said that he had been followed by a car and then jumped by a gang. And he was held 
back while one of the thieves stole his van and drove it away. 
I know Mr G says that the police officer isnt being truthful about events, but I cant see any 
reason why a police officer would lie about this. And Lloyds appointed investigator actually 
interviewed the police officer concerned and he was satisfied that the police officer was 
being truthful. On balance, I find it difficult to believe that the police officer would commit 
perjury rather than just report the facts as he found them.
The only thing that troubles me about this case is that it appears that Mr G did leave his keys 
in the ignition of the van. And he could have been close enough to the van to have been a 
deterrent. However, he has maintained that he was subjected to a violent robbery and the 
police report says that he was unloading deliveries when he left the vehicle insecure with 
the keys in the ignition and says he didnt see who was responsible for the theft or any 
suspects in the vicinity. Ultimately Im swayed by this and cant say that Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably in relying on the police evidence provided. 
As such, I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong in turning down Mr Gs claim given the 
clear inaccuracies identified.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman