DRN-2511491
The complaint
A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent a payment to HMRC with the wrong reference.
A also complains that after the problem was identified, Barclays failed to take reasonable
steps to resolve the situation. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 15 December 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to 
uphold As complaint and how I thought Barclays should resolve it. I said: 
What happened
On 29 November 2019 Mr A called Barclays on As behalf as a payment to HMRC he tried to
complete online didnt go through. The payment was instructed over the phone instead but
the call handler used an out of date reference when sending it. Mr A asked the call handler
to fix the problem as it had been caused by Barclays. Mr A also advised he wanted to
complain and was transferred to a complaint handler.
Barclays complaint handler told Mr A that it could recall the payment but that could take up
to 21 days. Barclays said the quickest way to resolve the situation was for Mr A to contact
HMRC directly. But Mr A said he wanted Barclays to fix the mistake it had made. The call
ended without Mr A agreeing to contact HMRC and Barclays has advised that no complaint
was raised.
Mr A called Barclays again on 5 December 2019 to check what was happening with his
payment and complaint. Mr A was told no complaint had been recorded on its systems and
that the payment hadnt been recalled. After 35 minutes on the phone, Mr A said he had to
go. Barclays call handler said if Mr A had to go, no complaint could be logged. Mr A
contacted our service on As behalf on 5 December 2019 and asked us to help.
We contacted Barclays and on 10 February 2020 it sent a recall request to HMRC.
Barclays issued its final response on 24 February 2020 and apologised for the error made
on 29 November 2019. Barclays said that it can take up to 20 days to recall funds and that
doing so could have left A in arrears with HMRC.
It has since come to light that HMRC was able to apply As payment to the correct account,
despite having the wrong reference.
Mr A asked us to look at As complaint and we asked Barclays for its case file. Within its
submission, Barclays said it had offered A £100 to resolve the complaint. But it has since
come to light that Barclays forgot to include the offer in its final response. Our investigator
thought Barclays had dealt with As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.
Mr A responded on As behalf and said £100 didnt reflect the amount of inconvenience
caused or costs to cover the time wasted. Mr A said he had spent 15 hours contacting
Barclays, HMRC, an accountant and this service to try and deal with the error. Mr A asked to
appeal, so As complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr A that the service A has received in relation to this payment has been poor.
There have been several problems as far as I can see. Barclays call handler used the wrong
reference despite having very clear guidance from Mr A. Once that error was identified, its
clear that Mr A wanted to two things to happen. Mr A wanted Barclays to take action to
resolve its error and he wanted to raise a complaint on As behalf.
Ive listened to Mr As call with Barclays from 29 November 2019. Whilst I accept Mr A could
have contacted HMRC about the transfer, I think its very clear that Mr A didnt want to do
that. During what was a long call, Mr A repeatedly said Barclays needed to fix its mistake.
Whilst a recall of funds can take up to 20 days, I think Barclays should have started the
process on 29 November 2019 when Mr A called. A recall was initiated in February 2020,
after our service get involved, and Barclays went on to explain that the situation had been
resolved by HMRC. Had a recall been initiated on 29 November 2019, Mr A wouldve been
given that information a lot sooner.
Mr A also said A wanted to complain and was put through to a complaint handler. Having
listened to the call, Im surprised that no complaint was logged as Mr A still wanted to talk
about ways Barclays might be able to resolve its error and find out what his options were.
Mr A called Barclays back on 5 December 2019 and spent around 35 minutes on the phone,
much of time he was on hold. Ive listened to the call and heard lengthy discussions between
Barclays staff about whether a complaint had been raised already and what department
Mr A needed to be transferred to. When the call handler returned, Mr A said he was still
waiting to find out what steps had been taken to resolve the payment issue and asked for a
reference number for his complaint. Mr A explained that he couldnt stay on the line any
longer and the call handler said that meant no complaint would be raised. I think the service
provided during this call was poor. I dont think its fair to keep Mr A on the line for over half
an hour without raising a recall request or a complaint  the key things he wanted Barclays
to do.
On 10 February 2020 a complaint handler called Mr A and agreed to raise a recall request
for A. It appears that around 21 February 2020 HMRC contacted Barclays and confirmed the
payment had been correctly allocated despite the incorrect reference. This is the information
A was looking for. If Barclays had initiated a recall request on 29 November 2020, A would
have been given that information around two months earlier.
Barclays wanted to offer A £100 but has told us the complaint handler forgot to include the
award in the final response. Mr A has told us As costs for time spent dealing with Barclays
error means £100 isnt fair. I agree that £100 doesnt reflect the impact of what happened or
the amount of time A s director, Mr A, spent on the phone.
Whilst Barclays may be correct when it says A could have contacted HMRC directly, Im
satisfied it was clear on the 29 November 2019 call that Mr A wasnt willing to do that. I think
Barclays should have raised the recall request at that point which would have seen the
matter resolved, one way or another, within 20 days. Instead, no recall was raised and no
complaint was logged until February 2020.
Mr A has said that A spent a lot of time on this matter and that the £100 offer fails to reflectthat. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I agree the £100 offer is too low and fails to
reflect the inconvenience caused. So, I intend to uphold As complaint and direct Barclays to
increase the award for the inconvenience caused from £100 to £250. In my view, that figure
more reasonably reflects the impact on A and the inconvenience caused.
I invited A and Barclays to respond with any comments or new information they wanted me 
to consider before I made my decision. Barclays responded to say it accepted the 
provisional decision. We didnt hear back from A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think As complaint should be 
upheld and that Barclays should pay £250 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay A £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman