DRN-4262929
The complaint
Mrs Ts complains Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) have refused to reinstate her life assurance 
policy after it lapsed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
First, I note Mrs T has referenced a similar complaint she made against another 
business on which that business has proposed a different resolution to Zurich. 
Its important to say each complaint is looked at on its own merits. Within this 
complaint Im looking solely at the actions of Zurich.
Its not in dispute Mrs Ts policy lapsed due to non-payment of the premiums. The 
last premium to be received was in May 2021.
Zurich made two attempts to claim the premium for June 2021 and wrote to her to 
advise the plan was underpaid. After receiving no response, Zurich wrote to Mrs T 
again in August 2021 to let her know the policy had ended.
I understand Mrs T didnt receive Zurichs letters until June 2022 as she was staying 
away from her residential property for reasons outside of her control. 
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mrs T found herself in, but I must consider 
Zurichs actions. Zurich wrote to Mrs T at the address they held for her. Zurich 
werent informed Mrs Ts contact details had changed, nor that she would be away 
from her residential address for over a year. Had they been I wouldve expected them 
to have written to her at any new location provided or agreed to have communicated 
with her in a different way.
In respect of the policy lapsing, I cant say Zurich did anything wrong here.
Mrs T has asked for the policy to be reinstated and has offered to pay-up the 
premiums missed. But Zurich have confirmed this isnt an option due to the time 
thats passed.
When Zurich wrote to Mrs T in August 2021, they explained theyd consider 
reinstatement of the policy within 90 days of the first missed premium. But it was a 
year after the first missed premium before they heard from Mrs T again.
Zurich have confirmed Mrs T would need to take out a new plan should she want 
future cover.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed with my findings, Im satisfied Zurich 
acted fairly and reasonably when communicating with her. And they didnt receive a 
request to reinstate the policy within the required 90 days.
I dont find that Zurich made an error, so I wont be asking them to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman