DRN-1659013
The complaint
Mr G and Ms H have complained to us about a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy they bought from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester, in May 2000 and then later, in March 2002.They say the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr G and Ms H bought the first policy at the same time as they took out a mortgage with 
Lloyds. They later increased their cover when they took out some additional borrowing. 
They were both covered by the policy for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr G and Ms H say they didnt need the MPPI. They also say they may have taken out the 
cover so that they would be accepted for the mortgage lending and extra borrowing they 
needed. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. Because Mr G and Ms H disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr G and Ms H say they bought the MPPI during a phone conversation  although Lloyds 
has said they agreed to take out the MPPI and later increase it at a meeting in a branch. But 
there is no dispute that Lloyds made a recommendation that they should buy the cover. That 
means Lloyds had the responsibility of ensuring that the MPPI was suitable for Mr G and 
Ms Hs situation and that the information it provided about them was clear enough. 
In reaching my decision Ive relied on the paperwork thats available plus what I already 
know about how Lloyds sales happened at the time. Ive also kept in mind that Mr G and 
Ms H would likely have had the opportunity to review the paperwork that Lloyds had 
prepared on each occasion before signing it. 
When Mr G and Ms H applied for their mortgage in September 2000, I see they ticked a box 
to show they were interested in taking out MPPI. By doing so, they were also confirming that 
theyd filled out a separate MPPI proposal form. They also ticked a box saying the same 
thing when they applied for their further borrowing in March 2002. Ive also had a look at the 
MPPI proposal forms that Mr G and Ms H both signed when they applied for the MPPI 
alongside their borrowing. Each of these specified the amount of cover they wanted for their 
mortgage and that they wanted the cover to be joint. 
So it seems to me that for each of the MPPI sales, Mr G and Ms H were aware they were 
making a specific decision about purchasing cover go with their borrowing. 
Lastly, on each occasion, Ive seen that Mr G and Ms H gave Lloyds their bank account 
details so that the MPPI premiums  which were separate to their mortgage payments  
could be taken. Thats something else that makes me think they realised they were making a 
definite decision about buying and increasing the level of their MPPI cover. 
This all took place quite some time ago, and I have to consider the possibility that Mr G and 
Ms H may not remember exactly what went on during each application process, including 
their decision to take and then increase MPPI cover  nor would I expect them to. So without 
any further evidence to support what theyve told me, I think its likely that Mr G and Ms H 
decided to take out the MPPI to help protect their mortgage repayments. I think they did so 
because they thought the cover would be useful to them. 
Ive next looked at whether Mr G and Ms H were disadvantaged by any of the policy 
conditions or limitations. The information Ive seen makes me think they were both eligible 
for the cover, in good health and in permanent employment. So I think theyd have been able 
to make a successful claim on the policy had they needed to.
For a successful claim, the MPPI would pay out for up to 12 months. Mr G and Ms H told us 
they were entitled to some benefits from their employers if they were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. They say theyre benefits wouldve covered them for 6 months at full 
pay followed by a further 6 months at half pay. The MPPI wouldve paid out alongside and 
for longer than these employer benefits. The MPPI would also have paid out if either Mr G or 
Ms H were unfortunate enough to lose their job. So I think on balance that Mr G and Ms H 
had a use for the policy and that it was suitable for their situation. 
Ive also kept in mind that MPPI would have paid out alongside any other resources that they 
could access, such as the savings Mr G and Ms H have told us about. Having MPPI might 
well have avoided the need to dig into these savings, or other financial resources that Mr G 
and Ms H might have had. So overall, I think its likely that Mr G and Ms H chose to buy the 
MPPI cover for the protection and reassurance it provided  even though they dont now 
remember doing so.
From the paperwork Ive seen it looks as if Mr G and Ms H ought to have been provided with 
details of the cost of cover at around the time of first taking the MPPI and then later when 
they increased their cover. Ive seen that this started at £16.80 then later increased to 
£18.51 with the additional borrowing. Ive no way of knowing for certain that they received 
these details, although I would have expected them to receive a schedule showing this 
information by way of confirmation  and Ive seen a copy of the initial schedule of cover with 
its covering letter to them. In any event, I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr G 
and Ms H might have had problems paying for the cover. 
I can also see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way information 
was given to Mr G and Ms H about the cover - for instance, in relation to telling them about 
the cost of each policy. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr G and Ms H would 
still have decided to buy them if theyd been better advised and informed.
Overall, whilst Ive looked at what happened carefully, Im not able to make a finding that this 
MPPI was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Ms H about this. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr G and Ms Hs complaint about this MPPI 
policy being mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman