DRN-3274494
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as A, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
unfairly required the partners to take out life assurance in connection with a loan. The 
partners also complain that the bank unreasonably failed to inform them of some missed 
payments on their loan. They consider the bank should waive the balance outstanding.
This complaint has been referred to us by a representative on behalf of the partnership. 
For ease of reading, I will refer only to A in this complaint and will treat everything thats 
been said on As behalf as if the partners had said it themselves.
What happened
In 2007, the partnership took out a twelve year loan with NatWest secured by a mortgage. It 
was repayable by monthly instalments. The partners say that they were required to each 
buy a term assurance policy to obtain this loan.
In 2009, a transfer of £17,000 was made from the loan account to the account of one of 
the partners.
In 2011, A began to have cashflow difficulties and the bank transferred the connection to a 
Specialised Relationship Manager. In January 2012, the bank transferred the partnership 
to its Global Restructuring Group (GRG).
In 2012, two monthly loan repayments were missed and in 2013, a further three were 
missed and two more made late.
In March 2016, an additional payment of around £32,000 was made into the loan, 
the equivalent of three monthly instalments.
Later in 2016, further instalments were missed and the monthly amount was increased 
by around £300.
In 2018, the partners complained to the banks voluntary GRG review scheme. The 
bank said that the parts of the complaint about the life assurance policy and the loan 
payments werent eligible for the GRG review, so it answered them through its main 
complaints process. The complaint wasnt upheld. The bank said that there was no 
evidence the partners had been forced to take out the life policies.
The GRG review didnt uphold the part of the complaint about missed loan 
repayments either. The bank declined the request to waive the balance on the loan.
In June 2019, the loan expired, with an outstanding balance of circa £71,000.
The partners asked our service to look into the complaint. One of our investigators 
concluded that we couldnt investigate the complaint about the life policies, because it 
hadnt been made in time under our rules. He looked into the complaint about the loan 
payments, but didnt think the bank had done anything wrong.
The partners disagreed with our investigator and asked an ombudsman to consider 
the following points:
The bank failed to charge the correct loan payments
The bank failed to notify the partners in a timely manner that the payments had 
been missed
The bank had agreed to waive the missed payments. That meant the loan was 
still performing and should not have attracted default interest.
If the bank had told the partners about the missed amounts, the partners would 
have made the payments and no additional interest would have accrued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. So Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached my 
findings regarding the loan payments below. But first, Ill explain my decision regarding 
the life policies.
Why we cant look into the complaint about the life policies
I want to make clear that this decision isnt about whether NatWest obliged the partners to 
buy life assurance or treated them s fairly or unfairly in relation to the life assurance. All I 
am deciding here is whether the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider their 
complaint.
As our investigator explained, we cant consider all of the complaints we receive. There 
are time limit rules. These are included in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, which can 
be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
If the bank doesnt agree to us considering the complaint (which it hasnt here), we can 
only look into it if:
the complaint was made within six months of the date of the final response letter 
from the bank
the complaint was made within six years of the date of the event the complaint is 
about
or, if later, if the complaint was made within three years of when the complainants 
knew, or should reasonably have known, they had reason to make the complaint
unless a complaint was made within the time periods above and theres a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of it  or the delay in making the complaint 
was caused by exceptional circumstances. 
The complaint A has referred to us is in time under the six month part of the rule. So I only 
need to consider the other elements of the rules.
The partnership took out the loan (and the life assurance) in 2007. They complained in 
2018, more than six years later. In this case, the circumstances of the purchase of the life 
policies were known to the partners at the time. So the three year part of the rule doesnt 
give them any extra time. This is in contrast to the complaint about the missed payments, 
which they werent aware of at the time.The partnership hasnt made me aware of any earlier complaint or any 
exceptional circumstances which would have prevented it from making the 
complaint earlier.
I know that the partners feel strongly that there is an unfairness here, but I simply have no 
power to investigate what NatWest has done in relation to the life policies. Any findings I 
did make would be unenforceable.
Im satisfied that the complaint regarding the missed loan payments is in time, as I dont 
think the partners were aware of their reason to complain until 2016. Their complaint 
was made within three years of this. So next Ill give my findings on that part of the 
complaint.
Why Im not going to require the bank to waive the balance on the loan
This complaint largely comes down to a dispute about what the bank meant when it 
reached an agreement with A about the missing loan instalments in 2016.
There appear to be few records about the first few years of As loan. Neither party seems to 
know anything about the transfer of £17,000, which the bank statements show was made to 
one of the partners in 2009. And there are no records of communication regarding the 
missed payments in 2012. But I dont think its likely that the bank failed to charge the 
correct
- or any  repayments in those months, as As representative has suggested.
Loan repayments were made monthly by an automated BACS transfer. I think its highly 
unlikely that the banks systems would have missed a couple of months. I can also see 
from the current account bank statements that the months when payments were missed 
coincide with months when the account was overdrawn. So I think its far more likely that 
the payments were reversed due to lack of funds.
In the light of the partnerships overdraft, I think its unlikely that, if the bank had made the 
partners aware of the arrears in 2012, A would have made up the payments at that time. I 
think that the bank made A aware of the missed payments in 2016. And A still chose to 
take no action to repay them at that point.
Both sides agree that neither were aware of the arrears for some years. The banks 
internal credit notes from 2016 indicate that they had only just come to light at that time: 
until recently both bank and customer were unaware that the payments had been 
missed.
A said in its complaint summary of February 2019 that the partnership had recently 
been made aware of the missed payments. But as Ive said above, I think A had known 
since 2016. The banks records from November 2016 say:
We have discussed the options available with the customer as follows:-
i) Bank waives the missed repayments and changes the monthly 
repayments to repay the loan in full.
ii) Bank waives the missed repayments and leaves the monthly 
repayments on the full understanding of the bank and the customer that 
this will result in the residual at the loan expiry.
iii) Make up the missed repayments and leave the repayments, which should 
see the loan repaid in full in the term [with] nominal residuals.The customer has considered the above options and wishes to seek the 
banks agreement to option (ii) i.e., to waive the missed repayments and 
leave the repayments at the current level.
I think its more likely than not that this conversation took place as recorded, as I see no 
reason why the bank would fabricate it. I note that option (ii) is the least attractive to the 
bank from a risk perspective, in that the debt would stay higher for longer, but it was 
beneficial for A in the short term, in that it avoided further pressure on cashflow to make up 
the arrears.
A has argued that, by waive the missed repayments, the bank meant write off that much 
of the debt. But I think the banks records make it clear that it didnt mean that, but rather to 
waive the requirement to make up the deficit. That would of course result in a higher 
balance on the loan for longer. I have seen no evidence that the bank intended to write off 
the amount of the arrears and I see no reason why it would have made such an offer.
As representative has argued that the bank made an error in failing to inform the 
partnership about the missed loan repayments. I dont accept this argument. Whilst it is 
common business practice to write to customers about missed payments, I dont think this 
is something that the bank was contractually obliged to do. And I dont think failure to do so 
alters the borrowers obligations.
The partners entered into a contract with the bank, under which they agreed to certain 
obligations, the chief of which being making monthly repayments. On the other hand, I 
have looked carefully at the loan agreement and there is nothing that obliged the bank to 
chase A for missed instalments. So I think the onus was on A to repay and to keep track of 
the repayments via its bank statements.
I know A has mentioned default interest in its response to our investigators findings. But 
the bank has confirmed to me that the outstanding loan continues to incur interest at base 
+ 1.35%, the original rate agreed, and has never incurred default interest. So I dont think 
A has suffered a loss due to default interest.
A will have paid more interest than it would have done if all repayments had been made in 
accordance with the original schedule. But I dont consider this to be the banks fault. A 
has chosen to borrow more from the bank for longer. If A had wanted to reduce its overall 
interest bill, then it could have chosen to repay the arrears when the bank drew them to its 
attention in 2016. But it chose the option which was going to leave it paying the highest 
amount over the duration of the loan.
I understand that the partners are unhappy that they still have a residual balance 
outstanding on the loan. But my conclusion is that this is not the banks fault. So Im not 
going to require them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman