DRN-1437313
The complaint
Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss M bought the policy in 2006 in connection with a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
I think Capital One made Miss M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because Miss M did tick the box on the credit card application form 
to show that she wanted the cover. And there was nothing on the application form to 
suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the credit card.
Miss M suggests she discussed the PPI on the phone with Capital One, and that she 
was put under pressure during that call to take the cover. I think its possible that 
discussion took place when Miss M called to activate her credit card.
But from what we know about Capital Ones phone sales processes at the time, its 
likely that Miss M wouldve been made aware that the PPI was optional. 
From everything Ive seen, and without anything else to support what Miss M has told 
me, I dont think I can safely say that Capital One didnt make her aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. So it didnt have to ask about any other means Miss M had to cover 
her repayments. 
But even if Capital One had recommended the policy to Miss M, it doesnt look as 
though it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. 
Even though Miss M says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Miss M if she couldnt work.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Miss M would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Capital One does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Miss 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman