DRN-3933945
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James 
Independent Financial Advisers (HJS) regarding the transfer of benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr B with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £119,668.38.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. A decision about joining the BSPS2 needed to be 
made by 11 December 2017. This was later extended to 22 December 2017. A decision 
about whether to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension needed to be made by the 
end of January 2018.
Mr B was discussing his BSPS pension with another financial adviser, which Ill call Firm C. 
He says that Firm C recommended that he transfer out of the BSPS and began putting 
together the relevant paperwork. But Firm C then contacted him to say it was unable to 
complete the transfer. Mr B says he spoke to Firm C over the phone, and it told him this 
wouldnt be a problem as it had arranged for HJS to complete the process.
HJS recommendation report confirmed Mr B was introduced to it by Firm C. And its notes 
indicate the reason for this was the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had 
instructed Firm C not to take on further pension work due to capacity issues. And this was 
why Mr B was introduced to HJS.
Mr B first met with HJS on 6 December 2017  at which point there was still time to opt into 
the BSPS2. It completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Mr B was 48, married with one financially dependent child. He was in good health 
generally but had suffered a sporting injury in the past which had at times required surgery 
and absence from work. Mr B was employed full time earning approximately £32,000 per 
year. Mrs B was also employed. They had a surplus income in excess of £1,500 per month. 
Mr B owned their home, with no mortgage, with Mrs B also owning a second property 
outright from which she received rental income. They also had savings of around £10,000. 
The only debt listed was a car loan to which Mr B paid £164 per month.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr B was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, to which he and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary. Mrs B was also noted as having 
good pension provisions, but details of these were not provided.
Mr B said he didnt intend to retire before age 65 and didnt envisage changing employer. 
Mr B expected he and his wife would need a combined income of £2,000 per month in 
retirement, with £1,500 being the minimum required to meet essential expenditure. He didnt 
have any plans that required access to tax-free cash. HJS recorded that Mr B was interested 
in transferring because he wanted control of his pension due to a lack of trust given what 
had happened with the BSPS and a scepticism towards the BSPS2 and the PPF. It also said 
he was interested in having flexibility and the alternative death benefits a personal pension 
would provide.
HJS also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. It recorded that he agreed with this but also that he wanted low volatility in his 
pension investments.
HJS has provided a written summary of its recommendation, dated 5 January 2018. This 
explained why it was a requirement for Mr B to take financial advice about a DB transfer  
because of the nature of the benefits being discussed. It noted that the easy thing would be 
to say dont transfer but that wouldnt be fair to you. Rather HJS would make a 
recommendation based on Mr Bs circumstances. 
The report discussed critical yields  the rate at which the pension fund would need to grow 
by each year in order to purchase equivalent guaranteed benefits at retirement to those the 
existing scheme offered. And HJS said the rates it had calculated, 9.15% for taking a full 
pension at age 65 and 7.31% for drawing tax-free cash and a reduced pension, were 
achievable. It also said the amount of tax-free cash available under a personal pension, 
which HJS said was important to Mr B, would be higher and so this was a favourable 
indicator for recommending a transfer, Mr B would potentially be better off in a flexible 
drawdown plan and the improved death benefits were also a good reason to recommend a 
transfer.
The report then however concluded by saying that HJS recommended that Mr B did not 
transfer, saying because of his injury his long-term employment future was questionable and 
the spouses benefit offered under the DB scheme was favourable for Mrs B. Even while 
explaining this conclusion though HJS said the level of income offered by the BSPS or the 
PPF was not enough to cover Mr Bs requirements in retirement.
HJS has also provided a copy of another letter to Mr B, dated 9 January 2018. This said, 
following its meeting with Mr B on 8 January 2018 and his letter confirming he still wished to 
proceed with the transfer against its advice, it was happy to facilitate this for him. HJS has 
provided a copy of the handwritten letter from Mr B that this report referred to, but it is 
undated.
The report from 9 January 2018 went on to say, after careful consideration, HJS 
recommended that Mr B transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension with a specific new provider. It also recommended how the fund should be invested. The report said this 
was suitable because Mr B had stated he wanted to transfer to an arrangement under his 
control. The letter said the transfer paperwork would be submitted immediately, because of 
the short deadline for the BSPS to be informed.
Mr B asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into the advice hed received in 2021. He said 
Firm C had advised him to transfer and indicated the provider that it would recommend. He 
says, as he understood it the matter had just been passed to HJS to conclude  which he felt 
was supported by it recommending the same pension provider that Firm C had discussed. 
Mr B said, at no point during his meetings and discussions with HJS did it tell him verbally 
not to transfer and he understood its advice to be that a transfer was right for him. He said 
he hadnt been provided with the written recommendations before proceeding and 
completing the application forms and had only read these when details of potential issues 
with advice to transfer became public. Mr B said the letter hed written saying he wanted to 
go ahead with the transfer had been requested by HJS. He says it told him this was needed 
because of his injury and how this might impact his job going forward and he says he was 
told by HJS what to say in the letter. Mr B also says that his injury wasnt as significant as 
HJS had suggested. 
HJS said it was not upholding Mr Bs complaint as it had advised him not to transfer and his 
decision to do so was taken against this advice. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought it should be upheld and that 
HJS should compensate Mr B for any loss the DB transfer had led to and pay £300 for the 
distress caused to him. Our Investigator thought Mr B was always unlikely to improve on his 
retirement benefits by transferring. And there was no other reason that meant transferring 
was in his best interests, noting that alternatives for leaving a legacy for his family had either 
not been explored or unreasonably discounted. But the written recommendation had 
indicated that HJS actually referred to several of these things as being reasons that 
transferring was a good idea, before eventually saying a transfer wasnt recommended. And 
she didnt feel that the advice HJS had provided had made it clear that a transfer wasnt 
suitable, as the information in the initial recommendation was contradictory. She thought that 
contradictory and misleading information had likely led Mr B to proceed and, if clearer advice 
had been given, she didnt think Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring. She thought, if 
clearer information had been given from the outset by HJS, Mr B wouldve opted into the 
BSPS2.
HJS disagreed. It said it felt the items within the recommendation that the Investigator felt 
were contradictory or misleading were at the most minor. But it also said there wasnt any 
evidence that Mr B had relied on these when hed gone ahead. And it felt it had been clear 
about the options available to him and the risks. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of HJS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. This includes COBS 19.1.6G in which the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
Was a transfer suitable for Mr B?
HJS carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This was completed on 
20 December 2017.
The critical yields were all calculated on the basis that Mr B expected to retire at age 65  
which I think was correct. But it isnt clear from the TVAS report Ive been provided whether 
the benefits available under the DB scheme that the report considered were those offered 
through the existing BSPS or the new BSPS2. This is because the details of the revaluation 
and escalations rates arent entirely consistent with either of those schemes, when looking at 
the types of benefits accrued.  However, based on the use of RPI for revaluation and 
escalation, the figures appear more likely to have been based on matching Mr Bs existing 
scheme, the BSPS. 
But Mr B didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the 
BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. I can see that critical yield figures were 
calculated for matching the benefits hed have received through the PPF. But I think these 
also ought to have been calculated for the benefits the BSPS2 would offer, as details were 
available at the point HJS carried out its analysis.
While critical yields dont appear to have been calculated in respect of what the BSPS2 
would offer from age 65 I can make reasonable assumptions about what these were likely to 
be. The BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual 
revaluation pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve been lower. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat 
compared to the BSPS. But, based on my experience of other complaints, I think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the benefits offered by PPF, particularly at 
age 65. So, they were likely to fall between the critical yields for the BSPS and the PPF, and 
probably have been closer to those of the BSPS.
The critical yield required to match the full annual pension the TVAS estimated Mr B wouldve been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65 (starting at £8,139 per year) was 9.15%. 
Or to match the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) and reduced annual pension he couldve 
taken under the PPF (estimated to be £35,963 and a reduced starting pension of £5,394) the 
critical yield was 7.31%.
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid at age 65 (estimated to start at £6,970.61 
per year) the critical yield was 6.14%. And to match the estimated TFC and reduced pension 
the PPF wouldve offered at age 65 (£36,277.97 of TFC and a pension starting at £5,427.12) 
the critical yield was 5.72%.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.3% per year for 16 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B giving up 
the guarantees available to him only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside 
the DB scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was higher than the discount rate 
and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
desire for low volatility and his balanced attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the 
scheme moved to the PPF.
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
And I dont think he was likely to be better off in retirement as a result of transferring.  Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. 
HJS said in its recommendation letter that Mr B was interested in flexibility in terms of how 
he could draw his benefits in retirement. It also said that he was interested in maximising his 
TFC. But I cant see that Mr B had a genuine need for flexibility or access to TFC. 
Mr B had no significant debts recorded that would require repayment via a lump sum and 
there was nothing recorded in the fact find about his future plans which indicated a need for 
access to a lump sum. In addition, Mr B was over 16 years from when he expected to retire. 
So, any plans at that stage were unlikely to be finalised. So, while I dont doubt that access 
to a large sum mightve sounded appealing, I dont think he needed this or that it was in his 
best interests to make an irreversible decision to transfer his pension benefits for this 
purpose. And I cant see, from the fact-find, that it was actually recorded that he had 
expressed a preference for this anyway.
In terms of income, HJS recorded that Mr B expected that he and Mrs B would require 
approximately £2,000 per month in retirement. Its clear from the information in the TVAS 
about what the BSPS or PPF were expected to provide at retirement that this pension alone was unlikely to meet these needs. But it wouldve gone some way to meeting Mr Bs income 
needs, without him taking any risk with it. And as Ive explained, by transferring I think Mr B 
was likely to receive lower overall benefits in retirement. 
Mr B was also a member of his employers new defined contribution pension. Based on his 
salary and the level of contribution being made and before even accounting for growth, Mr B 
increasing contributions or being awarded any pay rises, its likely that by age 65 this policy 
wouldve been worth around £82,000. And he couldve accessed this flexibly. Mrs B was 
also eight years younger than Mr B but I understand intended to also work to 65. So, her 
salary wouldve met their combined needs in Mr Bs early years of retirement. Mrs B also 
received income from another source  rent from a property  which would also have 
contributed towards meeting household income requirements. And Mr B would have begun 
receiving state pension from age 67  before Mrs B retired. And it was noted that Mrs B had 
good pension provisions of her own.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr B needed to transfer and to have flexibility in 
how he drew his income from this pension in order to meet his income objectives. So, I dont 
think it was in his best interests to transfer his DB pension, which is a one-off event from 
which there is no going back, at the point he did and give up the guaranteed escalating 
benefits hed have been entitled to just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
HJS recorded that the option of potentially leaving the pension as a lump sum to his wife and 
child appealed to Mr B. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers the priority here was what was best 
for Mr Bs retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. 
The DB scheme provided death benefits  a spouses and dependents pension. These 
couldve been useful to Mr Bs wife and child in the event he predeceased them. And these 
were guaranteed and escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And while the CETV figure 
would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the amount remaining on 
death following a transfer was always likely to be different to that figure  unless Mr B had 
passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being dependent on investment 
performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr B drew in his lifetime. And 
given Mr B was recorded as generally being in good health, notwithstanding the injury he 
was recovering from, there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to live until at least his 
average life expectancy. So, the fund couldve been significantly depleted by the time it 
came to be passed on and may not have provided the legacy that Mr B may have thought.
It appears that HJS obtained quotes for life insurance as an alternative. But in the suitability 
report it said it discounted this as the death benefits through a pension outweighed these, as 
they had a value that could be accessed during Mr Bs lifetime. But to access lump sum 
death benefits through the pension meant giving up guarantees. So, I dont agree with HJS 
reason for discounting this as a suitable alternative. And, based on Mr Bs disposable 
income, this appears to have been an affordable option for him.
From what I can see Mr B also had death in service benefits through his employer for a 
significant amount, which also appears, in my view, to have been a more appropriate way of 
leaving a legacy to his family.So, overall, I dont think the alternative death benefits available through a personal pension 
meant that a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests, particularly given the likely decrease to his 
retirement benefits.
HJS recorded that Mr B had concerns about how his pension had been handled and so 
wanted to move his pension away from his employer and have control over how it was 
invested.
I dont doubt Mr B, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr B was potentially 
worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative things about this 
outcome. And Mr B may well have had negative feelings towards his employers handling of 
his pension so far, which I think was a reasonable emotional response. But the trustees of 
the pension scheme, and the new BSPS2 were not one and the same as his employer. I 
also note Mr B was continuing to work for the same employer, doesnt appear to have any 
intention to change this and was a member of the employers new DC scheme. So, the 
relationship does not appear to have been broken down to the extent that HJS has 
suggested.
By the time Mr B first spoke to HJS, details of the BSPS2 were known. And it seemed likely 
this was going ahead. This scheme offered guaranteed benefits, the trustees managing it 
were not one and the same as Mr Bs employer and it appears he was unlikely to improve on 
the benefits it wouldve offered. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as Mr B mightve thought. While the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
it would still have provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to 
any investment risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I 
dont think he was likely to be substantially better off, such that taking this risk was in his 
interests. So, I dont think any concerns Mr B had meant that a transfer was suitable for him.
And I also think Mr Bs desire for control of his pension was overstated. Mr B was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. And indeed, the recommendation seems to have 
been based on him taking ongoing financial advice about his pension, at a cost  which he 
wouldnt have incurred under his existing scheme. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think a transfer was suitable for Mr B. He was giving up 
a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
The advice HJS provided and whether this was clear and suitable
HJS says it advised against transferring. And the recommendation letter dated 5 January 
2018 concludes by saying that it recommends Mr B does not transfer  because the 
spouses pension would be useful to Mrs B and Mr Bs longer-term employment, and 
capacity to build further pension benefits, was unclear based on his injury.
But like our Investigator, I think that this report shouldve been a lot clearer. The report 
included a lot of information to consider. But the penultimate page was the first time not 
recommending a transfer was mentioned or really contemplated. HJS said, when 
summarising why talking advice about a DB transfer was necessary that saying dont transfer would be the easy thing to do. But it said it that wouldnt be fair to Mr B. And gave no 
suggestion this was going to be its recommendation.
The report then went on to say that achieving the critical yields of 9.15% or 7.31% was in 
HJS opinion achievable. And it referenced a number of reasons that were favourable for 
recommending a transfer. HJS said Mr B was likely to receive more tax-free cash, which it 
said was important to him (although this doesnt appear to have been recorded as an 
objective in the fact-find). Having sufficient money easily accessible for emergencies would 
be useful  which the transfer provided. And because lump sum death benefits were 
important to Mr B and, as these were not offered by the scheme, this was another good 
reason to transfer. All of which was prior to there being any indication that HJS was advising 
against a transfer. And even when saying Mr B should not transfer, the report indicated that 
the income the BSPS and PPF would provide wasnt enough to cover his requirements  
effectively arguing the existing benefits potentially werent right for Mr B.
For the reasons Ive already explained I dont think these things meant that a transfer was in 
Mr Bs interests. So, I think these statements were misleading. And I think theyd have 
created considerable doubt as to what HJS actually thought was best for Mr B.
HJS has said that we havent accounted for the overall tone of the report. But in my view 
the tone was very much that there were numerous reasons to transfer and why that would 
be a good thing for Mr B. It was not, in my view, in line with the regulators starting position 
that a transfer wont usually be suitable for most customers. Prior to the conclusion, beyond 
talking about the general risks involved, there was no indication in my view that HJS thought 
transferring wasnt potentially in Mr Bs interests or that it was going to advise him against 
doing so. So, I dont agree with HJS that the tone of the report made the advice clearer.
HJS says, while it doesnt agree that the letter was unclear, there was no suggestion that 
Mr B relied on this. So, the content of the report didnt make a difference here. 
Mr B has said that he didnt receive a copy of either the letter of 5 January 2018 or the follow 
up letter of 9 January 2018 before meeting with HJS and completing the relevant application 
forms. The first recommendation letter was dated 5 January 2018. Mr B appears to have met 
with HJS on the next working day, 8 January 2018. Accounting for delivery times I think it is 
unlikely that Mr B saw this report before attending that meeting. And based on the content of 
the letter dated 9 January 2018, it appears the application for a transfer was made based on 
the meeting  and before that second letter wouldve been received by Mr B. HJS may have 
shown Mr B a copy of the first letter when it met with him on 8 January 2018. But I doubt he 
had any time to really consider its content. So, on balance, it appears correct that he didnt 
have sight of either of the letters prior to applying to transfer. And Mr B has also said he 
didnt read either of these letters until well after the transfer had gone through. So, taking 
account of what hes said, it appears to be the case that he didnt rely on these written 
reports when transferring.
But that doesnt mean the flaws in the recommendation are irrelevant. Given the above it 
appears likely that Mr B entirely relied on the discussion he had with HJS on 8 January 2018 
when proceeding with the application. Mr B says HJS did not make him aware that a transfer 
was unsuitable for him during his verbal discussions. And he was under the impression it 
agreed with what hed previously been told by Firm C, that a transfer was suitable.
The recommendation letter likely formed the basis of that discussion. As Ive said, I think the 
letter was misleading and unclear about the overall recommendation. So, it follows in my 
view, that discussion about the recommendation likely had similar problems. And so, on 
balance I dont think it was likely to have been clear to Mr B that HJS did not think a transfer 
was suitable, when the application to transfer was made.I am conscious that there is a handwritten letter from Mr B saying that he wanted to proceed 
with the transfer and that he understood HJS advice. HJS said this was received on 
8 January 2018, although I note the copy is undated. Again, Mr B met with HJS on 8 January 
2018. And by that point, as Ive explained, I dont think he is likely to have had sight of or 
time to consider the recommendation letter, dated the previous working day. So, I think on 
balance that handwritten letter was likely completed during the meeting  if as HJS says it 
was received on that day. Mr B says he was told what to write in the letter by HJS. And the 
wording of the letter does in my view suggest Mr B was likely to have had help drafting it 
from HJS. As a result, I dont think, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, that this is 
enough to say that Mr B understood the advice he had received or that he was in a 
sufficiently informed position to make the decision to proceed on an insistent client basis.
Would Mr B have acted differently?
Of course, I have to consider what wouldve happened if HJS had provided a fairer and 
clearer recommendation, without the misleading statements about why a transfer was 
potentially in Mr Bs interests and given him appropriate time to consider this.
Ive considered this carefully. Ive borne in mind that Mr B has told us that Firm C had 
already suggested to him that a transfer was suitable. So, he mightve already been under 
the impression, before speaking to HJS, that this was right for him. And, although I think he 
was likely told what to say in the handwritten letter he completed about transferring, Im 
conscious that he did write this, and didnt question its content. 
But I think its clear that Mr B was an inexperienced investor. He was recorded as having a 
balanced attitude to risk, but he also seems to have been clear he didnt think it was 
appropriate to take anything other than a minimal risk with his pension  as HJS stated this 
in its recommendation letter. And this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provisions at the time.
With that in mind, if HJS had provided Mr B with clear and unambiguous advice (and the 
proper time to read and digest it) that transferring was not in his best interests  particularly if 
it had been clear he was very unlikely to improve on the benefits he was due under the 
scheme, including those the PPF would offer, that there were suitable alternative death 
benefits available through insurance and that he didnt need flexibility or control and had 
challenged any thoughts he had about why this was appealing - I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about what had happened to that point with his 
pension and any thoughts he might have had after discussions with Firm C were so 
insurmountable that he wouldve insisted on the transfer had he fully understood that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he says Firm C recommended to him, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. I think a clearer explanation from HJS wouldve 
carried significant weight. And so, but for the failings in the advice process by HJS, I dont 
think Mr B wouldve transferred his pension.
In light of the above, I think HJS should compensate Mr B for any losses the transfer has 
resulted in.
By the time that HJS made its recommendation, it was no longer possible for Mr B to opt into 
the BSPS2. But hed had this option when he first met with HJS and it completed its fact find.
HJS seems to have started its advice process by 6 December 2017 at the latest, when it 
completed a fact find with Mr B and gathered a significant amount of information about his 
circumstances. HJS wouldve been aware at that point of the impending deadline to opt into the BSPS2. Details of the BSPS2 were known at that time, including revaluation and 
escalation rates of the pension benefits it provided. And while it was the case that the PPF 
might provide greater benefits for people who retired very early, it was also generally known 
that, for those expecting to retire at the scheme normal retirement age the BSPS2 was 
generally likely to provide greater benefits. 
HJS was also aware of how long its advice process was likely to take and that this might not 
be completed before the deadline to join the BSPS2 had elapsed. 
Given HJS was acting as Mr Bs adviser at that time, and the requirement of it to have due 
regard for and to act in his interests, I think it wouldve been appropriate for HJS to suggest 
to Mr B that he should opt into the BSPS2 while he had the option to do so. On the 
understanding that it would still consider and advise on whether a transfer away from his DB 
scheme entirely, was suitable. I think HJS was in a position to suggest this to Mr B. And, for 
the same reasons I think hed have followed its advice had this been clearer, I think Mr B 
wouldve followed this suggestion.
On balance therefore, if HJS had done this and had given clearer advice, I think Mr B 
wouldnt have transferred his pension benefits and would instead now hold benefits in the 
BSPS2. So, I think compensation, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology, should be on this basis.
Our Investigator recommended that HJS also pay Mr B £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr B has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in. I consider Mr B would have most likely remained in the DB 
scheme and opted into the BSPS2 had HJS done everything it shouldve here. 
HJS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
HJS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what HJS based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, HJS should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts HJSs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, HJS may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, HJS should pay Mr B £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hugh James Solicitors, 
trading as Hugh James Independent Financial Advisers to pay Mr B the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Hugh James Solicitors pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hugh James Solicitors.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman