DRN-1232830
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him incorrect information about a 
direct debit.
What happened
Mr W received a text message from Nationwide on 2 July 2019 telling him that he didn't have 
enough money in his account to pay a direct debit. He says he called Nationwide about this 
and was told the message was about a payment already made so he didn't transfer any 
money to cover the direct debit. But the payment was for his car insurance that had been 
renewed without his consent. Mr W says the policy was cancelled and he was charged £80 
in cancellation and late payment charges. He says he then had to borrow money from family 
to pay for a new insurance policy and would like Nationwide to pay for the £80 as well as 
£250 compensation. Mr W says Nationwide previously made a similar mistake and paid him 
that amount and so that has set a precedent, and it cost him £10 to go to his family 
member's home to borrow the money.
Nationwide accepts it made a mistake during an online conversation but says it can't trace 
the call in which the incorrect information was given. Its apologised and paid a total of £100 
compensation but says it's not prepared to pay the cancellation costs as that's a matter 
between Mr W and the insurance company.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and says he has now received the £80 costs back. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and thought overall the compensation paid was 
appropriate. The investigator accepted Mr W had received incorrect information but would 
have had to have looked for and taken out a new insurance policy and didn't think there was 
any evidence of the £10 travel costs. 
Mr W doesn't accept that view and maintains Nationwide has set a precedent in its 
payments and questions why it can't trace the call. He would like £250 compensation.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the overall 
view that Nationwide has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
There is no dispute here that Nationwide made a mistake by telling Mr W the text message 
was about a direct debit that had already been paid. I can see where the confusion came 
from as the two companies involved share a very similar name. I don't think it matters that 
Nationwide can't trace the call as it accepts it made a mistake during the online 
conversation. So the key issue is the level of compensation.
I appreciate that Mr W says he had a similar problem in the past and so the compensation 
he received then sets a precedent. I am sorry to disagree with Mr W but that is not the approach we take when considering complaints and that we look at each complaint 
individually to consider what took place. Having done so, I can see that Mr W was charged 
£80 by the insurance company for what took place but that money has now been refunded. I 
have no doubt Mr W was caused inconvenience  and would have spent some time trying to 
find out what took place. But I'm satisfied Nationwide's compensation payment of £100 fairly 
reflects the level of that inconvenience and is fair and reasonable.I can see that Mr W says 
the insurance policy was renewed without his consent so I think it likely he would have spent 
some time arranging a new policy in any event. I don't think Mr W has suffered any direct 
financial loss as he has been refunded the £80.
I also think that Mr W ought to take some responsibility for what took place as this was his 
account and this was a direct debit payment that had been in place for some time and it's his 
responsibility to mange his account.
Overall I'm satisfied that although Nationwide made a mistake, its acted fairly by paying a 
fair and reasonable level of compensation. And so I can't fairly order it to pay Mr W any 
further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman