DRN-3362635
The complaint
Mr T complains about a delay when he transferred his ISA to Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In their response to the complaint, Nationwide explained why thered been a delay 
transferring Mr Ts ISA. Apparently an internal communication in April 2021 wasnt acted on 
until June. Once this was noticed, the transfer was completed. Nationwide also backdated 
interest on the ISA to 1 April, and paid Mr T £150 compensation. 
Our investigator explained that this seemed like a reasonable way to resolve the matter. So 
she didnt uphold the complaint or ask Nationwide to do anything more. 
Mr T disagreed with that view, so the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator already explained. 
Its not disputed that Nationwide caused an unreasonable delay in this case. They should 
have acted on the internal communication within a couple of days, not two and half months. 
But given the failing in the service has been acknowledged by Nationwide, the question for 
me is really whether anything more is needed to put things right. 
I dont see theres been a financial loss for Mr T. His money has ultimately been transferred 
to his Nationwide ISA, as hed asked for. And Nationwides action to backdate the interest to 
1 April means he wont be out of pocket.
So the only matter to correct is that Mr T was upset by the delay, and had to spend his time 
chasing it up with Nationwide. That cant be undone. And emotions dont have set financial 
values that I can simply point to and say Nationwide should pay. But financial compensation 
can help to acknowledge where theres been these sorts of impacts. 
Nationwide have paid Mr T £150, using their knowledge and experience of our service. 
While I appreciate Mr Ts comments that this feels like theyre trying to buy off his complaint, 
this isnt the way I see it. I view this as Nationwide trying to put things right for him in a way 
thats fair. The fairness comes from making sure the compensation is in keeping with what 
wed direct to any other customer who found themselves in Mr Ts position. 
Looking at the impact on Mr T specifically, £150 seems to be the right figure. It reflects that a 
process that should take a few weeks took two and a half months. And it reflects that Mr T 
doesnt seem to have lost any money, or suffered particular financial hardship from not 
having the transfer done as quickly as it should have been. 
As no further action is needed, we dont regard this as an upheld complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman