DRN-3168541
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) has incorrectly calculated the 
value of his pension benefits.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of 
the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr B held occupational pension benefits through a policy provided by PIC. In early 
2018 Mr B told PIC that he wanted to take his retirement benefits and it provided him 
with a quotation for the payments he might receive. It seems that Mr B did not initially 
accept the quotation he had been sent by PIC. So when, in July 2018, Mr B did write 
to PIC to accept the quotation it explained to him that the quotation had expired and 
a new set of benefit figures would need to be calculated. These, based on a 
retirement date of 1 August 2018, were sent to Mr B on 7 August 2018.
In the letter that PIC sent to Mr B it explained that the figures it had provided were 
estimates. And since the relevant calculation factors changed on a monthly basis, the 
final figures would not be available until the date of Mr Bs retirement. It told him that 
it would get back in touch with him if the value of his pension benefits had reduced by 
more than 5%, otherwise it would implement his instructions based on the revised 
benefits.
When Mr B returned his acceptance form later in August, the calculation factors had 
changed, but his benefits had been reduced by much less than 5%. So in line with 
the information it had previously given to Mr B, PIC put his pension into payment.
Mr B initially complained that PICs letter had led him to believe that, if the benefits 
hadnt reduced by more than 5%, the original quotation would be honoured. However 
he has more recently clarified his complaint as being that the retirement factors used 
by PIC were as at the calculation date, rather than the retirement date. I think both 
matters are sufficiently closely linked that I should deal with them together in this 
decision.
I have looked carefully at how the calculation of the pension benefits was explained 
to Mr B. PIC said to him that;
The figures we quote are estimates based on current factors and we will 
need to recalculate your final benefits at your actual retirement date. We will 
pay your recalculated benefits in line with the option you choose on the 
retirement decision form, unless the benefits are more than 5% lower, in 
which case we will confirm the revised figures.
I appreciate that Mr Bs understanding of that paragraph differs from what PIC says it 
meant. On balance I would agree with PICs suggestion of the correct meaning. 
I particularly note that the information talks about paying the recalculated benefits  
I think that clearly suggests that there is an expectation that things might change. 
I dont think the wording I have set out above gives any assurance, as Mr B 
suggests, that the quoted benefits will be paid as long as they dont differ from the 
recalculated benefits by more than 5%.
So I think it is right that I should conclude that the pension benefits due to Mr B were 
those that were applicable on his actual retirement date, rather than the date the 
quotation was issued. So I dont currently think that part of his complaint should 
succeed.
 
In its final response letter to Mr B, PIC said the following;
Our cash commutation factors (CCF) do change on a monthly basis 
however, we do not receive new factors on a set date each month, so the 
factors are not applicable for the full calendar month. For example, we 
received the factors for February around the 15th therefore these factors will 
be used until we receive the new ones in March and we normally receive 
them between the 13th and 18th of each month.
But when I recently asked PIC for some further information about the applicable cash 
commutation factors it told me;
Please note that although the factors change mid-month, they cover the 
period of the whole month. E.g. the factors for May came in on 16/05 they 
cover the period of 01/05-31/05
I think it is clear that only one of those statements can be accurate. Either the factors 
apply, in part retrospectively, for a calendar month, or they apply for the period of a 
month following their implementation. I think that it is important that, in its response to 
this provisional decision, PIC provides further clarity on this matter, with supporting 
evidence both in terms of which statement is correct, and why misleading information 
was provided either to Mr B or this Service.
My conclusion, from a logical assessment of how pensions might be put into 
payment, is that the information PIC provided to Mr B is most likely to be the accurate 
representation of its policies. Otherwise, it would be necessary for PIC to delay 
putting any pensions into payment during the first half of a calendar month, until the 
new CCFs are received. I doubt that would be attractive, either administratively or in 
terms of customer service.
I think it should be clear that the CCF that should be used when calculating pension 
benefits is the CCF that was applicable on the date of retirement. That matches with 
the information PIC provided to Mr B when it explained that his benefits would be 
recalculated at his actual retirement date. But things were a little different in Mr Bs 
situation. PIC issued his retirement quotation on 7 August, but it was based on a 
retirement date of 1 August. The date that PIC used as the calculation point was 
much later in the month  and after the CCF had been updated on 13 August.
I am currently persuaded that the CCF that was relevant to Mr B was the factor that 
was applicable on 1 August - the date that PIC set as his retirement date, and the 
date from which his retirement benefits were payable. So given what I have said 
above about which CCFs I think should be considered relevant, I think that PIC has used the incorrect CCF when calculating the benefits that were due to Mr B. I think it 
should have used the CCF that was introduced on 14 July, rather than the CCF 
introduced on 13 August.
So in summary I think this part of Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr B has said that he accepts my provisional findings and that they 
mirror his own conclusions. But he also sent us some further analysis of the timeline he 
thinks should have been followed by PIC when calculating his benefits. PIC didnt agree with 
my provisional decision and provided some further explanations of its processes. Although 
I am only summarising here what PIC has said, I want to be clear that I have read, and 
carefully considered, its entire response.
PIC has explained that both the explanations of its process that I highlighted in my 
provisional decision were correct  but just in slightly different contexts. It says that its CCFs 
are based on data applicable to a calendar month. But it says that it takes its actuaries 
around two weeks to compile and check the CCF calculations, so they dont become 
available for use until the middle of the month. So, to prevent any administrative delays, in 
the early part of the month it uses the CCFs applicable to the previous month.
PIC says that was unnecessary in Mr Bs case since, although his retirement date was 
1 August he didnt actually return his paperwork until the new CCFs had been released  it 
says that those fairly applied to his retirement date. But it noted that, had Mr B actually 
returned his forms a week earlier, different CCFs would have been used  those for July. So 
it remains of the opinion that it hasnt treated Mr B unfairly.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the comments provided by both parties I am not minded that 
I should change my provisional findings. It seems that both Mr B and PIC accept what I have 
said about whether it was appropriate to amend the quoted benefits when the actual 
retirement date was reached. So that only leaves the matter of which CCF should be used to 
be decided here. And although I am not altering my conclusions on that matter I would like to 
provide some further commentary on the additional information that PIC has provided.
I am grateful for the detailed explanation that PIC has provided about its processes. But 
what PIC has described doesnt seem to me to have created a fair and reasonable outcome 
for Mr B. PIC itself has said that, had Mr B sent in his paperwork a week earlier, the pension 
income he would have received would have been different, despite there being no change to 
the actual date his pension commenced. That appears to me to create a whole host of 
potential issues where either a consumer or PIC could game the system and influence the 
amount of pension to be paid.
I think that is only reasonable to conclude that Mr B should be paid the pension that he 
would have received had his application been processed on the date used as the start date 
for his pension payments. So that means his pension should be calculated using the CCF 
that PIC had in hand at 1 August. And that means that I think his pension has been 
calculated incorrectly and PIC needs to put things right.   
Putting things rightI think that the CCF that PIC has used when calculating Mr Bs pension benefits is incorrect. 
PIC says that it used the CCF from mid-August (that I understand to be 16.6) whereas I think 
it should have used the CCF that became applicable in mid-July (that I understand to be 
17.6). So PIC should recalculate Mr Bs pension benefits using the July CCF and take the 
following actions;
Pay any additional pension commencement lump sum to Mr B
Calculate the total amount by which Mr Bs pension has been underpaid to date and 
pay that amount to him
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to both of these amounts from 
1 August 2018 to the date of settlement*.
Revise the amount of monthly pension payable to Mr B going forwards to reflect the 
application of the correct CCF.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PIC to take off tax from this interest. PIC must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct Pension Insurance 
Corporation plc to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman