DRN-3578355
Complaint
Miss H says that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) unfairly recorded a default on her credit file as a 
result of the overdraft she had on her current account.
Background
Miss H applied for a current account with Monzo in January 2018. At this stage she was 
given an overdraft with a limit of £750. In June 2021, Monzo sent Miss H a final demand, 
which is the equivalent of a default notice on an overdraft and provided Miss H with 30 days 
to repay her outstanding balance in full. 
As Miss Hs overdraft wasnt repaid during this period, Monzo closed Miss Hs account and 
recorded a default with credit reference agencies. Miss H was unhappy with this and 
complained. Monzo didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint and as Miss H remained dissatisfied 
she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs concerns. She thought that Monzo ought to 
have realised that Miss Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for her and therefore taken 
the action it took in June 2021, in April 2019  in other words our investigator thought that 
Monzo ought to have taken corrective steps in relation to Miss Hs overdraft in April 2019. 
Both Monzo and Miss H disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided to partially uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Ive started by considering Monzos initial decision to provide Miss H with an overdraft.
Monzos initial decision to provide the overdraft to Miss H
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint.
Monzo needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Monzo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss H 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Monzo provided Miss H with an overdraft that had a limit of £750. It says it agreed to          
Miss Hs application after it asked her about her income and carried out a credit search. Its 
unclear whether Monzo asked Miss H anything else about her financial circumstances at the 
time. But it says there was nothing in the information it obtained from the credit reference 
agency which warranted further checks or suggested that what was being advanced was 
unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about whats been provided. At this stage, I think it would be helpful for 
me to explain that Miss H was provided with a facility which needed to be repaid within a 
reasonable period of time, as long as it was utilised appropriately, rather than all in one go. 
And given the credit search information Monzo has provided, shows that Miss H little in the 
way of existing credit commitments and no previous difficulties repaying, Im satisfied that 
what Monzo learned about Miss H, was enough for it to reasonably conclude that she could 
afford to repay £750 within a reasonable period of time. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Monzo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when initially 
deciding to provide Miss H with an overdraft, with a limit of £750, in January 2018.
That said, while Monzo might not have acted unfairly when it initially decided to provide   
Miss H with an overdraft, Ive also gone on to look at whether Monzo acted fairly and 
reasonably in allowing Miss H to continue using it until June 2021.   
Monzos monitoring of Miss Hs overdraft facility  did Monzo act fairly and reasonably?
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges to an account. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this 
out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Monzo acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from April 2019. By this point, it 
was evident Miss Hs overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. A look at 
her statements leading up to this period shows that Miss H barely saw a credit balance in the 
year since shed starting her overdraft. There was also little in the way of income going into 
Miss Hs account and shed even exceeded her agreed overdraft limit.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive seen what Monzo has said about it sending Miss H 
messages when she exceeded her limit, asking whether she was having any difficulty and 
that she didnt get in contact until June 2021. I dont know if thats the case, as I know Miss H 
says she got in contact much sooner than this. But in any event, irrespective of whatever 
contact Monzo may or may not have received from Miss H, by April 2019, it ought to have 
been apparent to Monzo that the overdraft had already become demonstrably unsustainable 
for Miss H. And it ought to have taken steps to impose a corrective solution at this point.
So I think that by April 2019 Monzo should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same 
terms and treated Miss H with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and 
charges to the balance. As Monzo didnt react to Miss Hs overdraft usage, and instead 
simply continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. Monzos decision to take corrective action and default Miss Hs account in July 2021
Miss H is unhappy that Monzo decided to begin the process of taking corrective action in 
relation to her overdraft in June 2021. 
Ive thought about what Miss H has said. However, Ive already explained that Monzo ought 
to have realised Miss Hs had become demonstrably unsustainable for her by April 2019 at 
the very latest. And that I dont think it was fair, reasonable or proportionate for Monzo to 
have continued ignoring this indefinitely. 
So while Miss H says that she tried engaging with Monzo before it decided to begin the 
process of taking corrective action, in June 2021, Im, in any event, satisfied that Monzo 
ought to have already begun the process of taking such action more than two years earlier - 
in April 2019. After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the overdraft debt  for example it stops interest and further charges 
being added.
I know that Miss H has said it was unfair for Monzo to default her account in July 2021 as it 
didnt give her enough time to repay the debt or help her. But Ive already explained why 
Monzo needed to do more in April 2019 and thats why Ive upheld that part of Miss Hs 
complaint.
If I were to do what Miss H has asked here and direct Monzo to remove the default 
irrespective of whether an outstanding balance remains on Miss Hs account after all 
adjustments have been made, this would require Monzo to instead record that Miss Hs 
account was up to date and any debt was paid on time, in circumstances where this simply 
didnt happen. And it wouldnt mirror what Im directing Monzo to do in terms of refunding the 
interest, fees and charges added to Miss Hs overdraft balance from April 2019 onwards. I 
think that making such a direction here would arguably be counterproductive and not in          
Miss Hs interests or that of any future lender. Therefore, it simply wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Bearing in mind all of this, and while Ive thought about everything Miss H has said, Im 
satisfied that Monzo should backdate the default it recorded to April 2019  to match when it 
ought to have taken corrective action on Miss Hs account, should an outstanding balance 
remain on Miss Hs account after all adjustments have been made. 
All of this means that Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint. And Monzo should put 
things right for Miss H in the way that Ive set out below.
Fair compensation  what Monzo needs to do put things right for Miss H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from April 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss H is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Monzo to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Hs credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
April 2019. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any and all adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file as 
a result of this overdraft. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman