DRN-4466964
The complaint
Mr T2, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr T1, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly
used funds held in the late Mr T1s account to repay outstanding debts with it.
What happened
The late Mr T1 held a current account, loan account and credit card account with Lloyds.
When he passed away in April 2016, Lloyds used the credit balance in the current account to
reduce outstanding balances on the credit card and loan accounts. The remaining
outstanding balance was written off.
But Mr T2 says that part of the credit balance in the current account included benefit
payments that were due to his sister (Miss T) as his father (the late Mr T1) had been her
carer before he passed away. So, he complained to Lloyds on behalf of the late Mr T1s
estate.
Lloyds said it had no knowledge that the late Mr T1 had been Miss Ts carer or that the
benefits payments paid to his account may have been intended for Miss T. So, it dealt with
the late Mr T1s accounts in the normal way when a customer passes away.
It went on to explain that in 2017 it had been approached by Miss Ts local authority about
the late Mr T1s account and it had provided statements for the account, and it confirmed
that the account balances had been used to repay the outstanding debts. It said that if funds
in the account had belonged to Miss T the local authority would need to claim it back  but it
hadnt received any further contact from them. So, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the response Mr T2 referred the complaint to this service. In order to look at
the complaint we needed Mr T2 to provide us with the required authority to show he had the
power to act on behalf of the late Mr T1s estate. Letters of Administration were provided in
2023. On receipt of this, one of our investigators looked into the complaint.
But he didnt uphold it. He said Lloyds had shown that the current account balance held in
the late Mr T1s sole name had been used to reduce debts held with it which were also in his
sole name. He added that following this the outstanding balance on the debts had been
written off. He noted that there wasnt any evidence that Lloyds had been aware that funds in
the account may have been intended for Miss T as the reference on the benefit payments
didnt identify who the payments were intended for.
He added that Lloyds had said that if the payments hadnt been due to Mr T1 the appropriate
benefits department or local authority would need to reclaim the funds. As this hadnt
happened, he didnt think Lloyds was required to pay any money to the late Mr T1s estate.
Mr T2 asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that the local
authority had failed to follow up on the return of his sisters benefit payments and, on this
basis, it reasonable to ask Lloyds to release funds from the late Mr T1s account. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. And I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 30 October 2023.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I
understand Mr T2 - as the authorised representative of the late Mr T1s estate, will be
disappointed as I can see he has been pursuing this matter for several years. But I can only
uphold this complaint if Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted unfairly, and I dont think it did. Ill
explain why.
Mr T2 has referred to the local authority violating the Mental Capacity Act by failing to follow
up on the return of benefit payments that Miss T was entitled to. However, I cant comment
on such matters. Local Authorities dont fall under the jurisdiction of this service. This
complaint is about how Lloyds dealt with the accounts held by the late Mr T1 with it. So, for
clarity, my decision solely relates to Lloyds actions.
The investigator has already set out the balances on the late Mr T1s accounts when he
passed away and this isnt in dispute. So, I wont repeat all those details here.
Generally speaking, when a person passes away any assets held in their sole name should
be used to repay any outstanding debts in their sole name. If there arent enough assets to
repay any outstanding debts the debts are written off. Im satisfied that this is the process
Lloyds followed. So, I dont find Lloyds acted unfairly when it was notified Mr T1 had passed
away.
But Mr T2 says that benefit payments paid into his fathers account, and which formed part
of the credit balance were intended for the benefit of Miss T  his sister, as his father had
been her carer/guardian. And he has provided some evidence which indicate that Miss T
was entitled to a range of benefit payments.
Ive compared this documentation to the late Mr T1s current account statements. And I can
see that some of the benefit payments received into the account match the reference
numbers on the letters Mr T2 has provided. So, Im persuaded that some of the benefit
payments paid to the account related to Miss T. But I dont find that it automatically follows
that Lloyds has to pay the value of those benefit payments to Mr T1s estate.
The late Mr T1s statements also show other benefits payments being received and these
dont share the same reference as those on the documentation Mr T2 has provided relating
to his sister. Rather, Im persuaded that these appear to relate to payments relating to the
late Mr T1. For example, some benefit payments appear to be state pension and pension
credits payments.
Furthermore, all these payments were paid over a long period of time and there were many
cash withdrawals and other transactions made in between. So, I dont think I can safely say
what  if any, of the balance in the account when Mr T1 passed away belonged to Miss T. Or
that the benefits payments intended for Miss werent used for the benefit of her.
In addition, Lloyds has provided evidence that in 2017 Miss Ts local authority  which at the
time had been appointed by the Court of Protection as Deputy to act on behalf of Miss T,
had been in contact with it and it had provided copies of the late Mr T1s statements and
confirmed that the balance had been used to repay outstanding debts. But Lloyds said that
the local authority didnt respond further.Having thought about this, I think if the local authority  as Miss Ts appointed deputy,
considered that Lloyds was required to pay back any benefit payments made for the benefit
of Miss T then it would have contacted Lloyds further. But I havent seen any evidence
to suggest it did.
I appreciate that Mr T2 has said that the local authority failed to follow this up, but that is not
something I can hold Lloyds responsible for. If Mr T2 feels the local authority hasnt acted
appropriately thats a matter for him to pursue with them. And Lloyds has said that any
benefit payments not rightly due to the late Mr T1 can be reclaimed if the local authority or
Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) confirm what needs to be refunded.
Overall, I think this is a reasonable way to resolve matters. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to
take any further action in respect of this complaint unless it receives contact from the local
authority or appropriate benefit agency.
I note Mr T2 has also mentioned his wages were also paid into Mr T1s account. And hes
provided payslips dated in 2015. But given the activity on Mr T1s account, I cant safely say
that any of the money in Mr T1s account when he passed away belonged to Mr T2.
Responses to my provision decision
Lloyds confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr T2 didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. He provided several documents which he said supported his claim of fraudulent 
misrepresentation by the local authority. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T2 has said the documents he has provided support his claim of fraudulent 
misrepresentation by the local authority. But as I explained in my provisional decision, the 
actions of a local authority is not something I can consider as they dont fall under our 
jurisdiction. 
My remit is limited to looking into whether Lloyds dealt with the accounts held by                     
the late Mr T1 fairly when he passed away and when it was contacted by the local authority. 
And, for the reasons given in my provisional decision (which also form part of this final 
decision), Im persuaded Lloyds acted fairly.
Mr T2 hasnt made any further representations about how Lloyds handled the late Mr T1s 
account when he passed away, so I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision as 
set out above.   
So, I wont be asking Lloyds to take any further action in respect of this complaint unless it 
receives contact from the local authority or appropriate benefit agency.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 Sandra Greene
Ombudsman