DRN-4440027
The complaint
Mr G complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to process the cancellation it had 
accepted of a transfer instruction he had provided.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Scottish Widows needed to do to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr G held pension savings with Scottish Widows. In 2022, with the assistance of his 
financial advisor, Mr G started to consider the consolidation of the pension savings 
he held with Scottish Widows, with other pension savings he held with other firms. 
And in September 2022 he instructed Scottish Widows to transfer his pension 
savings to a pension plan he held with another provider.
When Scottish Widows started to process Mr Gs transfer instruction it identified that 
the value of his pension savings had fallen by more than 10% since his instruction. 
So it sought Mr Gs authority for the transfer to continue. Mr G provided his 
agreement by email. Around a week later Mr G changed his mind. The value of his 
pension savings had continued to fall so he asked Scottish Widows to cancel his 
transfer request. Scottish Widows accepted that instruction and said the transfer 
would be cancelled. Scottish Widows told Mr G that even if it failed to stop the 
transfer in time it would be able to recall the funds and reinstate his pension 
investments.
Scottish Widows failed to cancel the transfer instruction and the funds were sent to 
the new provider. Mr G complained to Scottish Widows about what had happened. It 
apologised for failing to stop the transfer and said it would send him a cheque for 
£200 in respect of the inconvenience hed been caused. But it made no offer to 
attempt to reverse the transfer for Mr G. So Mr G brought his complaint to us.
Before we were able to consider the complaint, Scottish Widows revised its findings 
on Mr Gs complaint. It told us that there was little excuse for not stopping the 
transfer of Mr Gs pension savings and even less excuse for the lack of effort put into 
retrieving the funds that had been erroneously transferred. It said it was willing to 
reverse the transfer and reinvest Mr Gs pension savings into the same funds as they 
were originally held, adding any market movements as applicable. And it said that it 
would pay a further sum of £200 for the stress and inconvenience it had caused to 
Mr G. It noted that he had been patient and polite throughout all their interactions 
despite the level of service he had received.
The basic facts of this complaint are not in dispute. Mr G provided Scottish Widows 
with a clear instruction for the cancellation of his transfer. Scottish Widows accepted 
that instruction and told Mr G that it would be implemented. And it gave him some 
further reassurance that, should anything go wrong with the cancellation, it could 
request the return of the funds and it would reinvest them as if nothing had 
happened.
So it is disappointing to see that the transfer of Mr Gs pension savings did take 
place. And it is even more disappointing that it took until Mr G referred his complaint 
to us, for Scottish Widows to acknowledge that it had failed to put things right 
following that erroneous transfer, in the way that it had assured Mr G it would. The 
acknowledgement of the further error was only made some seven months after the 
transfer took place.
Scottish Widows has agreed to now perform the actions that it said it should have at 
the outset  recalling the transferred monies and reinvesting them on the same basis 
(and at the same price) that applied when the investments were first sold to facilitate 
the transfer. Like our investigator I think that is a fair offer, and would undoubtedly 
place Mr G back into the position he would have been in October 2022 when the 
transfer should have been cancelled.
 
But I have thought carefully about what Mr G has said in relation to that offer of 
compensation, and why he says it isnt appropriate for his current circumstances. He 
has said that the events of the past year mean he would have concerns about the 
administrative capacity of Scottish Widows to undertake the corrective actions. And 
he has said that it was always his ultimate intention for his pension savings to be 
consolidated with the new provider, and the cancellation instruction he gave on the 
transfer was only ever intended to be a delay to the transfer, rather than indicating he 
would leave his pension savings with Scottish Widows indefinitely.
Mr G says that his current pension investments with the new provider havent 
performed as well as those he previously held with Scottish Widows before the 
transfer. To some degree Im not persuaded that forms a reasonable basis for 
compensation to be paid. Mr G had a relatively free choice of investments when his 
pension savings were transferred. And although I accept he couldnt have placed 
them in the identical investment (since that was bespoke to Scottish Widows) he 
could have used a similar investment that might have shown similar investment 
performance. So I do think a comparison of the different investments is being made 
with a degree of hindsight.
And there is no clear picture of when Mr G would have decided his pension savings 
had recovered sufficient value for him to reinstate the transfer that was cancelled. It 
is impossible to accurately predict the movements of investments, and as Mr G sadly 
experienced many factors, including government policy, will influence their values. So 
again, any date that might be used for when the transfer would have been reinstated 
must be seen as being chosen with the benefit of hindsight.
But Scottish Widows has made an offer to Mr G that would place him back into the 
position he might have been had the transfer been correctly cancelled and his 
monies left with the firm. And that would mean Mr Gs pension savings would be 
valued today as if no transfer had ever happened. But to benefit from that offer Mr G 
would need to agree to his pension savings being returned to Scottish Widows. As 
I will go on to explain, that doesnt seem to be a necessary condition to place on the 
redress.
Mr G wishes his pension savings to remain with the new provider. If he accepted the 
compensation proposal his pension savings would be returned to Scottish Widows. 
But he could then just as easily immediately instruct another transfer to move the 
pension savings, including any compensation Scottish Widows has paid, back to the new provider. That would simply incur costs for both Scottish Widows and the new 
provider in moving funds back and forwards between the two firms. And whilst 
appreciating that there is a small risk whilst his pension savings are out of the market 
during the transfer, there would be little downside for Mr G apart from further 
administrative inconvenience.
So I currently think a more pragmatic solution would be for Scottish Widows to pay 
compensation directly into Mr Gs new pension plan equivalent to any difference in 
the value of the transferred funds (after taking account of any investment returns or 
losses since the date of the transfer) and what they would have been worth if they 
had remained with Scottish Widows. That will mean that the same amount of 
compensation would be paid to Mr G as was offered by Scottish Widows, but without 
the administrative complexity of needing to recall the transfer from the new provider, 
and for Mr G to then give a new transfer instruction.
Our investigator explained that he thought a total payment of £600 would be 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience that was caused to Mr G. I too have 
considered what would be a reasonable sum of compensation in that regard and 
share the conclusions reached by the investigator.
 
So in summary I currently think that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld and that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Scottish Widows to put things right in the manner 
I set out below. I think this method of redress will be equivalent in cost to the offer 
Scottish Widows has already made, but allow Mr G to maintain his pension 
investments with the new provider as he wishes to do.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Scottish Widows said that it accepted all my provisional findings and 
the way Id suggested things should be put right for Mr G. It also apologised that, due to an 
administrative error, it had failed to send the £200 compensation it had originally offered to 
Mr G.
Mr G also agreed with most of my provisional findings. But he proposed an alternative date 
be used for assessing whether he had lost out as a result of the transfer not being cancelled. 
Whilst accepting that any date chosen would be arbitrary in nature, Mr G thought it would be 
fairer to use the date he referred his complaint to us instead of the date I had proposed  the 
date of this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mr G and by Scottish Widows. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I set out earlier, both parties are in broad agreement about what needs to be done in 
order to put things right for Mr G. The only matter left outstanding for me to decide here is 
the date that should be used when calculating any compensation due to Mr G.
The offer that Scottish Widows made to Mr G was reliant on him moving his pension savings 
back to the firm. It is only through this final decision that Mr G becomes entitled to receive 
compensation whilst leaving his pension savings with his new provider. So it seems to me 
that it is only on the issue of this final decision that any compensation that is due can 
reasonably be assessed. And, given that Mr G would now be able to compare any 
compensation that would be due using a calculation date of when his complaint was referred 
to us, there is a risk that he might be able to choose a more beneficial calculation point using 
an alternative date.
So although I understand what Mr G has said about the arbitrary nature of any date that is 
chosen, I think it fairer to both parties that I retain the proposals I set out in my provisional 
decision. I repeat that method of calculating the compensation below for clarity.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr G Scottish Widows should;
Determine, as at the date of this final decision, the notional value of Mr Gs pension 
savings had they not been transferred and remained invested in the same way as 
they were before the transfer.
With the assistance of Mr Gs new pension provider, determine, as at the date of this 
final decision, the actual value of Mr Gs transferred pension savings including any 
investment gains or losses achieved since the transfer.
If the actual value is less than the notional value, Mr G has lost out and Scottish 
Widows should pay him compensation equal to the difference.
Scottish Widows should pay into Mr G's new pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Scottish Widows is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. I think it reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal the current basic 
rate of tax. However, as Mr G would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.The compensation should be paid to Mr G within 28 days of Scottish Widows being notified 
of his acceptance of any final decision along these lines. Should the compensation not have 
been paid by that date Scottish Widows should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
annum to the compensation amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement. HM Revenue & Customs will require Scottish Widows to take off tax from this 
interest. Scottish Widows must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
Additionally, and regardless of whether Mr G has suffered a loss as calculated above, 
Scottish Widows should pay compensation of £600 to Mr G for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman