DRN-3158207
The complaint
Miss H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough when 
she transferred funds to a fraudster and that it wont refund the payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise whats happened and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
- Miss H told us she was coerced into transferring over £10,000 in August 2019 to an 
individual who was later found to be a fraudster.  
- She reported the payment as a scam in November 2019 but NatWest was unable to 
recover the funds. 
- Miss H thinks NatWest shouldve done more to protect her. She said she doesnt 
usually transfer funds from her account and that NatWest shouldve done a security 
check to make sure it was her making the payment. She also said she felt that 
NatWest shouldve found it unusual that she called to make sure the payment would 
go through. 
- Our investigator didnt consider this case as one that comes under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) as he concluded it was a civil matter. He 
noted that Miss H was able to get a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against the 
individual. He also didnt think, given the sequence of events, the ultimate outcome 
wouldve been different if NatWest had asked Miss H questions about the payment. 
- Miss H disagreed. She also told us the CCJ had been dismissed so she has no 
alternative means of recovering the money. 
- So the case has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied this matter was a private civil dispute. Miss H had known the individual 
for a few months and had met them several times before being persuaded to send 
money that was intended to purchase a car. So, I conclude that it doesnt fall under 
the CRM code which excludes private civil disputes.
While Im extremely sorry to hear Miss H has lost out on such a significant sum of 
money, I have to think about NatWests actions; what it could reasonably have been 
expected to do and whether any intervention wouldve been likely to make a 
difference. Miss H has expressed that she was bullied into making the payment and 
suggested that the individual was in close proximity at the time. She thinks NatWest 
shouldve called about the payment. But, given that she didnt feel she was in a 
position to decline to transfer the money, I think its likely she wouldve given 
assurance that the transfer could be completed. So I dont think a call from NatWest 
wouldve made a difference. I also dont think the call to NatWest to ensure the 
payment would go through wouldve alerted them to the fact there was an issue  
instead, it wouldve likely appeared to NatWest that Miss H was keen for the 
transaction to proceed. 
NatWest wasnt told about an issue with the payment for several months, so I dont 
think it unreasonable that it didnt recognise there was a problem. And I dont think 
there was more it couldve reasonably done to try to recover the funds. 
While it appears that Miss H cant now recover the money from the CCJ, I dont 
expect NatWest to take any further action. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman