DRN-3357666
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to carry out sufficient 
due diligence checks before it transferred his pension to his small self-administered scheme 
(SSAS). Which Mr H says caused him a subsequent loss when the pension fund was then 
invested into unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
What happened
Mr H had a personal pension with Prudential which hed taken out in 1988. He explains that 
hed stopped making any contributions into his pension around 2009. 
On 14 February 2013 The Pensions Regulator (TPR) released guidance for pension 
providers to help prevent their members becoming victims of pension liberation fraud (being 
convinced to transfer a pension to obtain an unauthorised payment, usually before age 55). 
Ill refer to this as the Scorpion Guidance. This guidance included an Action Pack for 
businesses. Which provided: example scenarios, warning signs, information on what 
businesses could do to reduce the risks, a checklist to help spot pension liberation, and help 
in educating customers. The Scorpion guidance also included a two page Scorpion insert 
that had to be sent to members along with transfer packs, as well as a more detailed 
10-page booklet to send to customers that wanted more information.
In March 2014 Prudential received a fax from First Review Pension Services (FRPS) which 
included a letter of authority, signed by Mr H. FRPS were requesting transfer values and 
transfer discharge documentation (transfer pack). 
Prudential say that it sent a transfer pack to FRPS. And that its internal process at the time 
was for the transfer pack to include the Scorpion insert. 
In July 2014 TPR updated the Scorpion guidance. It released new versions of the Action 
Pack, insert and information booklet. This guidance provided additional things for businesses 
to be aware of and actions to consider.
In August 2014 Prudential received further contact from a regulated independent financial 
adviser (Firm A). This was a Transfer of Service / Letter of Authority that was signed by 
Mr H. It instructed Prudential that Firm A were assuming responsibility for future servicing on 
Mr Hs Prudential pension. And asked for an up to date summary and valuation.
Prudential provided a standard response to Firm A which included policy details and the 
current valuation. No transfer discharge documents were sent as Firm A had not requested 
transfer information. So no Scorpion insert was sent.
On 6 November 2014 a private limited company was incorporated with Mr H as the sole 
director. And on 28 November 2014 Mr H completed an application to Rowanmoor Group plc 
to open a SSAS for the limited company that Mr H was the director of. The application 
appointed Rowanmoor Group as trustees to the SSAS.
The application form included the direction to Rowanmoor Group to request the transfer of 
Mr Hs Prudential pension to the SSAS. 
Prudential received a request to transfer Mr Hs pension through the Origo OPTIONS 
platform  an electronic transfer system  on 16 December 2014. Prudential transferred 
Mr Hs personal pension to the SSAS with Rowanmoor Group. And wrote to the servicing 
agent, Firm A, on 30 December 2014 to confirm that the transfer had completed.
Mr H complained, via a complaint management company, that Prudential failed to follow 
industry guidance designed to protect consumers from liberation scams. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. But was unable to resolve the dispute. 
Prudential didnt agree with our investigators findings. So this case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I considered the evidence and issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think that 
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
My provisional decision
I explained that I would be considering the rules in place at the time in deciding whether 
Prudential had done anything wrong. And explained that the regulatory rules in place under 
COBS and PRIN meant that Prudential had a responsibility to follow relevant industry 
guidance.
I considered the guidance that had been issued by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) at the 
relevant times. 
I explained why I thought that Prudential failed to follow TPR guidance issued under the 
Scorpion campaign in February 2013. It sent the Scorpion insert to FRPS in response to the 
request for transfer information in March 2013. Which I didnt think met the requirement to 
send the information to Mr H. The purpose of the Scorpion guidance was to inform Mr H 
about the risks of becoming a victim of pension liberation fraud. And sending it to a third 
party, even if authorised by Mr H to act on his behalf, didnt ensure that Mr H was personally 
informed of the risks.
In this case though, I didnt think that the failure to send the Scorpion insert adversely 
affected Mr H. The evidence didnt suggest that the pension transfer went ahead on the back 
of that request. I also explained that the insert in use at that time was very focussed on 
warning against the risk of becoming a victim of a pension liberation fraud. Mr H wasnt at 
risk of pension liberation, and the only warning sign on the insert of relevance to Mr H was 
being cold-called. Which I didnt think, by itself, would have caused Mr H to cancel his 
transfer. 
Mr Hs transfer went ahead in December 2014 by which time TPRs Scorpion guidance had 
been updated. I considered the way that Prudential handled the actual request for the 
transfer. And didnt identify anything that Prudential did wrong. I didnt think that the 
circumstances that Prudential were presented with would have given them enough reason to 
be suspicious of the transfer request. So I explained why I thought it was reasonable that it 
didnt go on to consider the checklist in the Action Pack further.
The response to my Provisional Decision
Mr Hs CMC responded in detail, outlining why it disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive 
reviewed and considered its entire response, but for ease of reading will summarise the 
issues raised as follows:It said that Prudential carried out no due diligence checks at all;
It considered that there were a number of warning signs present referenced in the 
checklists in the 2013 and 2014 Scorpion guidance;
Prudential made no contact with Mr H during the transfer process.
It explained that Prudential ought to have verified Mr Hs statutory right to transfer. So 
should have contacted Mr H to establish his employment status.
Prudential offered no further evidence or comment following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the impact that these events had on Mr H and therefore his disappointment with 
my provisional decision. But having considered the evidence in this case again, I havent 
changed my mind. Whilst Mr H has provided further comments about the transfer, there is no 
new evidence to consider. So much of my explanation remains the same as explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Im aware that Mr Hs CMC has put forward its rationale for what it says ought to have 
happened. And why Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. In explaining my decision though, I 
havent addressed every argument raised by both sides. My role is to provide an informal 
and independent outcome that is fair and reasonable. In explaining my decision Ill explain 
my rationale for it, based on the evidence presented. 
In assessing whether or not Prudential have done anything wrong, Ive considered the rules 
in place at the time. The FSA rules didnt place specific requirements on firms regarding their 
responsibilities for pension transfers such as this. Prudential werent responsible in this set 
of circumstances for assessing the suitability of Mr Hs receiving scheme or the intended 
investments in that receiving scheme. 
But the FSA (now FCA) handbook set out general principles of business (PRIN) as well as 
rules in its conduct of business sourcebook (COBS). The principles (in PRIN) that were most 
applicable to this case were:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
And within the COBS rules, COBS 2.1.1R placed an obligation on businesses to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of its client. 
Collectively these regulatory obligations in PRIN and COBS meant that Prudential had to 
have regard to industry guidance and best practice where it directly related to the best 
interests and fair treatment of its customers. Which meant that it needed to consider and 
implement the recommendations issued in TPRs Scorpion guidance, which was approved 
by its regulator, the FSA.
TPR guidance from February 2013The initial request for transfer information from FRPS came at a time when the industry was 
aware of the risk of customers being targeted by scams. And Prudential should have been 
following the February 2013 Scorpion guidance.
Prudential sent the transfer pack to FRPS and say that it included the Scorpion insert. I dont 
think that was an appropriate approach for Prudential to take. FRPS wasnt a regulated 
advisor. So whilst Mr H had authorised Prudential to respond to FRPS in his signed letter of 
authority, I think that Prudential should have sent the Scorpion insert to Mr H directly. The 
Scorpion insert, and the industry campaign existed to try to prevent consumers from falling 
prey to unscrupulous introducers or advisors. Only sending the warning insert to the 
unregulated third party failed to ensure that Mr H was fairly informed about the risks that 
Prudential had a responsibility to highlight.
Having recognised what I think was a failing of Prudential, I cant say that Mr H transferred 
his pension off the back of this transfer request though. Mr H hasnt been very specific about 
the exact advisory path that led to his transfer. But Mr H hadnt set up his SSAS at that 
stage, so I dont think that whatever was behind this request for a transfer pack was followed 
up on. Although It does mean that Mr H was denied a copy of the Scorpion insert at this 
point. 
The version of the Scorpion insert available at that time was very much focussed on the risk 
of being victim of a pension liberation scam. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr H was 
given any incentives or promises to access his benefits by transferring. Had he been 
concerned by what he read in the insert, it listed steps to avoid becoming a victim. Which 
included speaking to an adviser that isnt associated with the advice. And the evidence 
suggests that Mr H appointed a regulated financial adviser after this anyway.
So I dont think that Prudentials failure to send him the Scorpion insert had any effect on 
what happened at that time. No transfer request was received off the back of that transfer 
pack, so I dont think Prudential needed to have made any other form of contact with Mr H at 
that stage. 
TPR guidance from July 2014
TPR updated the Scorpion insert and Action Pack in July 2014. Which is the Action Pack 
that Prudential should have had in mind regarding Mr Hs transfer request in 
December 2014. That action pack highlighted things to look out for that may have been 
present in liberation or other scams, including:
cold calling
transfers of money or investments overseas
accessing the pension before 55
encouragement to speed up a transfer
The action pack asked transferring schemes to look for these sorts of issues. And where any 
of these features applied said that transferring schemes could use a checklist to find out 
more about the receiving scheme and how the consumer came to make the request. The 
guidance allowed judgement to be applied in deciding whether it was necessary to use the 
checklist. It didnt require Prudential to conduct the same level of checks for every transfer 
request. I need to decide whether the information Prudential had ought to have given them 
sufficient reason to go on to consider the checklist questions further.
The next contact that Prudential received on Mr Hs behalf was from Firm A. This was a 
regulated financial advisor with Mr Hs signed letter of authority. This contact was a transfer of service request. It wasnt a request for transfer information. The guidance that was in 
place at that time didnt require Prudential to make any direct contact with Mr H in this 
circumstance. Nothing in this interaction would have been a trigger in TPRs guidance. The 
significance to this complaint though, is that from this point Prudential were entitled to 
consider that Mr H had access to regulated financial advice.
It appears that there followed the involvement of a different third party (Firm B) in advising 
Mr H. I explained in my provisional decision that Id seen no documentary evidence from 
Mr H of what that advice was or at what time it was provided. And the response to my 
provisional decision provided no further information on that point.
Prudential provided no evidence relating to correspondence or knowledge of Firm B. And I 
think, on balance, that Prudential received no correspondence from firm B. When the 
transfer went ahead in December 2014, it doesnt seem to have followed a new request for a 
transfer pack. Prudential explain that the first contact it had about the transfer was the 
request through the Origo Options system. I dont think that Prudential would have been 
aware of any involvement of Firm B in any decision to transfer Mr Hs pension.
Prudential wouldnt have been aware whether or not Mr H had been cold called in this case. 
But would have been aware that he had a regulated IFA as a recently appointed servicing 
agent. So could reasonably have concluded that Mr H had access to regulated financial 
advice. 
The transfer request itself was made through the electronic transfer system Origo Options. 
Prudential have explained that receiving the transfer in that way provided reassurance that 
there wasnt anything untoward. Which I dont think was unreasonable. The system was in 
place to enable transfers between pension providers to be quicker and more efficient. And 
eliminate the need for written forms. 
The request came from Rowanmoor Group who were an established and respected provider 
of SSASs. They werent regulated by the FCA but didnt need to be to provide this type of 
occupational pension. Prudential have said that it understood Rowanmoor Trustees Limited 
acted as professional trustees which the application form for Mr Hs SSAS corroborates. And 
I agree that the presence of independent professional trustees would have provided 
Prudential with an additional degree of confidence.
Prudential have shown that it confirmed that Mr Hs SSAS was an HMRC approved UK 
based pension scheme. So wasnt obviously an overseas transfer. Prudential havent 
indicated that it carried out any other due diligence checks. Ive considered whether 
additional checks would have alerted Prudential to the risk to Mr H.
Checks with Companies House would have shown Prudential that Mr H was named as the 
sole director and sole shareholder of the company that the SSAS was set up for. There were 
no accounts that would have indicated the trading status of the company at that stage. It 
wasnt until 2016 that accounts for a dormant company were updated to the register. From 
Prudentials point of view, the company and therefore the SSAS would most likely have 
looked legitimate.
And the process through Origo Options was designed to be quick. Whilst Prudential had to 
consider the Scorpion guidance in its due diligence, it was also obliged to carry out the 
transfer where legislative requirements were met. Which they were here. Taken as a whole, I dont think this would have appeared to be a transfer that carried a 
significant risk of fraud. The combination of an application through Origo Options from a 
reputable provider would have made the request seem legitimate from Prudentials 
perspective. The presence of a regulated financial adviser and professional trustees 
appointed to the receiving scheme would have been reassuring. 
The guidance in the Action Pack was structured in such a way, that Prudential were only 
required to consider the questions in the checklist if any of the things to watch out for were 
present. And Ive seen no evidence that makes me think Prudential would have suspected 
any of these warning signs were present. So it isnt reasonable to conclude that Prudential 
had to go on to consider the checklist in the Scorpion Action Pack in this case.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Hs CMC referred to the checklist information in 
some detail. And highlighted those parts of the checklist that may have alerted Prudential to 
the risks associated with Mr Hs requested transfer. But, Ive explained why Prudential 
wouldnt have had to go on to consider the checklist in this case. It wouldnt have had to 
contact Mr H to obtain any further information to comply with the guidance.
Mr Hs CMC has suggested that Prudential may not have done enough to satisfy itself that 
Mr H had a statutory right to transfer his pension to the SSAS. The relevant law is in sections 
94 and 95 of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993. I wont list the sections in full as they can be 
found elsewhere. The impact on this transfer to an occupational pension scheme is that 
Mr H had to be an earner, to have the right to transfer. So Mr H had to be in paid 
employment.
The evidence presented so far doesnt show that Prudential had confirmation of Mr Hs 
employment status. But if it sought this information from Mr H, it would have ascertained that 
he was employed. So was entitled to request the transfer. 
I dont agree with Mr Hs CMCs interpretation that in contacting Mr H to establish if he was 
employed, it would have revealed any warning signs of the presence of a pension scam. A 
request for Mr H to provide a pay slip would have satisfied Prudential that Mr H was 
employed. I dont think that Prudential had to phone Mr H to answer this question. The 
extent of its enquiry, would reasonably be limited to establishing that Mr H was employed. 
Prudential may have failed to satisfy itself fully that Mr H had a statutory right to transfer. 
Nonetheless, he did have. And any failing in checking didnt cause the subsequent loss that 
Mr H suffered after transferring.
The updated guidance in 2014 created a new Scorpion insert that was worded to warn of 
scams more generally than the 2013 version. TPR guidance in the Action Pack said, we're 
asking all trustees to include our pension scams scorpion insert in their annual benefit 
statements and when issuing transfer packs to members. But Prudential werent asked to 
provide a transfer pack for the December transfer. 
The guidance wasnt clear about whether Prudential needed to send the insert in response 
to the Origo transfer request. No documentary correspondence was necessary. It was a 
feature of this type of transfer. So I cant reasonably say that Prudential were at fault in not 
sending the insert in this case. Its unfortunate that Mr H didnt receive the July 2014 insert. 
But I dont think that was Prudentials fault, so I wont consider whether or not it would have 
mattered to any decision Mr H wouldve made about his pension transfer.I explained previously that I think Mr H ought to have had the earlier Scorpion insert sent to 
him in March 2014. And Ive considered whether Mr H may have acted differently with the 
transfer in December if hed had that copy of the Scorpion insert then. The only warning sign 
that may have seemed relevant to Mr H may have been that he was approached out of the 
blue. But I dont think that an insert that highlighted cold-calling alone would realistically 
have prevented this transfer around nine months later. As Ive said, the warnings in that first 
Scorpion insert were targeted at the risks of pension liberation. Which werent likely to have 
concerned Mr H as he was not at risk of, and didnt become victim of, that type of scam. 
For the above reasons, I dont think that Prudential are responsible for the losses that Mr H 
suffered from this pension transfer. So wont be asking it to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman