DRN-2334826
The complaint
P is a limited company and registered society. It complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading 
as Virgin Money) lost an updated mandate for its bank account.
P is represented in bringing this complaint by its treasurer, who Ill refer to as Mr F.
What happened
P attempted to update the signatories to its bank account with Clydesdale in March 2019. 
But  unbeknownst to P  those changes werent successful. 
This only came to light in April 2020, when P attempted to cash a cheque in branch and the 
cashier identified that one of the signatories wasnt valid. Clydesdale cashed the cheque 
anyway. 
Mr F complained. He thought the change in mandate had been completed, as Clydesdale 
had sent an acknowledgement to P in March 2019. He was also concerned that the bank 
had proceeded to cash the cheque while saying that the signatory wasnt authorised. And he 
was worried that the security of his personal data, and those of the other signatories, had 
been compromised by the loss of the mandate.
Clydesdale accepted that things had gone wrong and apologised. In summary, it said:
The problems with the mandate shouldve been picked up at the time. On reviewing 
things, it couldnt now locate the mandate as it hadnt been properly scanned and 
had been sent to storage without being logged correctly. So it needed P to complete 
a new one.
The branch cashed the cheque in April 2020 as one of the signatories was verified 
and the member of Ps staff was known to them. But this was still against procedure, 
and had been logged as a breach. Cheques deposited previously had gone through 
its automatic clearing system.
It had reported the matter to its Data Protection Officer, but in these circumstances it 
doesnt notify individuals who might be affected.
Clydesdale offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused. But Mr F 
remained unhappy, and referred the complaint to us. He was particularly concerned that 
Clydesdale hadnt addressed his concerns about the loss of personal data  and thought 
that the bank ought to have been in touch with both P and the individuals concerned about 
the breaches. He also thought Clydesdale should pay a greater level of compensation to P in 
recognition of the time spent on the matter, and the distress caused to the individuals 
involved.
One of our investigators looked into Ps complaint, but she thought that Clydesdale had 
already taken appropriate steps to put things right. She felt the £200 it had already offered 
was fair compensation for the inconvenience P had been put to, while pointing out that we 
couldnt make an award for any personal distress that had been caused.
As Mr F didnt accept our investigators view, Ps complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale accepts that it made errors in how it handled Ps request to update the account 
mandate last year. This led P to legitimately believe that the signatories to its account had 
been updated, when they hadnt. Its not clear exactly what happened to the original 
mandate, because Clydesdale cant now locate it. 
The consequence of all this is that P has been required to complete a new mandate. It has 
also suffered some avoidable inconvenience in dealing with this matter, and its right that P 
is compensated for this. Given that completing a new mandate is a fairly straightforward 
administrative matter, and given that P has suffered no direct loss from the errors, I think the 
£200 that Clydesdale has already offered is fair compensation.
I appreciate that the majority of Mr Fs concerns relate not to the need to complete a further 
mandate, but rather the actions that Clydesdale has taken (or failed to take) from a security 
and data protection perspective. Ive taken all of these concerns into account but theyve not 
led me to recommend a higher award, and will explain why.
Firstly, the failure to update the mandate back in 2019 meant that cheques issued since then 
have been signed by individuals not authorised to act on the account. But, until the issue 
was discovered in April 2020, those cheques have been cleared or cashed without question. 
Thats not caused P any financial losses  in that the cheques were being issued by people 
that P wanted to act on its behalf. And as its instructions were being carried out, this wasnt 
causing P any trouble either  as it didnt know that anything was wrong. I can see how the 
fact this wasnt picked up earlier, and that the cheques were processed when they ought not 
to have been, wouldve given Mr F and other members of Ps staff cause for concern about 
the banks processes when the issue came to light, but as there has been no loss or 
inconvenience, I do not believe further compensation should be paid.
When the issue was discovered, I understand that the branch decided to cash the cheque 
despite the discrepancy with the signatories against its own policy. Again, I can see how that 
might be cause for concern. At the same time, though, I can appreciate that the bank was 
trying to help P in the specific circumstances. One of the signatures was correct, the 
member of Ps staff was known to the bank and  as this was ongoing during the height of 
the pandemic-related restrictions  the banks staff were keen to avoid putting P to a further 
trip. Ultimately, again, its not caused P any financial loss or additional trouble as the 
transaction was legitimate. 
Mr F is also concerned that, in losing the mandate, Clydesdale has compromised the 
security of his and the other signatories personal data. I can appreciate that concern. 
However, from what the bank has said, in line with its usual processes the mandate would 
have been sent to its secure storage facility. It just cant locate it because it failed to log it 
correctly. Theres no way of evidencing that, so its hard to give Mr F complete comfort in this 
regard, but it does seem most likely, on the limited evidence, to be whats happened. And theres nothing to suggest that either Ps or the signatories data has fallen into the hands of 
a third party. So, again, I cant see that its caused P any financial losses or other trouble. 
Moreover, while I can fully appreciate that these matters have been worrying for Mr F (and, I 
expect, other members of Ps staff), we cant make an award for any distress theyve 
suffered. The complainant here is P. Its a separate legal entity to its staff, so I can only 
direct compensation for any impact that the banks errors have had towards P  and, as its 
not an individual, P cant suffer distress or upset.
Taking all of this into account, I think the £200 that Clydesdale has already offered is fair 
compensation for the inconvenience P was caused. 
Clydesdale has explained how the completion of a new mandate can be done through the 
post and provided envelopes and stamps to help. Its also apologised for its errors and given 
feedback to its staff. While I understand Mr F feels that some questions remain unanswered, 
I think it has provided P with a reasonable explanation of what happened and why. So Im 
not requiring it to do anything other than pay the £200 its already offered to P.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has already made an offer to pay P 
compensation of £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) must pay P £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman