DRN-3125417
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K has complained about the refund it received from Howden 
Insurance Brokers Limited after it cancelled its care home insurance policy. 
Mr P, a director of K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf. 
What happened
K bought a care home insurance policy through Howden in March 2021. The policy was 
made up of a number of different sections of cover with a separate premium for each. K 
cancelled this policy on 29 April 2021.
K was unhappy with the time it took Howden to process the refund as it needed the money 
to buy a different policy. Howden said they werent able to return the money to K until the 
insurer had returned the premium. They said they had refunded the money as quickly as 
possible and had done so within a month of the cancellation. 
K brought its complaint to our service as it thought Howden should have refunded the money 
within 14 days. K was also unhappy with the amount it had received back wasnt calculated 
on a pro rata basis for the time on risk.
Howden said that the legal expenses section of policy hadnt been refunded as that part of 
the policy was non-refundable. However, the rest of the policy, including their commission 
had been refunded on a pro rata basis. 
Our investigator looked into Ks complaint and recommended it be partly upheld. He didnt 
think Howden had caused any delays in refunding the premium. However, he didnt think 
that it was fair and reasonable for Howden to claw back commission following the 
cancellation when they hadnt made it clear how much that would be.
K accepted our investigators findings, but Howden didnt agree. They said their commercial 
client agreement makes it clear that they will retain commission if the policy is cancelled and 
they didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to refund the commission given the work that 
had gone into arranging the policy. Howden said they had complied with the requirements of 
the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and there is no requirement for 
them to disclose the level of commission unless requested. Howden said theyd treated K 
fairly and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays in processing the refund
There isnt anything in Howdens commercial client agreement which sets out how long they 
will take to process a refund. So Ive looked at what happened to decide if Howden caused 
any delays in processing the refund. 
Ks policy was cancelled on 29 April 2021 and I can see from Howdens system notes that 
they notified the insurer of the cancellation on the same day. I can see Howden told K that 
they wouldnt be able to process the refund as quickly as it would like, and they also 
contacted the insurer around a week after the cancellation to find out when the refund could 
be expected. The screenshots from Howden show that they started to process the refund on 
the same day they received the money back from the insurer and the money was repaid to K 
the following day. 
Im therefore satisfied that Howden didnt cause any delays in processing Ks refund and that 
they did everything they could to provide the refund as quickly as possible.  
The refund amount
As this decision is against Howden, I can only consider what Howden (and not any other 
business) might or might not have done wrong. I can therefore only comment on the charges 
applied by Howden. If K is unhappy about not receiving a refund on the legal expenses 
section of the policy it would need to raise that separately. 
Ive seen Howdens commercial client agreement, which says:
Our remuneration is fully earned upon the inception of the insurance contract 
and, in the event that the insurance is cancelled or is terminated after inception 
for whatever reason, or if our appointment is terminated for any reason, we 
reserve the right to retain/recover the remuneration we have earned.
While I understand why Howden charge commission when arranging a policy, in general, I 
only think its fair and reasonable for a broker to keep that commission upon cancellation 
when theyve made it clear to the policyholder how much commission would be charged in 
the event the policy is cancelled. Thats because Howden has to ensure it treats its 
customers fairly and provides information thats clear, fair and not misleading. While the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) doesnt require a broker to disclose the 
amount of commission to a commercial customer unless its asked, I also have to think about 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
broker to claw back that commission on cancellation of the policy if they didnt let the 
policyholder know what that cost would be at the point the policy was sold. 
Howdens commercial client agreement doesnt set out how much commission will be 
retained, and I havent seen anything else to indicate that Howden let K know how much 
commission it would retain if the policy was cancelled. I appreciate that Howden thinks the 
commercial client agreement makes it clear that commission will be retained but I dont think 
the agreement is clear enough for K to have known the amount that would be retained if the 
policy was cancelled. 
As K wasnt aware of the amount of commission that would be retained when entering into 
the contract with Howden, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Howden to have only 
refunded this on a pro rata basis upon cancellation. To put things right, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for Howden to refund the rest of the commission they retained. Due 
to the time K has been without money it should have had, Howden should add interest to this 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date the rest of the premium was refunded 
until the date it makes payment.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Howden Insurance Brokers 
Limited to refund the rest of the commission they retained to K. They should add interest on 
this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date the rest of the premium was 
refunded until the date it makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman