DRN-3097613
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse several transactions that she 
says she didnt authorise.
Whats happened?
Miss K says she has been the victim of fraud. Her mobile phone was stolen from a nightclub 
very early in the morning on 11 November 2018, and she reported the theft to her network 
provider later that morning. In the evening on 12 November 2018, she says she became 
aware of the following unauthorised transactions. All of the transactions were carried out 
using her mobile phone, and they all utilised the overdraft facility on her Santander account. 
Date of transaction Time of transaction Amount Type of transaction
11 November 2018 unknown £30.01 Contactless card 
payment via a mobile 
application
11 November 2018 05:46 £500.00 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
11 November 2018 08:19 £700.00 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
11 November 2018 08:25 £0.01 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
11 November 2018 10:13 £0.01 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
12 November 2018 00:03 £1.00 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
12 November 2018 00:04 £30.00 Faster payment via 
mobile banking
Miss K raised a fraud claim with Santander. Shes since told the bank that shes unhappy 
with how she was left without access to money for around two weeks whilst she was waiting 
for a replacement debit card that she could use. 
Santander investigated Miss Ks claim but decided not to reimburse the disputed 
transactions. It concluded that she had authorised the transactions because:
The transactions were made using her genuine mobile device and online banking, 
and one was authorised with a one-time passcode.
Theres no evidence that the passcode to her mobile device was compromised.
Santander did pay Miss K £125 by way of compensation for the issues she experienced 
when she ordered a replacement debit card though.
Miss K wasnt happy with Santanders decision, so she asked this Service to investigate. 
She told us that:
Her mobile phone disappeared, and she never found it again. She doesnt know who 
took it, but she doesnt believe they wouldve known her.
She thinks that a four-digit security number was required to unlock her mobile phone 
and access her online banking at the time. These numbers were not stored 
anywhere, and she didnt give them out to anyone.
Shes received a text message in the past when shes forgotten her online banking 
login details. The fraudster could have received a text message from Santander 
which allowed them to access her online banking without knowing her four-digit 
security number. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint because she felt unable to conclude that 
shed been the victim of fraud. Miss K wasnt happy with the outcome our investigator 
reached, so she asked for an ombudsmans final decision. The complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Broadly speaking, Miss K is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by 
making them herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So, the key question here is whether Santander 
has acted fairly in concluding that Miss K authorised the disputed payments.
For a payment to be authorised, Santander must show that it was authenticated correctly, 
and Miss K must have consented to it. 
Santander has provided technical reports which show that the faster payments made via 
mobile banking were made after Miss Ks online banking was securely accessed  at least 
once using Miss Ks thumb print. The electronic records also show that the contactless card 
payment via a mobile application was authenticated with her debit card number. So, Im 
satisfied that the payments were authenticated correctly, and Ive moved on to think about 
whether Miss K consented to the payments or to someone else making the payments on her 
behalf. I think its likely that she did, and Ill explain why below.Miss K has consistently said that: 
She lost her mobile phone very early in the morning on 11 November 2018 and didnt 
discover the disputed transactions until the evening of the following day. She 
believes that a stranger stole her phone.
She did not keep a record of the security passwords for her mobile phone or online 
banking anywhere, and she didnt share them with anyone.
Santanders technical reports show that the faster payments were made via mobile banking 
after her online banking was securely accessed  at least once using Miss Ks thumb print. 
So, in order to make the faster payments, a fraudster would need to know the passwords to 
her mobile phone and quite possibly her online banking too, as well as have access to her 
thumb print. And, to make the contactless card payment, a fraudster would need to know the 
password to Miss Ks mobile phone. Given what Miss K has told us about who may have 
stolen her phone and how she stored her passwords, Im not persuaded that a fraudster 
couldve carried out the disputed transactions. There is no plausible explanation for how 
someone other than Miss K couldve known her passwords and been able to use her thumb 
print. I think its most likely that Miss K carried out the transactions herself, or at least 
entered her security information to allow someone else to make the transactions on her 
behalf.
Im aware that Miss K has put forward some theories as to how a fraudster couldve made 
the transactions without her being physically present and/or knowing her passwords. Shes 
suggested, for example, that she mightve been hacked and/or her thumb print may have 
been lifted from a glass. Shes also suggested that a thief may have observed her entering 
the password into her phone before taking it, unlocking it and changing the thumb print on 
the device to their own in order to access her online banking. Ive thought about what Miss K 
has said and I cant rule these possibilities out. But, from what I know about fraud of this 
nature, I dont think these alternative scenarios are likely and I havent seen any evidence to 
support them. The technical evidence strongly suggests that thumb print recognition (which 
would in all likelihood require Miss Ks physical presence) and passwords were used to clear 
the security on Miss Ks mobile phone and online banking. And I consider it most likely that 
Miss K herself passed the relevant security.
Furthermore, the pattern of spending is not what I would usually expect to see when fraud 
has occurred. Typically, a fraudster will quickly empty an account of funds before they are 
detected. But here, based on Miss Ks testimony, her phone was stolen presumably a few 
hours before the first disputed transaction, and there is a gap of several hours between the 
first two high value faster payments. If a fraudster knew Miss Ks passwords, I cant see why 
they would wait several hours to begin taking money from her account. And, if they had been 
able to successfully access her online banking at 05:46 on 11 November 2018, then I dont 
think its likely that they would have waited until 08:19 to make the next transaction.
Overall, I am satisfied that its most likely Miss K carried out the disputed transactions or 
allowed someone else to make them on her behalf. Either way, Santander is entitled to hold 
her liable for them.
Ive seen that Miss K experienced some issues in receiving and using a new debit card. But 
there was no money in her account for her to spend for around two weeks after the disputed 
transactions took place. So I dont think the issues she faced prevented her from spending 
money, and I think the £125 Santander has already paid Miss K in this respect is a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate her for the trouble and upset she faced.Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss K, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman