DRN-2262300
The complaint
Mr P complains that HFC Bank Limited has not fairly compensated him for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P complained to HFC about a PPI policy he was sold with a loan.
In February 2020 HFC replied to Mr P. In its letter HFC agreed to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
HFC offered Mr P £93.04 (net of tax). It said Mr P held the loan for ten months between 
December 1994 and September 1995 and had been charged a total of £36.96 for PPI.
Mr P said he had held the loan for between three and five years and had been charged 
much more for PPI.
An adjudicator from this service thought the offer from HFC was fair.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look into 
how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr P. Instead, in this decision, I am looking at whether 
the compensation offered by HFC is fair.
I know Mr P will likely be disappointed with my findings, but Ive decided the offer made by 
HFC is fair and I will explain why.
The loan was taken out over 25 years ago in the mid nineties so it isnt surprising that there 
are few detailed records available. Mr P has not been able to supply any old statements or 
other documentation. 
HFC has been able to show us screenshots from its internal systems.
Among these is a record of transactions for Mr Ps loan. These show an initial advance of 
£272.46 made on 17 November 1994. They also show ten monthly loan repayments with the 
last being made on 6 September 1995.
I appreciate Mr P recalls paying the loan for longer and recalls making higher repayments for  
the loan, but he hasnt been able to find any documentary evidence, such as old statements 
to show this. And in the absence of any more persuasive evidence it wouldnt be fair for me 
to find that HFCs records are incorrect and direct HFC to assume Mr P paid more for the 
PPI than its existing records show.
HFC has told us Mr P paid a total of £38.96 for the PPI. And it has refunded this together 
with compensatory interest for the time Mr P was out of pocket. And I think thats a fair way 
to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the HFC Bank Limiteds offer of compensation is fair and I make no 
further award against it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman