DRN-2874169
The complaint
Mr S complains about what happened when he mistakenly sent a payment to the wrong
recipient, from his account with TSB Bank plc.
 
What happened
Mr S said he mistakenly sent £100 to the wrong account. He said he notified TSB the next
day. Almost a month later, TSB replied to say it couldnt get his money back. TSB said there
was nothing else it could do.
TSB said Mr S had sent a faster payment of £100. Once a faster payment is sent, it cant be
recalled. TSB had asked the receiving bank to send the money back, but that bank hadnt
responded to it. TSB wanted to stress that Mr S had authorised the payment, and hed
made this mistake. TSB didnt think it should be responsible for putting this right. It had tried,
but couldnt help.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said TSB had initially followed
the procedure for recovering missing money properly. But then it shouldve followed up on its
first attempt at getting the money back, and exhausted all communication methods. Our
investigator said TSB should pay Mr S £100, to return the missing money, and £50 in
compensation.
TSB said its records showed that Mr S put the wrong information in, and had confirmed
those details were correct for the intended recipient. And TSB said that the receiving bank
had confirmed that it couldnt get the money back. That bank hadnt received any response
to its enquiries. TSB said that it had done everything that the relevant guide said it was
supposed to do, so it wanted our investigator to reconsider.
Our investigator still thought TSB shouldve done more. TSB wanted to know what more it
shouldve done. Our investigator didnt change her mind, so TSB said it wanted an
ombudsman to review this case. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont agree with our investigator that TSB should simply have done more. I know 
TSB said the receiving bank hadnt replied to it, and if that was what had happened, 
then I would also have said TSB shouldve made more effort to get a reply. But we 
now know that was a mistake. What TSB meant was that the receiving bank had tried 
to get the money back from its account holder, and the account holder hadnt replied.
So when this case came to me, I asked TSB for some more information about what it 
had done. I wanted to draw its attention to the industry code that covers attempting to 
retrieve misdirected payments, and see if TSB had complied with this.
I also wanted to see if, at the time that Mr Ss payment was sent, TSB was using a 
new system which uses a recipients sort code and account number to check their 
name. That has assisted greatly in reducing misdirected payments. What TSB has 
shown us appears to suggest that this facility was, unfortunately, not yet available 
when Mr S made this payment.
TSB has been keen to stress that Mr S made a mistake. I understand that is how this
payment went missing. But once a mistake like this is made, there is a standard 
process set out for any faster payments which go astray.
That standard process has two slightly different routes  one where the sending bank 
thinks theres clear evidence of a genuine mistake, and one where the bank cant be 
as sure that this was a genuine mistake, because the circumstances are not clear-
cut. I asked TSB which process it had followed, and it didnt tell us this. I cant see 
that this has been set out clearly in its previous responses.
Without this information, its difficult for me to see that TSB has properly completed 
its responsibilities under the code for misdirected payments.
TSB also said its final response gave a clear decision. But I note that its final 
response said that it has not had a response from the recipients Bank which, as Ive 
said, we now know is a mistake. TSBs own internal notes say it did receive a 
response from the recipients bank, and that said that the recipients bank hadnt had 
any reply to its enquiries. So it looks like TSB has given Mr S wrong information here.
I also asked whether TSB had offered Mr S any information on how he might be able 
to get his money back, once it knew that the recall process it had attempted hadnt 
succeeded.
TSB said that it had told Mr S how to complain to us. It said that Any other advice, 
i.e. seeking legal advice or contacting the recipient bank is for the consumer to 
decide. 
It will always be a decision for Mr S, whether he wanted to try other means to get his 
money back once TSB has said it cant help him. But the code I drew to TSBs 
attention says that If funds cannot be recovered through the standard central 
process your bank will give you clear and accurate information on the options you 
have available  such as court action against the recipient. TSB seems to be saying 
that it isnt responsible for giving that information, but the relevant code says it is.
I know it wasnt TSBs fault that this payment went astray. And I can see it has made 
some efforts to retrieve this money. But on the information I have so far, I cant be 
sure whether those efforts have met some of the requirements of the code. And I can 
see that other requirements havent been met, because some information the code 
says TSB should give Mr S hasnt been given.
I dont think TSB has to pay Mr S back the money he lost, because I cant say that its 
most likely he wouldve been able to retrieve this money, even if TSB had acted 
differently. But I do think TSB has fallen short of what I would expect, in terms of the 
service it has provided to Mr S. So I think that TSB should pay Mr S £100 in 
compensation, to make up for that.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr S said he had nothing to add. TSB sent a short response. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said that the message sent to Mr S advises the failure of the request and the reason. 
And it said that this message told Mr S that he should get in touch if he wanted to take it 
further. But TSB said Mr S didnt get in touch, so no additional information was provided. 
Its not clear what message TSB is referring to here. It may be referring to the SMS it sent 
him to say that it hadnt been able to get his money back. We dont have the text of this, so I 
cant see what was said there. But I can see that TSBs own notes say Mr S got in touch with 
it the same day. So it appears that TSB did have the opportunity to give this additional 
information to Mr S.
TSB has never suggested it gave Mr S the additional information about recovering a missing 
payment which is required under the code, either over the phone or in writing. Additionally, 
TSB still hasnt told our service which of the two processes it followed when attempting to 
recall this payment. So its still not clear to me that TSB has properly discharged its 
responsibilities under the relevant code. 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman