DRN-3098390
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc wont refund to her the money that she 
paid for some decking. 
What happened
Mrs S used her RBS credit card in December 2020 to pay £1,380.40 for some decking. She 
claimed a refund from RBS in July 2021 because she said that the colour of the decking had 
faded. It considered her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but said 
that the documentation that shed provided didnt prove that the supplier had gone against its 
terms and conditions or misrepresented the sale so it was unable to agree to her claim for a 
refund. Mrs S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
colour of the decking had faded evenly and the suppliers website advised of fading so she 
didnt think that RBS had been provided with enough evidence to suggest that the decking 
was of unsatisfactory quality. She said that Mrs S would need to show that the decking had 
faded more than it should have done and that it was reasonable that RBS should ask for an 
independent inspection of the decking. She didnt consider that RBS had done anything 
wrong in the way that it had handled Mrs Ss claim. 
Mrs S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
another suppliers review of the decking says that it will fade by 15 to 20% but she thinks that 
her decking has faded by 50 to 60%. She says that shes asked another supplier to inspect 
her decking but it would only do so if it had supplied the decking. RBS says that it will 
reimburse up to £100 to Mrs S for an independent inspection of the decking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S paid for the decking using credit provided by RBS and, in certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about RBS, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract by the supplier of the decking (which in these 
circumstances would be that the decking wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her) or that the decking was misrepresented to her  and that RBSs 
response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not 
determining the outcome of Mrs Ss claim under section 75 as only a court would be 
able to do that;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the colour of the decking has faded and 
Mrs S has provided a photo showing the colour of the decking as supplied and the 
colour of the faded decking;
the suppliers website says: Although our composite decking uses UV stabilisation 
additives during manufacturing they will lighten slightly within the first few 
weeks/months whilst any residual dyes wash out due to weathering before they settle 
into their final colour;
RBS has offered to reimburse up to £100 to Mrs S for the cost of an independent 
inspection of the decking to show whether or not it was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to her  but Mrs S has described the difficulties that shes had in finding 
someone to inspect the decking;
I sympathise with Mrs S for the disappointment that she clearly feels about the fading 
of her decking, but Im not persuaded that shes provided enough evidence to show 
that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her and I consider that its 
fair and reasonable for RBS to ask her to provide a report from an independent 
inspection of the decking  but she hasnt done so;
Im not persuaded that shes provided enough evidence to show that theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the decking and I consider 
that RBSs response to her claim has been fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require RBS to refund to Mrs S 
the cost of the decking, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman