DRN-2262326
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed transactions made on his debit 
card. Mr M says he didnt carry out the transactions.
What happened
On 24 May 2019 Mr M went out to a night club with some team mates from a sports club he 
had recently joined. Mr M has said he remembers making a genuine payment for £20 at the 
bar using his PIN but cant remember anything very clearly after that. He has said he thinks 
his drink was spiked.
Mr M has said he remembers being outside the club alone and getting into a taxi he had 
ordered. And his next memory is waking up at home at 10 am.
Mr M said he noticed that some unauthorised transactions were made on both his debit and 
credit card. He said both his cards were missing as well as the Sim on his phone. He noticed 
his Sim card missing when he went to phone the bank to report the disputed transactions.
Mr M was refunded the credit card transactions, so Ill only be dealing with his debit card 
transactions in this complaint.
All the disputed transactions were on the 24 May 2019.Three debit card transactions were 
disputed by Mr M. He also disputes carrying out the balance enquiry.
4.14 am Balance enquiry
4.47 am Balance enquiry declined Incorrect PIN
8.12 am ATM attempted  not 
successful£280.00
8.20 am ATM successful £280.00
 8.26 am Card payment £900.00
8.32 am Card payment £800.00
The two card payment transactions were in a betting shop and the ATM withdrawal was local 
to the betting shop. At 8.14 am and 8.16 am texts were sent to Mr Ms mobile by Santander 
to request confirmation that the first failed ATM transaction was genuine. At 8.16 am a reply 
confirming this was sent to Santander.
The debit card transactions were authenticated through chip and PIN. Mr M has said he 
hasnt shared his PIN or card with anyone. He also said he had a record of his PIN, but this 
was kept on a password protected excel spreadsheet on his laptop.
Santander investigated. they said because the transactions had been carried out using the 
genuine card and PIN, they didnt think the transactions were fraudulent so wouldnt refund 
Mr M. They also said theyd blocked the first transaction and sent Mr M a text to verify if the 
transaction was genuine. As the transaction was verified as genuine, they declined the 
refund.
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response, so he referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and he didnt think Santander needed 
to do anything further. He thought it was more likely than not Mr M had authorised the 
transactions, because whoever had carried them out needed to know his PIN, have access 
to his card and Sim card. There was no other plausible explanation for what had happened.
Mr M was unhappy with this view. He said there were other possible points of compromise. 
Previously Mr M explained that the last time he used his card was in the nightclub, however 
he now thought it was possible that the taxi driver followed him to the cash point, when he 
carried out a balance enquiry at 4.14 am and overlooked his PIN and then took his card and 
Sim. He explained this could have happened when he was dropped off at his house.
The investigator responded saying he thought the new scenarios were hypothetical and 
there was no supporting evidence for the alternative point of compromise Mr M mentioned. 
The investigator also said he had gone back to the first time Mr M recounted the events of 
that night when they were fresh in his mind and there was no mention of being followed to 
the cash machine by a taxi driver.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Santander can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Santander to hold Mr M liable. So, I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr M consented to the 
disputed transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to conclude Mr M 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
The disputed card transactions were made using the genuine card and PIN. Mr M 
has said he has never given his card to anyone and no one else knew his PIN. Mr M 
has said that someone must have shoulder surfed him in the club when he used his 
card and PIN at 1.38 am and I agree that this is a potential point of compromise for 
his PIN. But a fraudster would have needed his card also.
Mr Ms card was missing when he woke up at home at 10 am. He told us he wasnt 
sure what happened. The card was used for a balance enquiry at 4.14 am. Initially 
Mr M told us the last transaction he authorised was at 1.38 am in the club. Mr M 
more recently told us he may have carried out the balance enquiries. I think the first 
version he told us is what is more likely to have happened. I say this because Mr M 
has always maintained the last authorised transaction was at 1.38 am at the club and in his calls to the bank later that day, he said he hadnt carried out the balance 
enquiry. I think the first version is most likely to be the freshest in his mind. 
The fraudster needed both the card and PIN to make the disputed transactions. It 
seems implausible that a fraudster holding both card and PIN at 4 am wouldnt 
proceeded to spend money on the card and instead wait until 8.12 am, the time of 
the first disputed transaction. An opportunistic fraudster would try to maximise their 
gains as they wouldnt be sure how much time they had to do so.
Mr M has said that he found himself outside the night club alone and unable to get 
back in. Mr M got home in a taxi which he needed his phone to book. So, I must 
assume that he had his Sim with him in order to book the taxi when he left the club. 
However, when he woke the next morning, he noticed his Sim was missing. The Sim 
would have been needed to reply to the banks text to confirm the cash machine 
withdrawal was genuine. Mr M hasnt been able to point to when his Sim was taken.  
After the view Mr M said the taxi driver must have taken the Sim from his phone. 
For a fraudster to have got hold of Mr Ms Sim theyd have needed to gain access to 
Mr Ms phone, successfully remove the Sim and return it without him noticing. This 
puts the fraudster at a high level of risk, and I cant see the benefit to them in doing 
this. 
Mr M has suggested the taxi driver could have carried out the disputed transactions. 
Even if I accept that the taxi driver did get hold of Mr Ms card and PIN on his ride 
home during the balance enquiry at 4.14am. I find it implausible that he didnt use it 
until 8.12 am.
Taking everything into account, I find on balance that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows Santander is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman