DRN-4466685
The complaint
Miss E complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON Scottish Equitable (Aegon) 
declined a claim she made on a joint life insurance policy she held with Mr R. 
What happened
Mr R sadly died unexpectedly in early 2023. Miss E claimed on the joint life insurance policy 
they held together. The claim was declined on the basis that Mr R had incorrectly answered 
a question about his alcohol intake during the application process. Aegon considered this to 
be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to cancel the policy and 
return the premiums. They also offered Miss E an alternative policy, so she wasnt left 
without cover. 
Miss E made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aegon had acted fairly, based on the available 
medical evidence. 
Miss E didnt agree. She said, in summary, that the information about 
Mr Rs alcohol intake was wrong. She was also unhappy that Aegon had indicated Mr Rs 
death was linked to his alcohol use. So, shes asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this complaint and the financial impact on Miss E. 
I appreciate its been a very distressing and worrying time for her. I empathise with what 
Miss E has said and would like to offer my condolences to her. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aegon should handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive also taken into account the 
relevant Code of Practice for managing claims for Life Insurance Products. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aegon thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered questions about his alcohol intake. 
He was asked: 
Have you ever been advised to reduce or stop your alcohol consumption by a doctor, 
nurse or other medical professional? 
Including: A referral for specialist support such as an alcohol dependence unit or 
Alcoholics Anonymous. 
Mr R answered no. 
Ive looked at the available medical evidence and the relevant notes. They refer to 
major acute alcohol intoxication in alcoholism in 1999. A further note in 2004 again referred 
to Mr Rs alcohol intake and that hed stopped alcohol two weeks before. In 2005 his alcohol 
consumption was recorded as 40 units per week. There is also a note in February 2012 
which says: 
Alcohol units per week (Ub173) up to 84 units per week. Concern expressed re 
alcohol intake but patient not concerned and feels this is OK. Information leaflets 
given and blood taken to check LFT
Alcohol consumption counselling (XaKAC)  discussed alcohol intake. Information 
leaflets given and blood taken for LFT patient refused further intervention 
The notes also record the following: 
How often do you have a drink containing alcohol? Four or more times a week 
How many drinks containing alcohol do you have on a typical day when you are 
drinking? 7 to 9
How often do you have six or more standard drinks on one occasion? Daily or almost 
daily
There is a further note in 2019 which says that alcohol intake was 25 units per week. 
Ive taken into account the more recent letter from Mr Rs GP and what Miss E has said 
about the notes being wrong. I think its fair for Aegon to rely on the contemporary medical 
evidence as thats what is recorded at the time. And I note there are a number of previous 
references to Mr Rs alcohol consumption. Ive also considered if its most likely that the 
reference to 84 units was incorrect. However, that information is consistent with the more 
detailed follow up questions about Mr Rs alcohol consumption. I also note that the 
practitioner ordered a liver function test. So, on the basis of the evidence thats available, I 
think Aegon fairly concluded Mr R was advised to reduce his alcohol intake. I appreciate that 
Mr Rs alcohol consumption may have reduced prior to the application being made. But he 
still needed to ensure he answered the questions accurately. 
Aegon has provided evidence that if Mr R had answered yes to the question about whether 
hed been advised to reduce his alcohol consumption they wouldnt have offered Mr R a policy. This would have been based on his medical history and the fact that his application 
form confirmed he still drank alcohol.
This means Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Aegon has said that 
Mr Rs misrepresentation was careless. I agree that it was because I dont think Mr R 
deliberately mislead Aegon. I think its more likely that this was an inadvertent mistake on his 
behalf, particularly bearing in mind that the advice was given several years before the 
application was made. 
As Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Aegon can take in accordance with CIDRA. It says that if a policy wouldnt have 
been offered, they are entitled to avoid the policy and return the premiums paid. They are 
also entitled to treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not 
deal with any claims. Thats what Aegon have done. So, I think thats reasonable and in line 
with the remedy set out in CIDRA. Aegon also made an offer to Miss E to set up a new 
policy in her name so that she didnt lose her cover, as she was also covered by the policy. I 
think that was fair and reasonable. 
Finally, Ive considered what Miss E has said about comments Aegon made about how Mr R 
died which she found disrespectful. She felt Aegon should pay compensation for this. Miss E 
told our investigator that these comments were made verbally and early on in the claims 
process. Having reviewed the available calls I didnt find any evidence of a comment of this 
nature being made. And, whilst I can understand why it was upsetting to Miss E, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Aegon to explain that there can be a link between alcohol and heart 
conditions in their other correspondence. I think this was explained within the context of its 
relevance of the risk they are prepared to cover when considering an application for life 
insurance.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman