DRN-3616135
The complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for some 
kitchen units.
 
What happened
Mr K bought kitchen units with a total cost of £5,519.02 from a supplier. He paid £4,666.02 to 
the supplier using his MBNA credit card in February 2021 and he paid the balance of £853 
from his bank account in April 2021. There were issues with the units when they were 
delivered so Mr K asked for a refund but then agreed that replacement units would be 
supplied. There were issues with the replacement units so Mr K asked for a refund. He says 
that the supplier offered him a full refund but then withdrew its offer so he claimed a refund 
from MBNA under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
MBNA apologised that it hadnt got back to Mr K sooner and given him better service  and it 
said that it would pay £60 to his account. It also said that it was liaising with the supplier 
about his complaint. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that there 
had been a breach of contract as the items received werent of satisfactory quality and that 
Mr K had a right to a refund. She recommended that MBNA should refund £4,666.02 to 
Mr Ks credit card account, backdated to 1 March 2022, and refund £853 to him (with 
interest). She also recommended that it should increase the compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr K to £150.
Mr K has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
kitchen unit prices have increased considerably so he should receive more 
compensation to reflect that;
he transferred a balance to his MBNA card on a 0% interest free deal until January 
2024 and if the refund is made to his credit card he will have missed out on the 0% 
for that period, any interest will be negligible and hell have to purchase the kitchen 
units on his credit card and will have to pay interest on it until the balance is paid off; 
and
he would like any payment made by MBNA to be made directly to his bank account 
and the refund shouldnt be delayed until the units are collected as a refund should 
have been made within 14 days.
MBNA says that an offer was made to Mr K in April 2022 for the supplier to collect the 
kitchen units and then issue a refund and that the offer was still available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint about MBNA, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the kitchen units 
and that MBNAs response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  
but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ks claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
our investigator has described the reasons that she considered that there has been a 
breach of contract and MBNA and the supplier have agreed that the kitchen units will 
be collected and a refund made to Mr K;
Im satisfied that the kitchen units werent of satisfactory quality, which is a breach of 
contract by the supplier for which MBNA is liable under section 75, and I consider 
that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for the kitchen units to be 
collected from Mr K and for the refunds to be made as recommended by our 
investigator;
I recognise that its likely that the cost of replacement kitchen units will have 
increased but I consider that its fair and reasonable for MBNA to refund to Mr K 
under section 75 the amount that he paid the supplier for the kitchen units  and Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to reimburse him 
for the cost of replacement kitchen units or to pay him more than the amount that he 
paid to the supplier;
the supplier has offered to collect the kitchen units and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for MBNA to arrange and pay for the kitchen units to be collected from 
Mr K  but I consider it to be likely that it will be the supplier that collects them from 
him;
Mr K says that he wants his claim resolved without having to deal with the supplier 
any more but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
MBNA to use a third party, and not the supplier, to collect the kitchen units from him;
its clear that Mr K wants this matter resolved as quickly as possible and I consider 
that MBNA should arrange for the kitchen units to be collected from Mr K and for the 
refunds to be made to him without any unnecessary delay but Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to make the refunds before the 
kitchen units are collected from him;
Mr K paid the majority of the cost of the kitchen units using his MBNA credit card and 
hes explained why he would like the refund to be made to his bank account  Ive 
taken account of the points that hes made but I consider that its fair and reasonable 
for MBNA to rework his credit card account as if the refund of £4,666.02 had been 
made to his account on 1 March 2022 and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require MBNA to refund the £4,666.02 to Mr Ks bank account;
MBNA apologised to Mr K and said that it would pay £60 to his account because it 
hadnt got back to him sooner and given him better service  but I agree with our 
investigator that it should have done more to resolve his complaint without having to 
contact the supplier;I agree with our investigator that total compensation of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience that its caused to Mr K in these circumstances is fair and reasonable 
so I find that MBNA should pay another £90 compensation to Mr K (and if it hasnt 
already credited the £60 to his account I find that it should also pay him that £60); 
and
I sympathise with Mr K for the issues that hes had with the kitchen units but I 
consider that the actions that Ive described above are a fair and reasonable way for 
his complaint to be resolved and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require MBNA to do more than that in response to his complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MBNA to take the actions described above and 
as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I order MBNA Limited to:
1. Rework Mr Ks credit card account as if the payment of £4,666.02 was refunded 
to that account on 1 March 2022, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that 
the account was in credit (it should also refund the credit balance to Mr K).
2. If Mr K has repaid the £4,666.02 (or any part of it) to MBNA but doesnt have a 
credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that hes repaid at an annual rate of 
8% simple from 1 March 2022 until the date of settlement.
3. Refund £853 to Mr K.
4. Pay interest on the amount at 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay an additional £90 to Mr K to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from the interest payments referred 
to above. MBNA must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks 
it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman