DRN-3427457
The complaint
Mr Z complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
In July 2021, Mr Z was looking to purchase some gold. He saw some that interested him on 
a social media marketplace. Mr Z contacted the seller and exchanged a number of 
messages with them about the gold. Mr Z also asked the seller to provide identification, he 
said as this was the first time hed dealt with the seller he wanted assurance that this was a 
genuine sale.
Having agreed a price, on 28 July 2021, Mr Z went ahead and made a payment, via mobile 
banking, for £1,207 to the account details the seller had provided. The seller then sent Mr Z 
a copy of the receipt for postage, to show that the items had been dispatched. A short time 
after, Mr Z received the items. But Mr Z has said that he then took the gold to three 
specialists, who told him that the items he had purchased were gold plated and not real gold.  
Mr Z has said he hasnt received a refund from the seller. 
Mr Z raised the matter with HSBC, who looked into the concerns that he had raised. It 
considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of 
which it is a signatory and sent its final response on 30 August 2021, not upholding Mr Zs 
complaint. In summary, it deemed the matter to be a buyer/seller dispute between Mr Z and 
the seller. It said this as Mr Z had received some items from the seller. It did apologise to   
Mr Z for the delay in reviewing his claim, and it paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill in 
recognition of this.  
Mr Z then brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Mr Z and the seller who he had made the payment to. In summary, she said that 
although she acknowledged Mr Z didnt receive exactly what he was expecting, it wasnt 
typical for a fraudster to send an item after a payment had been received. She added that 
the receiving bank account (the bank to which the money was paid) didnt demonstrate any 
unusual activity and overall, she wasnt satisfied she had the evidence to support that the 
seller was aware that the item wasnt real gold. 
Mr Z didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Zs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr Z, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its understandable for such a sum why 
Mr Z feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost 
money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which HSBC has signed up to and was in 
force at the time Mr Z made this payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr Z made and, in particular, whether HSBC ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr Z made formed part of a buyer/seller 
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr Z strongly disagrees, he feels that at 
least half of the money he lost should be refunded to him by HSBC. 
Its clear the agreement Mr Z entered into with the seller did not go as planned. Mr Z has 
said that the specialists who he asked to review the items he received, have told him the 
items were gold plated, rather than the purer gold Mr Z thought he was going to receive. But, 
with what I know, I cant fairly or reasonably say with any certainty that the seller was not 
legitimate and had set out with an intent to defraud Mr Z. This means I dont think HSBC is 
responsible for reimbursing Mr Z because of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
I say that as I wouldnt have expected the seller to send anything to him if he intended to 
steal Mr Zs money and not provide anything in return. Mr Z did receive items from the seller. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not, once in receipt of a 
victims money, will not send anything at all and then no longer be contactable.
Alongside this, Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the circumstances of 
this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud. The seller, at least for a time, was still contactable after 
Mr Z had made the payment  sending Mr Z an image of the addressed packages and a 
copy of the receipt for postage. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often 
than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. As well as this, 
evidence Ive seen from the receiving bank, indicates that the seller had previously 
successfully carried out similar transactions with other customers, without any concerns 
being raised.
 
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance and when considering the individual circumstances of this case, I 
cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. It follows 
that I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, that the seller set out with the 
intent to defraud Mr Z. 
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr Z has lost, as I dont think HSBC treated Mr Z 
unfairly when it said the payment he made was not covered by the CRM Code. And I dont 
think there was anything else HSBC could have done to prevent his loss. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr Z and I dont underestimate how 
disappointing this will be for him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr Z has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman