DRN-3204775
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC approved for credit which he feels was unaffordable
for him at that time.
What happened
Mr C applied for a Lloyds credit account in 2016. His application was approved, and Lloyds
issued Mr C with a credit card with a £2,000 credit limit.
In 2020, Mr C raised a complaint with Lloyds on the basis that he thought that the credit
provided to him by Lloyds had been unaffordable for him at the point of application, and that
this should have been evident to Lloyds, had they undertaken checks into his financial
position at that time.
Lloyds looked at Mr Cs complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken reasonable checks
into Mr Cs financial position at the time of the credit application and that there had been
nothing resulting from those checks that should have given them any cause to suspect that
the credit for which Mr C was applying wouldnt be affordable for him at that time. So, they
didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Mr Cs credit file showed that
Mr C had used a significant numbers of payday loans in the months leading up to the credit
application with Lloyds, which they felt provided a clear indication that Mr C might have been
struggling financially at that time.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds hadnt taken this information into account when approving Mr
Cs application, and that if they had, it would most likely have been the case that the credit
application shouldnt have been approved. Because of this, our investigator recommended
that this complaint be upheld in Mr Cs favour.
Lloyds didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 October 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that 
any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Lloyds contend that they did that here. They took details from Mr C at the point of 
application of his annual income and monthly expenditure to confirm that Mr C would 
most likely be able to afford any potential monthly repayments that might arise on the 
account. Lloyds also obtained information from a credit reference agency to develop 
a better understanding of Mr Cs wider financial position. And Lloyds maintain that 
there was nothing resulting from these checks that suggested that Mr C might not be 
able to afford the credit that he was subsequently approved for.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator noted that Mr Cs credit file evidenced 
that Mr C had taken a significant number of payday loans in the months leading up to 
the credit application, and they felt that this should have been an indicator to Lloyds 
that Mr C might have been experiencing financial difficulty at that time such that the 
provision of further credit to Mr C might not be reasonable.
In their response to the view put forward by our investigator, Lloyds noted that the
information that they obtained from the credit reference agency doesnt take the form 
of a full credit report  as had been provided to this service by Mr C and which had 
been assessed by our investigator  but rather that it takes the form of a summary 
that provides a high level view of Mr Cs credit profile, including the total amount of 
existing credit at that time as well as whether any existing accounts had adverse 
reporting as a result of missed or late payments, etc, but which didnt include a 
detailed breakdown of closed credit accounts.
Lloyds further contended that because the majority of the payday loan accounts had 
already been repaid by Mr C without incident before his credit application to Lloyds, 
these accounts were closed accounts and so hadnt been included in the information 
provided by the credit reference agency. As such, Lloyds contended that it hadnt 
been possible for them to have taken these payday loans into account.
I can appreciate Lloyds position here, and I note that at the time of the credit 
application assessment, Mr C only had two active payday loan accounts - which I do 
not consider to be a significant amount.
While the use of payday loans can be seen as an indicator of potential financial 
difficulty, this would generally only be the case where the use of payday loans was 
present with other indicators of potential financial difficulty  such as evidence of 
missed or late payments on existing credit or evidence of a potentially unsustainable 
amount of total external debt  and I wouldnt consider that the use of payday loans 
in isolation, without other indicators of financial difficulty being present, should 
necessarily give a business cause to suspect that a customer might not be able to 
afford a line of credit for which theyre applying, especially if that line of credit is 
relatively small.
And, in this instance, I do feel that the £2,000 line of credit that Mr C was ultimately
approved for was relatively small, when considered against his stated annual income 
of £33,000 and his total external debt of £16,000. And it should be noted that Mr C 
declared that at the point of application that he intended to use the credit to pay off 
other debts  which he ultimately did  meaning that his total level of indebtedness 
wouldnt increase.
As such, while I can appreciate that Mr C did use a large number of payday loans in 
the time leading up to the credit application with Lloyds, given that Mr C repaid these 
payday loans on time and without incident in every instance, meaning that no 
adverse information was recorded on his credit file that would then have been included in the report from the credit reference agency received by Lloyds, Im 
satisfied that information about the large number of repaid payday loans wouldnt 
have been provided to Lloyds by the credit reference agency such that it could have 
been assessed by them.
Furthermore, while it was the case that this information was available on Mr Cs full 
credit report, I would only expect a business to look to obtain and assess a full credit 
report if it were reasonable and proportionate for them to do so.
In this instance, Im satisfied that the information that Lloyds had already gathered 
about Mr Cs financial position at the time of the application, including the report 
received from the credit reference agencies, was reasonable and proportionate in 
relation to the amount of credit being applied for, and didnt include any information 
which I feel should have given Lloyds reasonable cause to suspect that Mr C might 
be experiencing financial difficulty so that further investigation into Mr Cs financial 
position was warranted.
And, while the reporting that Lloyds received didnt include that Mr C had two active 
payday loans at the time of the application, given that there were no other indicators 
of financial difficulty present in the information that Lloyds obtained and assessed, I 
dont feel that had the presence of the two active payday loans been known to 
Lloyds, that this should have given them cause to reconsider their decision to 
approve Mr C for the credit that he was applying for at that time or to have conducted 
any further checks.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by approving Mr C for the credit account that they did here. And it 
follows from this that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr C and Lloyds the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Lloyds confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, while   
Mr C disagreed with my provisional decision and provided some additional points for me to 
consider.
Mr C has questioned whether it was responsible for Lloyds to have approved him for the 
£2,000 credit limit that they did, which Mr C feels was high and which he notes was higher 
than several lines of credit approved to him by other lenders. However, as referenced in my 
provisional decision letter, its up to a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a 
customer and on what terms, and I dont feel that the £2,000 line of credit that Mr C was 
approved for is particularly high when considered against Mr Cs stated annual income at 
that time of £33,000. Its also notable that Mr Cs stated intention on applying for the credit 
was that it would be used to clear other credit commitments  which was the case  which 
meant that Mr Cs total level of indebtedness didnt increase significantly as a result of being 
approved for the credit.
Mr C has also stated that he feels that the level of credit that Lloyds provided him meant that 
further checks into his financial position should have been undertaken by Lloyds and that 
these further checks would have resulted in Lloyds becoming aware that he was in fact in a 
difficult financial position at that time such that his application for the credit account wouldnt 
have been approved.
Im not convinced by Mr Cs position here, and I note that a business is requested to 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks into a customers financial position. And I would only expect the further checks to which Mr C refers to be undertaken by a business 
when a significantly higher amount of credit is being offered to a customer than was the case 
in this instance, and Im satisfied that the checks that Lloyds did undertake here were 
reasonable and proportionate in relation to the amount of credit being offered to Mr C at that 
time  which I dont consider to be a particularly large amount when considered either as a 
standalone credit amount or in relation to Mr Cs stated annual income.
Mr C has also noted that Lloyds appear to have considered agreeing with the 
recommendation previously put forward by the investigator to uphold this complaint in Mr Cs 
favour only to later request that the matter be reconsidered by an ombudsman. I can 
appreciate how this might be frustrating for Mr B, but Lloyds are entitled to request an 
ombudsman decision, as they did, and I dont consider that Lloyds early correspondence 
with this service constitutes a tacit acceptance of our investigators view such that it should 
supersede Lloyds right to request an ombudsman decision.
Finally, Mr C has noted that several similar complaints with other credit providers that he has 
brought forwards have been found in his favour and feels that its unreasonable for this 
complaint not to follow suit. I can appreciate Mr Cs concerns here, and Id like to assure Mr 
C that Ive considered this complaint impartially on its own merits and based on the 
information provided to me. Id also like to confirm to Mr C that my decision here hasnt been 
influenced by any outside factors, including the results of any other complaints that Mr C 
might have brought to this service which, while they may have similarities to this complaint, 
are unlikely to be identical. 
All of which means it remains my position that it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Lloyds to 
have approved Mr C for the line of credit that they did here, and it follows from this that my 
final decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting, but I hope that Mr C will 
understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman