DRN-3452023
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s decision to 
settle a claim it received from a third party as a fault claim under Ms Bs car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Bs insurer LV received a claim from a third party for an incident in March 2020. Ms B 
said she wasnt involved. This incident took place in an area where Ms B went to work, but 
she says she wasnt there on the day in question. 
Ms B provided details of a witness who would say she was elsewhere and to support her 
account. LV wasnt able to get a reply from the witness. An engineer assessed Ms Bs car 
and identified damage which could be contributed to the incident. So based on the 
information available, LV made the decision to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
Ms B complained to LV. But it said its decision was correct. 
Ms B asked us to look at her complaint. She is unhappy that she lost her No Claims 
Discount (NCD) and her premium went up at renewal as a result of the incident. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Ms B didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Ms Bs policy with LV has a term Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This 
term allows LV to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Ms Bs name. This 
means LV might make a decision Ms B doesnt agree with but the policy allows LV to do this. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer can show it treated a 
customer fairly when applying it. 
LV passed the case to its solicitors as the third party insurer (TPI) intended to issue 
proceedings. Having reviewed the available evidence to defend the claim, LVs solicitors 
didnt think their prospects of success were high enough to justify pursuing the matter to 
court. It didnt have sufficient evidence to show that Ms Bs car wasnt at the scene  and an 
engineer identified damage to her car consistent with the circumstances of the collision as 
described by the third party. It contacted the witness provided by Ms B to support her 
account but didnt receive a reply. 
LV can make a decision that its better to settle a claim on the best terms possible rather 
than continue to court with the risk of significant costs and a low prospect of success. 
I understand how disappointed Ms B is with LVs decision. But I think it properly investigated 
the claim and reached its decision to settle it as a fault claim in a reasonable way. I think LV 
acted in line with the policy. And as LV has settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, 
Ms B can seek recovery independently from the third party. But she will need to seek her 
own legal advice about that. 
As there has been a claim under the policy, this has reduced her NCD and led to an 
increase in the premium at renewal. But as I think LV correctly recorded the claim, I dont 
think its responsible for the impact the claim has had on how insurers price a policy for Ms B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman