DRN-4190428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled 
a claim on their home insurance following a leak in their kitchen.
Both Mr and Mrs B are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs B, Ill refer mainly to Mrs B from here onward.
Mrs B bought her policy through an insurance intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with Lloyds. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to Lloyds includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Mrs B had a Lloyds insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In March 2022, she 
discovered a leak in her kitchen. She called Lloyds who agreed to send out a contractor to 
assess the damage. In the meantime, Mrs B arranged for a plumber to fix a broken pipe.
Over the following months, Mrs B had many problems trying to get Lloyds to fix the damage 
caused by the leak and the subsequent discovery of asbestos tiles under the kitchen floor, 
including:
Delays handling the claim.
Poor workmanship by Lloyds contractors, for example flooring removed and left 
exposed, kitchen units removed and left in another room.
Different contractors turning up to do work without knowing what others were doing.
Contractors unable to carry out repairs because work by other contractors hadnt 
been done.
Replacement kitchen units not being of the same quality as the original units.
Poor communication from Lloyds and its contractors throughout their claim.
Mr and Mrs B say this caused them significant distress and inconvenience.
Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs B £1,800 as cash settlement for the replacement kitchen flooring. 
It also accepted that its handling of the claim was poor. In total, it offered Mr and Mrs B £950 
to apologise for the distress the matter caused them.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. They dont think the cash settlement is 
enough to replace their flooring, and dont think £950 adequately compensates them for the 
distress and inconvenience Lloyds caused them.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. While she found 
that Lloyds handling of Mr and Mrs Bs claim had been very poor, and recognised the impact 
this had on them, she thought Lloyds settlement offers  for both the flooring and its poor 
handling of the claim  were fair.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2023. I said:
Lloyds has accepted most of the complaint points made by Mrs B. The two points of 
disagreement are:
1. The settlement offer for Mr and Mrs Bs replacement flooring.
2. The compensation Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B to reflect the significant distress 
it caused by its handling of their claim.
Ive considered both below.
Settlement offer
Mrs Bs policy says Lloyds will offer either like-for-like replacement flooring or a cash 
settlement to the same value. Lloyds says the flooring Mrs B wants it to pay for is of better 
quality than their original flooring (known as betterment). I think thats right.
Mrs B accepts that the flooring is of a different type than the original kitchen floor. She told 
us the flooring company said there wouldnt be a significant difference in price between 
wooden and vinyl flooring. While that may be true, Lloyds only has to pay the cost of 
replacing the original flooring. I can also see that Lloyds experts said Mrs B preferred 
flooring was more complex  and therefore more expensive  to install.  
Having reviewed all the information available, Im satisfied that Lloyds settlement offer of 
£1,800 for the replacement flooring is fair.
Compensation for distress
Ive reviewed everything Mrs B has told us and Lloyds internal notes on this claim. The most 
relevant points are:
The initial leak was in March 2022. The final cash settlement offer for replacement 
flooring wasnt made until September 2022.
Repairs to the kitchen units and flooring took more than four months.
During this time, multiple contractors attended Mrs Bs home many times causing 
significant disruption.
Mrs Bs photos show that workmen left her home in an unacceptable state during the 
repairs. I think this was both dangerous and disruptive.
In addition, dust created during some of the repairs caused Mrs B significant health 
concerns, especially given the presence of asbestos.
Its apparent that some work couldnt be carried out because other work hadnt been 
done.
The communication with Mrs B from both Lloyds and its contractors was extremely 
poor. This was particularly relevant given the number of different contractors involved 
creating confusion about who was due to attend on what date.
Lloyds has so far offered Mr and Mrs B £950, as follows:
June 2022. £300 for poor workmanship and poor service.August 2022. An additional £400 for poor workmanship, poor service, and delays 
resolving the matter.
September 2022. An additional £250 for poor workmanship, poor service, and further 
delays.
I think Lloyds caused Mr and Mrs B substantial distress. It caused a serious amount of 
disruption to their daily lives over several months. Mrs B has explained the significant impact 
this had on her family and social life. On balance, I agree with Mrs B that Lloyds current 
offer doesnt adequately reflect this.
Ive considered the level of award this service makes in similar circumstances. Having done 
so, I think Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B £1,500.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B were content with my findings and accepted my provisional decision. Mrs B 
asked me to pass on one final comment to Lloyds:
Please do not use [the main contractor] ever again for any other customers. I would 
hate to think of anyone else having to go through the hassle, rudeness and 
aggravation that we experienced from them.
Lloyds had nothing further to add and told us it was happy to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing new to add, theres no 
reason for me to change my findings. I uphold the complaint in part for the same reasons set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and order Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
If it has not already done so, pay Mr and Mrs B £1,800 cash settlement for their 
replacement kitchen flooring.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £1,500 in total to reflect the distress and inconvenience its 
handling of their claim has caused. If it has already paid Mr and Mrs B £950  as per 
its final offer in September 2022  it need only pay the additional £550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman