DRN-3145304
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly by accepting him as guarantor for a
loan taken out by a third party (the borrower). Mr K is represented in this complaint by a
family member, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr K.
What happened
Mr K says Bamboo was wrong to allow him to act as guarantor for a loan taken by the
borrower. The loan, opened in July 2019, was for £4,500 to be repaid in 36 monthly
instalments of £219. While Mr K accepts he agreed to become a guarantor, he says he
wasnt aware what it meant, and it wasnt properly explained to him. He says the borrower
was present during his conversations with Bamboo, pressuring him and telling him what to
say. Mr K says the loan was unaffordable for the borrower so it shouldnt have been given.
Bamboo looked into his concerns and said it was satisfied the checks it carried out were
proportionate and showed Mr K could afford the loan if called upon. It said it had listened to
conversations that took place with Mr K and there was no evidence of him being pressured
into acting as guarantor. Hed demonstrated during those calls that he understood the role of
a guarantor. Bamboo rejected his complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators
looked into it. He said he felt Bamboo hadnt carried out sufficient checks when agreeing the
loan. Our investigator noted that the borrower had overstated his income in the application
and felt this should have led to Bamboo making further checks to gain a full understanding of
their financial situation. He felt it was likely the loan never affordable for the borrower
because theyd made no payments to the loan at all and Mr K was required to step in to
make payments as guarantor from the first payment onwards. He asked Bamboo to put
matters right for Mr K.
Mr K accepted our investigators opinion, but Bamboo didnt. It outlined the information it
received and the checks it had carried out. It said the loan was for debt consolidation and
was sufficient to clear defaulted balances putting the borrower in a better financial position.
Bamboo also disputed our investigators suggestion that the borrowers failure to meet the
first payment indicated the loan was unaffordable from the outset.
As there was no agreement, Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator but for different reasons 
and issued a provisional decision. I said:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending and
guarantor loans on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks
complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to the borrower
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that borrower would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. The fact that the loan was
guaranteed by a third party and the potential of Bamboo to pursue Mr K as guarantor instead
of the borrower doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
Bamboo has provided copies of the information it considered when it agreed to lend to the
borrower. This has included information it received from a credit reference agency which
provided detailed information concerning the bank accounts of the borrower and Mr K.
Bamboo felt the information gave it a thorough knowledge of the borrowers circumstances.
Ive looked carefully at that information and there are number of issues which I think Bamboo
ought to have noticed and, if it had, ought to have led Bamboo to look further into the
borrowers circumstances. For example:
The report lists recurring sources of income into the borrowers account. One of the
items listed is the reversal of payments to a letting agent along with the borrowers
address. The total for this income is £2,975 for the year the report covers. Later in
the report, this is broken down as five payments of £595. Three of these reversals
took place in 2019 the final two of which were dated 3 June and 1 July 2019.
These indicate to me that the borrower had been unable to pay the rent on his 
property five times in the last year and, most concerningly, in the two months leading 
up to this application.
Other sources of income include benefit payments quoting two different national
insurance numbers. This indicates the account being reported on was a joint
account, so the activity - especially the income  was not solely belonging to the
borrower.
Under another heading  this time other recurring inflows - a total of £18,600 of
payments from a short-term finance company are listed.
The heading recurring fixed expenditure shows monthly loans & repayments
totalling £1,358. This represents a significant proportion of borrowers declared
earned income of £1,500.
Bamboo also obtained a copy of the borrowers credit file. This showed they had total credit
balances of just over £13,000 across 10 active accounts. In the last year, theyd had three
credit providers register a default against them.
So I understand why Bamboo feels it obtained enough information to obtain a thorough
knowledge of the borrowers circumstances, but Im not persuaded it paid close attention to
the information it had.
I think Bamboo ought to have realised that the borrower was likely to be in financial difficulty
and they were unlikely to be able to repay the loan sustainably. In view of this, I dont think
Bamboo made a fair decision to lend to the borrower. It follows that if it had refused the loan,
Mr K wouldnt have become a guarantor for the loan.
In these circumstances, Ive not needed to consider whether Mr K could afford the loan or
the circumstances around him becoming guarantor, because I dont think it should havebeen granted.
Putting things right
Subject to any further evidence or arguments from Mr K or Bamboo Limited, Im minded to
uphold this complaint. To put matters right, Bamboo Limited should:
Release Mr K from any liability for the loan.
Refund any payments hes made to the loan.
Add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each payment to the
date of the refund. If Bamboo Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove from Mr Ks credit file any adverse information regarding the loan.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision, but I received no response from Bamboo. I see no 
reason to depart from what Ive said.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bamboo Limited should settle this complaint as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman