DRN-3593005
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) unfairly declined her 
claim on her home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Gresham involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Gresham.
What happened
In early December 2021 Mrs K made a claim on her home insurance policy with Gresham, 
after she had found damage to tiles on her roof.  This had caused damage to an internal wall 
at the back of a kitchen unit and there was mould at the back of the unit.
Mrs K thought the damage to the roof had been caused by the stormy weather the previous 
weekend and two weekends before she made the claim.  She said she was not aware of the 
issue with the roof until her neighbour brought it to her attention.  
Gresham organised for its approved loss adjuster to assess and validate the claim. After 
inspecting Mrs Ks property it concluded the roof damage was not caused by a one-off 
insured event. It said the poor weather conditions in the area at the time highlighted a 
pre-existing issue with the roof which she had not been aware of until her neighbour brought 
it to her attention.  
Gresham did not agree the internal damage was as a result of water coming from the roof 
because it only found damage to the base of the unit and not the upper parts of the wall/unit.
 
Gresham declined Mrs Ks claim for the roof and the internal damage.
As Mrs K was not happy with Gresham, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said as the loss 
adjusters report concluded the damage was due to damp and had happened over time, that 
Gresham had been fair in declining her claim under the exclusion; We will not cover loss or 
damage: that happens gradually.
As Mrs K is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about claims as a result of storm damage we approach them 
in a similar manner. There are three conditions that need to be met before we can say that a
business should deal with a claim for storm damage. Those conditions are:
1) Was there a storm?
I looked at the weather reports for three weeks before Mrs K made her claim and I saw there 
were stong winds recorded in the week before she made her claim. 
2) Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
No, I looked at the report completed by the loss adjuster. It said it found one roof tile with a 
hole in it. However it did not appear to have moved. Readings from the external walls in the 
kitchen and bathroom found high levels of moisture. Gresham said the damage to the roof 
was caused gradually and was not consistent with wind damage.
3) Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
No, the loss adjusters report concludes the damage to the tile on the roof was not as a result 
of a storm and is due to a gradual process. And the damage to the bottom of the kitchen 
larder unit was unrelated to the damaged roof tile and was as a result of damp within the 
property. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy. It says; 
We will provide cover for loss or damage to the buildings caused by any one of the 
following:
2. Storm or flood.
We will not cover loss or damage;
to fences, gates and hedges;
caused by frost; or
that happens gradually.
Therefore Gresham were within the terms of the policy to decline Mrs Ks claim due to the 
exclusion; We will not cover loss or damage; that happens gradually.   
I looked to see if the internal damage may be considered under accidental damage, 
However Mrs Ks policy did not include buildings accidental damage.
I understand this will have been a very stressful time for Mrs K, but after considering all the 
evidence provided, I think Gresham acted within the terms of the policy and fairly declined 
Mrs Ks claim. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint and do not require Gresham to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman