DRN-4370282
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the outcome of her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF). The claim relates to a loan provided by BPF to fund the purchase of a timeshare 
product.   
What happened
In or around December 2013, Mrs R and her husband were away on holiday at a popular 
resort outside of the UK. During their holiday, they were invited to the offices of a timeshare 
supplier (who Ill refer to as S) for an update. As a consequence of that meeting, they 
agreed to upgrade their existing timeshare product.
The cost of the upgrade product was £18,125 and required that they rescind their existing 
timeshare product. The total purchase price was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement 
in Mrs Rs sole name with BPF. 
In June 2022, Mrs R wrote to BPF, essentially to bring a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
(S75). She said:
S told them they had to upgrade their membership or would not be allowed to return 
to the resort;
S said they could sell their new membership the following year and retain a smaller 
membership;
they were put under a barrage of pressure;
they were promised copies of the contract which werent received;
the resort club went into receivership three months later and they werent able to use 
the product purchased;
they were misled in to purchasing a product that was not fit for purpose; and
despite contacting BPF (and S) previously, theyd received no response.
At the same time, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service and provided copies of 
documentation relating to the timeshare product purchased.
Having not received a response from BPF Mrs R wrote to BPF again in January 2023. She 
reiterated much of what had been previously said asking BPF to consider their personal 
circumstances with the mis-selling of this product under the [CCA] and section 140a of the 
[CCA] (S140A). She said BPF had been found liable for the breaches of contract and have 
been required to put money aside to repay the clients []. 
One of our investigators contacted BPF with details of Mrs Rs complaint. In response, BPF 
confirmed that Mrs Rs loan account had been opened on 8 January 2014 and closed on 10 
March 2015. They agreed a breach of contract may have occurred but didnt agree the resort 
had entered an insolvency process when Mrs R had suggested. To consider Mrs Rs claim 
further, they said they needed evidence she still owned the membership when S went into 
liquidation in 2019. They also specified the evidence they required. Details of BPFs 
response and requirements were provided to Mrs R by our investigator.
Having not received any of the information BPF required, our investigator considered Mrs 
Rs complaint. Having done so, our investigator didnt think BPF had treated her unfairly.
Mrs R didnt agree. She insisted the resort had been locked up with no owners allowed to 
use their weeks shortly after they purchased the timeshare upgrade. She also said shed 
already provided all the documentation she held.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, Mrs Rs complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and reach a final decision. Having done that, while I was currently inclined to 
reach the same outcome as our investigator, I considered a number of issues which I dont 
feel were previously fully addressed. As a result, I issued a provisional decision on 6 
September 2023 giving both parties the opportunity to respond before I reached a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mrs 
R paid for the timeshare product using a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement. So 
it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mrs R is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions, subject to any 
limitation that may apply. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when 
deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs R and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement)  again subject to 
any limitation that may apply. And because the product purchased was funded under 
the credit agreement, theyre deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the 
power to make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered 
it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mrs Rs complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). This is because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan 
with BPF - took place in 2013. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but 
as its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its important to stress this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of Mrs Rs 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available, rather 
than deciding the claim itself. This service isnt able to make legal findings. As Ive 
already said, thats the role of the courts. While the decision of an ombudsman can 
be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. 
Where Mrs R doesnt accept my findings, that doesnt prejudice her right to pursue 
her claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said andWas the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
Mrs R says S misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreements and benefits to 
them when they agreed to purchase the product. And she believes BPF should be 
held liable for those misrepresentations under S75 of the CCA.
But a S75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mrs R had to 
make a claim within six years of when she entered into the purchase contract and 
credit agreement, which Mrs R confirms took place in December 2013. Thats 
because this is when she says she lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
Although Mrs R says shed previously contacted BPF, Ive not seen any evidence 
that details of any alleged misrepresentations were submitted to BPF before she 
referred her complaint to this service in June 2022. And as this was more than six 
years after the purchase was completed and Mrs R says she lost out; I believe a 
court is likely to find that her claim for misrepresentation falls outside of the time limit 
permitted in the LA. 
Was the claim for breach of contract under S75 made in time?
As for misrepresentation, a claim for breach of contract is also covered under section 
9 of the LA. So, the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued. Mrs R says they werent able to use their 
membership, as the resort where they held their timeshare had ceased trading three 
months after they completed their purchase. If that was the case, under the LA, Mrs 
R had to make a claim within six years of the point at which her membership couldnt 
be used. And as this was more than six years after her complaint was raised with this 
service and BPF; I believe a court is likely to find that her claim for breach of contract 
falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA.
All that considered, BPF say that S didnt enter into liquidation until 2019. My own 
research suggests the liquidators appointment was 15 January 2020. So, if that were 
the case and Mrs R still held her timeshare ownership at that time, any claim would 
need to be made within six years of that point given that would be the point she 
wouldve lost out.
BPF have acknowledged this and asked that Mrs R provide evidence to show that 
her membership remained live at the point S entered into liquidation. This appears a 
reasonable request. Particularly as a successful claim relies upon proving that Mrs R 
actually lost out as a consequence.  And to do that, she would need to have still had 
a valid and active timeshare membership at the point S entered liquidation.
Having considered the documentation available, the timeshare certificate shows that 
the product membership purchased runs until 1 January 2050. That is unless the 
membership had been rescinded or sold. I appreciate its difficult to prove a negative 
 i.e., that the membership hadnt been rescinded or sold. However, if the 
membership was still valid in 2019, I would expect there to be something to support 
that. 
BPF have suggested Mrs R could provide evidence that her annual maintenance 
fees were paid up to date to the point S entered liquidation. Alternatively, that shed 
received communication from S confirming that the membership could no longer be 
used due to the insolvency process. But despite that request, the only evidence 
provided of maintenance fees paid relates to 2018  the year before BPF say S 
entered liquidation. For Mrs Rs claim to be considered, she would need to provide evidence that maintenance fees had been paid for 2019 or otherwise that the product 
membership was still active and valid.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
There are certain aspects of Mrs Rs claim that could be considered under S140A. 
She specifically references this in her letter to BPF in January 2023. A S140A claim 
is a claim for sums recoverable by statute  which is also governed by Section 9 of 
the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also six years from the 
date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, it was the 
date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mrs R and BPF continued while the finance agreement 
remained live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreement ended and any 
borrowing under it was repaid.
BPF say that Mrs Rs loan was closed in March 2015. So, she would need to have 
submitted a claim within six years of that point. However, as Ive seen no evidence 
that a claim was made prior to Mrs Rs referral to this service, it seems likely a court 
would find any claim under S140A had been made too late.
Summary
As Ive explained, it appears likely that any claim for misrepresentation under S75 
and an unfair relationship under S140A was brought too late under the LA. So, I cant 
reasonably say that BPFs failure to uphold those claims was unfair or unreasonable. 
However, the claim for breach of contract under S75 may still be valid if it can be 
proven that Mrs Rs timeshare membership was still live at the point S entered 
liquidation in 2019/20. 
By issuing a provisional decision, Im giving Mrs R a final opportunity to provide 
evidence to support this. If I (or BPF) receive that evidence, its possible such a claim 
can be considered further.  But in the absence of any other evidence, I dont currently 
intend to ask BPF to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having received my provisional decision, BPF confirmed they didnt wish to submit any 
further information for consideration.
Mrs R responded in writing to confirm she thought my provisional findings were fair and 
provided nothing more for me to consider.
In the circumstances, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings and my final 
decision therefore serves to formally conclude matters regarding Mrs Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman