DRN-3092870
The complaint
Mr J complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (SE) allowed his pension switch 
to proceed in 2013 without warning him about the risk factors in doing so. In particular he 
was a not given a the Scorpion Warning literature. It is submitted that SE failed to meet the 
standards expected of a regulated pension provider and the failures led to Mr J losing his 
pension funds. Mr J is represented and his representative says that SE failed to fulfill its 
duties under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles 2 and 6. In essence it says 
that SE failed to carry out sufficient checks before the pension switch went ahead.
It also said that SE should have obtained a wide range of financial details about Mr J, such 
as Mr Js financial circumstances, objectives, motivation, attitude tor risk and other pension 
options.
What happened
Mr Js says that he was contacted out of the blue by a business called Deuten Services, 
told his pension was underperforming and he could get a free pension review. He then says 
he was told that he should switch his pension from SE to another pension scheme. He says 
he was told his investment would be in forestry. He decided to go ahead.
SE then received a request from Easy Financial Planning Ltd (EFP), a regulated financial 
adviser, for information on Mr Js pension scheme in April 2013. SE supplied that information 
in May 2013. Mr J says he doesnt have any knowledge of EFPs involvement. 
Subsequently, in July 2013, Mr J switched his pension to the Genwick Retirement Benefit 
Scheme (Genwick). SE says it received this request on 18 July 2013 and processed it on 19 
July 2013. 
Mr Js money was then invested via the Genwick pension scheme. Mr Js representative 
says that the investment has failed and Mr J has lost all the money switched to Genwick. 
Mr Js representative complained to SE but SE did not uphold the complaint. It said it was 
not responsible for assessing the suitability of the pension switch or Mr Js subsequent 
investment. It was not authorised to give such advice and at no point indicated to Mr J that it 
would give him advice. It said there was no negligence on its part and it acted on the 
instructions received from Mr J. It did not believe it had caused Mr J any loss or any distress 
or inconvenience. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He didnt 
believe the complaint should be upheld. In summary the investigator said:
SE was not required to give Mr J advice or check he had received such. And at the 
time Mr J wasnt required to seek such advice. And businesss requesting pension 
information didnt need to be regulated.
The scheme Mr J was switching to was an occupational pension scheme (OPS) so it 
didnt need to be regulated by the FCA. 
The principle check SE needed to carry out was to make sure that the pension 
scheme was registered with HMRC and that the new pension scheme could accept 
the switch. SE received confirmation that the scheme had been registered with 
HMRC. 
In February 2013, The Pensions Regulator (TPR) had issued what is known as the 
Scorpion guidance. This guidance included an action pack for firms. The action 
pack outlined the guidance that was deemed to be good industry practice. It was fair 
and reasonable to expect that SE would take into account this guidance.
The guidance included a number of warning signs that might indicate pension 
liberation might occur. SE didnt have to contact every individual who wanted to 
switch or transfer  only look out for the warning signs. 
The only relevant warning signs in Mr Js case was the distance between where he 
lived and the location of the pension scheme. And that the pension scheme was 
newly registered. The investigator didnt believe that these factors would have been 
sufficient to raise cause for concern. The Scorpion guidance didnt specify that the 
pension provider needed to contact all pension members in such circumstances, so 
he didnt believe SE had done anything wrong.
Mr J had confirmed that there had been no mention of accessing his pension funds.
He didnt believe the provision of the Scorpion booklet in the circumstances would 
have altered Mr Js decision to switch. Mr J was not liberating any money from his 
pension and whilst he had been approached directly, the role of a regulated adviser 
in the process would have likely given Mr J reassurance. There was no other 
indication that the switch was untoward. 
Mr Js representative did not accept the investigators assessment. It said that it was wrong 
for SE to ignore that the pension scheme Mr J was switching to was far away from where he 
lived. It also said it was relevant to the outcome of this complaint that the Scorpion leaflet 
was not provided. It said that Mr J had said that if he had been given the Scorpion booklet 
then he would not have switched. This was because the leaflet was clear and easy to read 
with all the warnings clearly displayed. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SE was operating
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like SE, are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any FSA/FCA rules that 
specify the checks providers need to do before someone can transfer from a 
personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the Scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some 
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, and 
other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about 
the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as SE.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives,
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did SE follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I have seen the following documents:
A letter from EFP to SE dated 23 April 2013. This asked SE for various pension 
information in respect of Mr J. Mr J had signed the accompanying form to indicate he 
had given EFP authority to request that information. 
A letter from Deuten to SE enclosing discharge forms so that the pension switch to 
Genwick could go ahead. It set out that Genwick scheme was an OPS.
A letter from SE to Deuten dated 19 July 2013 which confirmed the money from Mr 
Js SE pension had been sent to it.
SE says that it did undertake additional checks on Genwick in August 2013 because of the 
volume of transfer requests it was receiving. But the results of these enquiries gave it no 
cause for concern. It confirms that SE didnt have any concern with Genwick before August 
2013. 
SE says that because a regulated IFA was involved (EFP) it didnt send the Scorpion 
guidance to Mr J  because it would expect IFAs to be aware of pension scams. It did check 
that the pension scheme was registered with HMRC, the Genwick scheme was not on its list 
of pension scams it had concerns about and the transfer paperwork was correctly 
completed. 
As discussed, in February 2013, TPR had issued what is known as Scorpion guidance. This 
guidance included an action pack for firms. The action pack outlined the guidance that was 
deemed to be good industry practice. The guidance was primarily aimed at identifying and 
warning against pension liberation. But it did also contain some examples of issues that 
consumers should take into account if they are considering moving their pension. 
  
I note that Mr J has confirmed that pension liberation was not incurring (he wasnt taking any 
cash lump sums from the plan). Therefore primary purpose of the Scorpion booklet  
warning about pension liberation - did not apply. 
The only matter raised by the Scorpion guidance that is likely to have any effect on Mr Js 
decision to switch pension was that of being approached directly, or cold-called, by a business in relation to a switch or transfer. But given that liberation was not occurring and 
other matters the booklet warned about, such as the pension being moved overseas or cash 
bonuses/loans being offered, did not apply to Mr J, I dont believe that on its own would have 
led to Mr J changing his decision. I agree that the guidance is written in plain English but 
most of what it discussed did not apply to Mr J and I dont believe likely that the one factor of 
being cold-called would have been sufficient for Mr J to have decided against the pension 
switch. 
The Scorpion guidance did also have guidance for the trustees of pension schemes as to the 
warning signs it might wish to look out for before making a switch or transfer. Only two 
factors would have been apparent to SE  that the Genwick scheme was newly registered 
with HMRC and that Mr Js address was some way distant from the pension schemes. I 
have not seen any other factors. SE took some comfort in the fact that a regulated financial 
adviser was involved and therefore there would be on the face of it some regulatory 
protections applying in Mr Js case  that may not be present where there was no such 
involvement or the involvement of an unregulated party. 
In these specific circumstances I dont believe there was sufficient reason for SE to explore 
the matter further or contact Mr J  there was no overriding requirement that it contact a 
member in every case because they were thinking of transferring. Even then, considering 
that SE could not advise Mr J or consider the switchs suitability in terms of his 
circumstances, it is questionable whether that contact would have led to a different decision 
by Mr J. SE is not responsible for the subsequent actions of Genwick. 
I would also reiterate what the investigator said about SEs duties. It is not the case, as 
submitted, that SE had any duty to assess the suitability of the switch for Mr J or the 
subsequent investment, his objectives, his attitude to risk or other pension options he may 
have had. It was also not its duty to obtain all the information about his circumstances. Mr Js 
representative appears to have conflated the duties of a party providing regulated advice 
with SEs duties as a pension provider. SE did not have obligations of that nature. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman