DRN-3992314
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly declined to cover his legal expenses in 
relation to his dispute with his local authority about his council tax.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr B had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Aviva from October 2021 to October 2022.
On around 21 June 2022, he claimed under the policy for assistance in connection with legal 
proceedings brought against him by his local authority for failing to pay his council tax bill. 
Aviva initially declined the claim on grounds it fell outside the period of insurance and said it 
was unlikely to be covered in any event. 
Aviva established Mr B had had a previous policy with them. In mid-July they told him they 
were nevertheless declining his claim as the policy didnt provide cover. Although Mr B had 
cover for Consumer Disputes, that didnt include disputes about council tax, which, they 
said, was a system of local taxation collected by local authorities.
Mr B complained about Avivas decision. He felt the claim was covered since the dispute 
was about an agreement for services which the Consumer Disputes section covered. And 
he was unhappy with Avivas handling of the claim, including the time taken, when they knew 
he was being harassed for payment.
Aviva rejected Mr Bs complaint, so he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. To 
put things right he wanted Aviva to cover the claim, apologise and pay compensation for the 
distress he and his family had suffered from visits by debt collectors on the local authoritys 
behalf. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had been right to decline Mr Bs claim as it wasnt covered 
under the policy. And she thought Aviva had dealt with it within reasonable timescales. So, 
she didnt uphold the complaint. Since Mr B didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Bs strength of feeling about his complaint and the underlying dispute with his local 
authority. I may not mention here everything the parties have told us or all the points theyve 
raised. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service 
we provide. Ive looked at everything the parties have said and taken it into account in 
reaching my decision.
Mr Bs unhappy Aviva havent put forward any legal justification as to why they rejected his 
claim. He feels without that, his view about policy cover ought to be accepted. My role is to 
come to an outcome based on the information the parties have provided. I can ask for more 
information if I think I need it. But Im satisfied here that I can come to a decision thats fair 
and reasonable based on the information I have.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect insurers to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly, and not to reject claims unreasonably. Ive considered Mr Bs complaint 
against that background. The starting point is the LEI policy.
Broadly, Aviva agreed to pay Mr Bs reasonable legal costs and expenses, up to a certain 
limit, to, amongst other things, defend a claim for damages or seek other legal remedy in 
relation to the events insured under the policy.
Mr B claimed under the Consumer Disputes event. The cover provided was for:
A dispute regarding an agreement for the sale, purchase or hire of goods or services 
that are not for your business use.
The policy set out examples of the types of agreement intended to be covered by the policy 
such as buying a car from a garage, works carried out by a tradesman and disputes with 
retailers about faulty goods.
The policy excluded cover where Aviva reasonably believed Mr B knew the claim was likely 
to happen when they took out the insurance and where the dispute happened before cover 
began.
From what I understand, Aviva didnt rely on the exclusions to decline the claim. But even if 
Im wrong about that, I dont think Mr Bs claim was covered, as Ill explain.
As a general point, insurance policies dont generally cover everything that might happen. 
Aviva set out the events covered under Mr Bs LEI policy, and Mr B agreed to its terms on 
that basis. Provided the terms are clear, fair and not misleading, its reasonable for Aviva to 
rely on them.
The Consumer Disputes section of Mr Bs policy is clear, fair and not misleading. It applies 
only to agreements Mr B has entered into as a consumer. The examples Aviva give in the 
policy explain the types of contracts covered. They involve agreements Mr B might choose 
to enter into to buy services, amongst other things, for his personal use. 
Ive considered all Mr Bs points that the payment of council tax is made under the terms of 
an agreement between him and the local authority under which he pays for, and the local 
authority provides, services. I dont agree with what hes said. 
Council tax is a tax charged by the local authority in return for services provided to the 
community which Mr B may or may not benefit from personally. He hasnt agreed with the 
local authority to buy or hire the services the local authority provides. The local authority 
provides the services to comply with statute, not under an agreement with Mr B. Broadly, 
theres an obligation on Mr B  not an agreement by him - to pay the tax once the council 
has delivered a bill. And failure to pay can result in action through the criminal courts  as 
happened in Mr Bs case. 
Bearing the above in mind, Im not persuaded the payment of council tax falls within the 
Consumer Disputes section of the LEI policy. So, it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to decline 
cover.
Mr Bs recently mentioned the possibility hes covered under the Property Disputes section of the policy given the harassment hes faced from debt collectors and the possibility of a 
charging order being put on his house in connection with the council tax dispute. Aviva told 
Mr B there was no section of the policy that provided cover. And I dont think that section 
helps him. It only provides cover where property rights are impacted. Whilst I can understand 
the actions of the council may be upsetting, they arent affecting those.
I note Mr Bs disappointment Aviva didnt deal with his claim and complaint more quickly. I 
appreciate his concerns about the action the council was taking. But Aviva explained their 
claims handling process and let Mr B know promptly it was unlikely the policy would provide 
cover - even if initially they declined it on grounds of an exclusion. So, they fairly managed 
Mr Bs expectations from the outset. And they confirmed within around three weeks after that 
they were rejecting the claim because there was no cover. 
Overall, I dont think the time Aviva took to review the claim and confirm their decision on 
cover was unreasonable, even though Mr B didnt accept their decision was fair. And Aviva 
responded to Mr Bs complaint within the timescales required by the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr B will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman