DRN-2609460
The complaint
Mr T has complained that TM Advances Limited lent him an unaffordable loan.
What happened
In January 2019, TM agreed to lend Mr T £2,000. The agreement for the loan states that 
Mr T had to repay the loan in 35 monthly instalments of £189. Mr T hasnt fully repaid the 
loan and as I understand it, theres a balance outstanding.
When Mr T complained to TM about the lending, it didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr T 
referred his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our 
adjudicator thought that TM did enough before agreeing to lend and so didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T disagreed, he said he had a default six months before the loan and he was gambling 
substantial amounts and had TM checked his bank statements it would have seen that he 
couldnt afford the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing without it 
adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
TM has provided evidence to show that it asked Mr T about his monthly income and 
expenses before agreeing to lend. I can see that Mr T declared his monthly income as 
£2,500 and his monthly living costs as £1,150. TM added a further £200 to this declared 
living costs and lent to Mr T based on a monthly living cost of £1,350. I can also see that TM 
searched Mr Ts credit file and verified Mr Ts income by requesting his payslip. The payslip 
showed that Mr T earned £3,000. 
Given that this was Mr Ts first loan with TM and the monthly repayment amount was 
relatively small compared to his declared and verified income, I think TMs checks went far 
enough.
I appreciate that Mr T has said that had TM looked at his bank statements it would have 
seen that he was gambling substantial sums. While I can see from Mr Ts bank statements 
that he was having frequent gambling transactions, there was no requirement for TM to 
request bank statements. The rules didnt prescribe specific checks that a business had to 
carry out before lending.
Mr T has also said that he had defaults on his account and was still repaying one of those 
defaults. I dont think the defaults on the account automatically mean that TM shouldnt have 
lent to Mr T. From what I can see TM reacted to this information and took it into account 
when considering Mr Ts ability to afford the loan.
Also, TM verified Mr Ts income and his income was around £3,128  more than the £2,500 
he had declared. Also, TM took into account Mr Ts credit commitments, 
Mr T declared his credit commitments as £451 and I can see it checked details about Mr Ts 
credit commitments against the credit file. Mr T said he was borrowing the loan to 
consolidate his short-term loan, I can see that TM worked out which loans Mr T could 
consolidate with this loan. This consolidation would mean that Mr Ts monthly debt burden 
was less overall. This essentially would have put Mr T in a better financial position.
I accept that Mr T was gambling but as stated, TM wasnt required to request bank 
statements and Mr T didnt offer the information at the time of the application and given that I 
think TMs checks were reasonable, this isnt something that it would have found out from 
these reasonable checks.
While I appreciate that Mr T will likely be disappointed with my decision, I cant impose a 
duty on TM which the rules dont. In my opinion, TM took reasonable checks to verify some 
of the information Mr T provided and it reacted to the information it saw on Mr Ts credit file. I 
think TM did enough to gain an understanding of Mr Ts circumstances. Overall, the outcome 
of these checks suggests that Mr T, at the time of the loan application, could afford the loan. 
So, I dont think TM was wrong to lend to Mr T in the circumstances.
I understand Mr T has an outstanding balance on the loan and I will remind TM to show 
forbearance when dealing with him and agree a suitable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and I make no award against 
TM Advances Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman