DRN-3322788
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) has declined his claim 
for fire damage to his campervan, which he believes should be covered under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J said he was driving with his son when he noticed flames coming out of the cup holder 
drawer. He pulled over and threw the drawer out of the window. He said the flames caused 
damage to the wiring loom and he made a claim for its repair under his motor insurance 
policy. Highway declined the claim because it said its engineers could see no sign of fire 
damage and instead said the damage appeared to have been caused by electrical failure. It 
said electrical failure wasnt covered under Mr Js policy.
Mr J disagreed and provided photographs of the wiring to show the damage that had been 
caused. Hes adamant there were flames and a fire and doesnt see how Highway can say 
there was an electrical fault without any video footage of what happened. 
Our investigator didnt think Highway needed to take any further action. She recognised Mr J 
disagreed with the engineers report but she didnt think it was unfair for Highway to decline 
his claim based on the evidence it had.
As Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Js policy say that Highway will cover him for loss or damage 
caused by fire. But it goes on to say that wear and tear, mechanical, electrical and computer 
failure, breakdowns or breakages are not covered. So, while hes covered for damage 
caused by fire, I think Highway is only responsible for repairing damage caused by the actual 
fire itself. Any damage caused by electrical failure isnt covered.
Im not an engineer and its not my role to assess what caused the damage to a vehicle. 
Thats rightly a matter for the experts in these situations, like the engineers appointed by 
Highway. My role is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the 
available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to refuse to pay for the repairs.
Highways engineers said they examined the area around the cup holder and 12-volt socket 
and found evidence of damage caused by thermal heating, melting and deformation going 
back towards the rear of the wiring loom. But they said there was no clear evidence of 
damage consistent with flames or fire either under the dashboard or the bulkhead sound 
insulation. The engineers concluded that there was no clear evidence of flame damage and 
the damage was consistent with electrical breakdown. 
Mr J provided photographs taken by an independent garage that showed the damage to the 
wiring system. But that garage didnt provide a view on how the damage was caused and Im 
satisfied from their report that Highways engineers fully inspected the wiring system as part 
of their investigation into the cause of the damage. That report provides a summary of Mr Js 
claim and shows theyve understood what Mr J said about how the damage was caused. 
Theyve given reasons why theyve discounted that view and why they believe the damage is 
consistent with electrical breakdown rather than flame damage. 
Mr J also said there was damage to the seats where flames had spat out at them. Highway 
considered that and discussed it with its engineers in light of the photographs it had taken. 
They said the marks appeared to be caused by wear and tear rather than fire damage.
Mr J is adamant there were flames and the damage was caused by fire. But, on balance and 
in light of the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded by the engineers report that the damage 
was more likely to have been caused by electrical failure. Mr Js policy doesnt cover 
damage caused by electrical failure and so I think Highway has justified its decision not to 
pay for the repairs to Mr Js campervan. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr J experienced. But for the reasons Ive given, I think 
it was reasonable for Highway to decline his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman