DRN-3986008
The complaint
Miss S complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited failed to return her funds after they 
decided to close her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Wirecards decision to close Miss S account hasnt been disputed, so my decision 
will focus on the return of Miss S funds.
Miss S account was closed in early May 2019, and I would have expected the funds 
to be returned to her around that time. Its been disappointing to see that hasnt 
happened despite the time thats passed. And from what Ive seen Wirecards actions 
have contributed greatly to the delay Miss S has experienced. As such its only fair 
they do something to put things right.
Since Miss S case has been with our Service, Wirecard agreed to return Miss S 
funds, pay interest on that amount, and pay Miss S a total of £150 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience their mistakes and delays have caused. However, 
Ive only seen evidence of Miss S being paid £50 of the distress and inconvenience 
award and interest on her funds covering the period up to 23 March 2022.
Im satisfied the award suggested by our Investigator is a fair resolution to this 
complaint. I say this because Miss S is entitled to her money back, and interest 
should be added to this amount to recognise her loss of use of those funds. I also 
consider the total award of £150 recognises the time Miss S has spent trying to      
co-operate with Wirecard and raising her complaint. Therefore, I consider Wirecard 
needs to pay the remainder of the suggested award for Miss S financial and        
non-financial loss to resolve this complaint.
Given the above, Im upholding Miss S complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss S complaint about Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
To put things right, Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should:
Refund the £115.71 balance from Miss S account.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the £115.71 from 23 March 2022 until the date 
the balance is paid to her.
Pay an additional £100 (bringing the total award for non-financial loss to £150) in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by their delays.
Wirecard Card Solutions Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Miss S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Wirecard Card Solutions Limited considers theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss S how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman