DRN-3538294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires
(Birmingham Midshires) changed the way interest is applied to their buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were advised in July 2021 that Birmingham Midshires was changing the way
it applied interest to their mortgage. This was because it was updating its system and to
make it in line with what the other banks within the Group were doing. The changes meant
that monthly interest on the account changed from being 'in arrears' to 'in advance'.
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs W were sent a letter about the migration which included a
statement of their account. A new sub-account had been created for the interest due for the
month of September  this was set up to be interest free. They were then sent an annual
statement in October 2021, which showed their mortgage as well as the sub-account.
Mr and Mrs W complained that the figures on the mortgage statements they received were
confusing. They felt Birmingham Midshires should not have set up a sub-account that they
didnt want. They believe the changes are contrary to the mortgage contract they agreed to
in 2018 when they first took out the mortgage. Mr W was also unhappy because he has a
spreadsheet he uses to monitor the account and the changes had impacted on that.
Birmingham Midshires looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It didnt agree that it couldnt
make changes to their account, but it did find that the figures on the statements Mr and
Mrs W received could have been better explained. As a result, it apologised and offered to
send a separate letter from the mortgage servicing team to explain the figures on the
statements. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy, they wanted Birmingham Midshires to
compensate them for the trouble caused and revert back to the previous system.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ws concerns and suggested compensation of £100
for the stress and inconvenience caused by the statements Mr and Mrs W received. Mr and
Mrs W felt this wasnt enough, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 27 July 2022. Here is an extract of what I said: 
I understand Mr and Mrs W think Birmingham Midshires has actioned the changes above
outside of the mortgage agreement they signed when they first took the mortgage. They
have provided a document called General Mortgage Conditions 2007 which they say
doesnt specify any clauses that would allow Birmingham Midshires to make these changes.
Looking at the document, Section 5.9 says that the lender can change the length of the
intervals interest is charged at any time and any number of times. There is further
information about what might cause them to do this including to follow the practices of other
banks or building societies and to reflect changes to the way the lender looks after a
mortgage. So, Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires was allowed to change the way it applies
interest to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage and I cant ask it to undo this as its a legitimate
business decision.
Im also satisfied Birmingham Midshires gave Mr and Mrs W enough notice of the changes
as they were sent a letter in July 2021 to explain it and the changes didnt take place until
September 2021. But Birmingham Midshires has accepted that the figures Mr and Mrs W
were given in their October 2021 statement could have been confusing. As Ive explained
above, they apologized and arranged for the mortgage servicing team to review Mr and
Mrs Ws account and provide a letter explaining the figures to resolve the matter.
I agree with our investigator that a compensation award is appropriate under the
circumstances. Birmingham Midshires have confirmed that theyre happy to offer £100 in line
with the investigators recommendation. But I think an additional sum of £100 would be
appropriate in the circumstances. I say this because Ive looked at the letter the mortgage
servicing team sent to Mr and Mrs W to rectify the matter, and I still dont think the
explanation is particularly clear.
One of the main reasons for confusion was that Mr and Mrs Ws main mortgage account was
deducted £159.22 and this was then applied to the interest free sub-account. In addition, the
October statement mentions a sum of £796.10 and its not immediately apparent where this
figure came from.
Looking into it myself, Septembers interim statement included the interest charged at
£159.22 for the period of 1 to 10 September, but it didnt include the interest charged
between 11 to 30 September at £318.44, because that wasnt yet due under the previous
way the mortgage was run. £318.44 was due in interest from 11 September until
30 September.
On 11 September Birmingham Midshires added the £318.44 interest that was due for the
rest of September to the main sub-account as youd normally expect on a mortgage  this
shows as an Out transaction. To then ensure no interest was charged on any of the
September interest amount Birmingham Midshires removed the full £477.66 (that is the
£159.22 and £318.44) off the main sub-account  this shows as an In transaction. This
meant the main mortgage sub-account balance reduced by £159.22 on 11 September  a
sum equivalent to that which had been added to the balance between 1 and 10 September
in interest  so that balance was back where it would have been if no interest had been
added in September.
The reference to £796.10 on the October statement is the total of the Out transactions  that
is, the £318.44 interest that was added to the main mortgage sub-account, and the £477.66
that was added to the new interest-free sub-account to open it with the full September
interest as the balance. That £796.10 is in part cancelled out by the £477.66 In transaction,
which is the contra transaction to the new £477.66 balance being set up  in effect the
£477.66 was added to the new interest-free sub-account, and the same amount was
removed from the main mortgage sub-account.
If the £477.66 Out transactions are deducted from the £796.10 In transactions, youre left
with the £318.44 which was the interest charged from 11 September to 30 September. This
is supporting by the total balance (that is, both accounts combined) on 11 September being
£228,983.51, and the total balance on 30 September being £229,301.95  which again is
just the £318.44 interest that was due in the period between those two dates.
I dont think the letter adequately explained this part of the figures and I can see that it would
more likely than not have caused more confusion to Mr and Mrs W when they received it.
So, for this reason, I think Birmingham Midshires should compensate Mr and Mrs W with
£200. Part of this is to settle the confusion caused by the October 2021 statement. The other
part is to acknowledge that the letter they received to rectify the missing explanation on that
statement also didnt fully clarify what the figures meant.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Birmingham Midshires agreed with my provisional decision and made no further comments. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept my findings. They said the terms and conditions of their 
agreement do not allow Birmingham Midshires to change interest charges from in arrears to 
in advance. And they think the intervals mentioned in Section 5.9 set out above have nothing 
to do with this change. 
Ive thought carefully about what theyve said, but I dont agree. An interval refers to a period 
of time between events and in this case, the interval can refer to the period of time within 
which interest payments will be calculated. I think Birmingham Midshires was within its rights 
to change the dates it starts and ends interest calculations for each monthly payment. This 
has allowed them to charge interest in advance instead of in arrears. 
So, I dont think Birmingham Midshires needs to correct this, but Im still of the view that the 
changes should have been communicated clearly and I dont think they were. So, 
Birmingham Midshires should correct this by compensating Mr and Mrs W as set out below.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires should pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for
the stress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay Mr and Mrs W £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman