DRN-4235665
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of a claim 
made under his home emergency policy.
Any references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr M had a problem with his boiler and contacted RSA. An engineer 
attended Mr Ms home. When they left, Mr M believed a temporary repair had been carried 
out and the engineer would be returning with the parts needed to carry out a lasting repair. 
Unfortunately, shortly after this, the boiler broke down again and Mr M says he was told the 
required parts could not be sourced. Mr M says RSA also told him that given the age of the 
boiler, he might not be entitled to any cover under the policy. Unhappy, Mr M raised a 
complaint.
RSA looked into what happened. In the final response letter sent on 1 March 2023, they said 
during the first visit, the engineer told Mr M the part required for the repair could not be 
sourced. But as the boiler had been reinstated when the engineer left, there was no scope 
for any further works to be carried out under the policy. RSA acknowledged there had been 
delays during the course of the claim and offered Mr M £50 in respect of this. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to us. By this time Mr M had 
arranged for the boiler to be replaced so to put things right, he wanted a payment for the 
boiler or return of several years premiums. One of our investigators looked at what had 
happened. She said there was some confusion after the first visit. Whilst RSA said the 
heating and hot water were reinstated after the first engineers visit, there was also a record 
of a conversation with the engineer who said the boiler was beyond economic repair 
because the parts could not be sourced. 
On balance, she felt the boiler couldnt have been repaired so a fair outcome would be for   
Mr M to receive £150 under the Boiler Replacement Contribution section of the policy, plus 
8% simple interest. She also said RSA should increase the compensation payment to £300, 
to recognise the impact their handling of this matter had on Mr M, given they knew he was 
very unwell at the time of the claim.
RSA didnt agree with our investigator, so this case has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering the claim Mr M made. Both sides are aware that Mr M made his 
claim under the home emergency policy. When Mr M notified RSA that his boiler wasnt 
working, RSA arranged for an engineer to attend the property, albeit there was a delay in 
arranging this which Ill address later. However here, I think its helpful to set out the intention 
of the policy was to carry out a temporary repair. If that wasnt possible, the Boiler 
Replacement Contribution part of the policy might come into force, subject to remaining 
policy terms. 
Ive considered both the job report form and customer job completion forms RSA provided, 
but neither of these forms set out any details about what, if any, repairs, or actions the 
engineer took when he attended Mr Ms home. 
So, Ive reflected on Mr Ms understanding of the situation and on the call notes between 
RSA and the engineer. These notes were a record of a conversation in February 2022, a 
couple of months after the first visit to Mr Ms home. The notes said, They confirmed they 
attended and found cracked PCB casing and this part couldnt be sourced, boiler BER. 
Ive been presented with two sets of evidence from RSA about the engineers visit to Mr Ms 
home in December 2022. One was two blank job sheets and the other is a note from a 
telephone conversation. These two accounts do not match, so my role here is to decide 
which I consider most persuasive. Given there is a lack of information in the job sheets, I find 
myself most persuaded by the information contained in the record of the conversation with 
the engineer. 
I say this because, in this conversation, there is an account of the faulty part, that it was no 
longer available, and why this meant Mr Ms boiler was beyond economic repair. Given the 
detail captured in this conversation, I think its likely that if a repair of any kind was carried 
out by the engineer, it would have been reflected and noted in this conversation. 
RSA challenged our investigator when she reached the same conclusion. They said Mr M 
had access to heating and hot water after the first visit. This indicated a temporary repair had 
been carried out which is what the policy was required to do, so he wouldnt be eligible for 
the Boiler Replacement Contribution. 
Mr M has also said he thought a repair had been carried out. However, as our investigator 
said, theres no documentary evidence of a repair carried out. Nobody has been able to 
clarify or explain how the boiler came to be working or reinstated when the engineer left     
Mr Ms home. And if RSA was intending to rely on a temporary repair being carried out, in 
line with the policy terms, it would be for them to show this took place. But this hasnt been 
demonstrated. In the absence of any evidence to show a temporary repair took place, I cant 
conclude one was carried out. 
Ive reached a decision I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In the absence of any evidence showing a temporary repair was carried out, Im satisfied 
RSAs own notes from a telephone conversation with their engineer are sufficient to lead me 
to the conclusion the boiler was beyond economic repair and was identified as such during 
the first visit. 
Mr M says he should have several years premiums refunded or for a payment towards the 
replacement boiler. Whilst I appreciate there was some confusion about the age of the 
boiler, which meant potentially Mr M wasnt entitled to a contribution, this was later clarified. 
But Mr M has had the benefit of the cover, so Im not going to ask RSA to refund his 
premiums.
The paperwork provided indicated Mr Ms boiler was installed in 2011. RSA made a call to 
the manufacturer who confirmed it was no more than 13 years old. The Boiler Replacement 
Contribution part of Mr Ms policy says that for boilers this age, the contribution is £150. 
Given I am persuaded Mr Ms original boiler was determined to be beyond economic repair by their engineer, RSA should pay this upon Mr M providing proof he has purchased a new 
boiler. 
RSA should also pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the first visit in 
December 2022, as there isnt any persuasive evidence to show a repair was carried out at 
this time. 
Ill turn now to RSAs handling of the claim. They already offered Mr M £50 for the delays in 
sending an engineer out. Mr M was very unwell, and RSA were fully aware of this, and that 
his illness meant he needed to be in a warm environment. He was considered a priority 
customer so there should not have been a delay in sending an engineer. I consider this 
caused Mr M additional and unnecessary worry at was already a difficult time. This was 
further compounded by the confusion around the state of Mr Ms boiler and what steps, if 
any, were being taken to help him. An example of this was sending out the second engineer 
when the first had already visited and concluded the boiler was beyond economic repair. 
I dont consider the £50 offered by RSA to be sufficient in the circumstances. I require RSA 
to pay a total compensation payment of £300 to Mr M, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience its actions had on him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
to:
Pay Mr M £150 towards the cost of a replacement boiler.
Add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount, calculated from the date of the first 
engineers visit in December 2022, until the date of settlement.
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman