DRN-2175047
The complaint
Mr. C complains on behalf of his son Mr. C (1) that a car Mr. C (1) acquired through a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) is faulty. Mr. C (1) would like to 
reject the car, have a refund of his monthly and insurance payments from March 2019. And 
ensure there is no adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr. C says Mr. C (1)  took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMF in December 2018 for a 
nine-year-old car with over 100,000 mileage on the clock. 
Mr. C says there were problems with the engine which Mr. C (1) raised with BMF in March 
2019. He says at BMFs request Mr. C (1) had the car inspected in April 2019.  The 
inspection concluded there was a serious internal failure with the engine which had been 
developing over time.
Mr. C says BMF didnt accept this and arranged its own independent investigation which 
concluded there was a problem with the engine. But this wouldnt have been present at the 
point of sale and was likely due to general age-related wear and tear possibly  compounded 
by low oil levels. Mr. C says Mr. C (1) he didnt accept this.
BMF said the independent report said there was no evidence of a point of sale issue. If there 
had been the audible noise with the engine would have been present at the point of sale and 
any underlaying mechanical issues would have shown up sooner.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found there was a problem with the engine 
but was persuaded by the independent report that there was no fault present at the point of 
sale.
BMF accepted this view but Mr. C (1) didnt. He said the knocking noise only started during 
the last miles driven. He felt the engine should have lasted a lot longer than it did particularly 
for the make of car. He said the oil levels were correct and were displayed electronically.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. C (1) feels strongly about this and I do appreciate that. Mr. C has explained to us that 
having a car he couldnt use but was still paying for caused Mr. C (1) a considerable amount 
of anxiety and I dont doubt that. I understand Mr. C (1) has now voluntarily terminated his 
agreement with BMF but has an outstanding debt owing on the finance agreement.
Given how Mr. C (1) feels I appreciate his is going to be disappointed that Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator.
Theres no dispute that there was an engine problem with Mr. C (1)s car. The car has been 
inspected twice and the main issue seems to be the difference between these two reports. 
Mr. C (1) believes the inspection he arranged confirms the engine problem had been present 
for some time. BMF feels its report finds no point of sale issue.
I am conscious Mr. C (1) took out an agreement for a nine-year-old car with over 100,000 
miles on the clock when he got it. He might reasonably expect more wear, tear and repair 
issues with a used car than for example with a new one. 
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. And if issues 
arise within six months, we usually say its up to the business to show if any fault was present 
or developing at the point of sale. And if so, we would usually expect the business to take 
responsibility for any fault.
I am not entirely clear when Mr. C (1d) first experienced a problem with the car. But as he 
complained to BMF in March 2019 having only got the car in December 2018 then clearly 
the issues arose within six months.
BMF arranged its own independent inspection which is what I would have expected it to do 
even though Mr. C (1) had already had the car inspected.
I have read and considered both reports carefully. Both agree there is internal engine failure 
resulting in an audible knocking noise.
The report Mr. C (1) arranged found fluid levels to be fine. It also found a large amount of 
debris in the filter and in the engine oil. It felt the fault had been present for a period.
The independent report commissioned by BMF along with subsequent additional comments 
found the problem to be worn engine bearings likely to be caused by general wear and tear 
or a lubrication issue rather than a manufacturing defect. It pointed to car passed its MOT in 
July 2018. And that  Mr. C (1) had driven over approximately 9,000 miles which he wouldnt 
have been able to do had the car had an underlying manufacturing defect at the point of 
sale.
I appreciate Mr. C (1) feels the independent inspector should have stripped out the engine 
but didnt. I dont think thats unreasonable since the report was conclusive. Had more 
investigations been required I would have expected them to be carried out. I didnt feel from 
reading the report that any further investigation was needed.
I also appreciate Mr. C (1)s comments that he didnt need to use a dipstick to check oil level 
as the level was displayed electronically. Also, that his report stated the fluid levels were 
correct. But the independent inspector has commented that low fuel levels could have 
occurred at any point. So, I would agree that just because there wasnt a problem with this 
when Mr. C (1) had his car inspected it doesnt mean the oil levels were always correct.
The independent inspection was carried out by a qualified engineer, it is a more detailed 
report than that provided by Mr. C (1). I am persuaded by the information in that report, the 
relatively high mileage Mr. C (1) drove in a relatively short period of time and the MOT 
history which doesnt indicate a problem with the engine that there was no fault present or 
developing at the point of sale for which BMF is liable for.
So on that basis I cant reasonably expect BMF to refund any payments Mr C(1) has made 
or to make any alterations to his credit file.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman