DRN-2281287
The complaint
Mr P says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans that Novaloans provided to Mr P in March 2019. 
Mr Ps first loan was for £300. This was to be repaid in four monthly instalments, the highest 
being £119.40. Mr P repaid this loan two weeks later and then borrowed £500. Loan two was 
to be repaid in six monthly instalments, the highest being £166.26. Mr P told Novaloans that 
he was unable to repay this loan and a repayment plan was agreed. As far as I can see, 
theres a balance still outstanding for loan two. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint and thought both loans shouldnt have been given. 
Novaloans disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Novaloans was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Novaloans asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr P told Novaloans that his monthly income was £2,100. He said his monthly 
outgoings were between £1,330 and £1,485. 
As our adjudicator explained, Novaloans checks for loan one would most likely have shown 
that Mr P was having trouble managing his money. This is because when Mr P applied for 
loan one, Novaloans check on his credit file showed that he had three outstanding loans 
with other short-term lenders. 
Novaloans said it thought its credit checks showed that Mr Ps financial position was 
improving. This may have been so, but they also found the three other outstanding loans. 
Two of these had been opened within the past three months. I think Novaloans should have 
considered that these may be signs that Mr P was still having trouble managing his money. 
So I think Novaloans should have realised that Mr P would most likely be unable to 
sustainably repay loan one, or his subsequent loan. And so I think it was wrong to approve 
them.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr P, I think Novaloans should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset this refund against any balance of principal still outstanding for loan two and 
either pay the remainder to Mr P or, if an amount remains owing, agree an affordable 
repayment plan to clear the balance. 
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest. Novaloans 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require 
Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) to pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman