DRN-1299504
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS) wants him to pay at 
once the shortfall between the amount his insurance company paid out when his car was 
stolen, and the balance he still owed BMW FS under his hire-purchase agreement.  
What happened
In April 2018, Mr F entered into a hire-purchase agreement for a new motor car with BMW 
FS. The cash price of the car was £67,850. After paying a cash deposit and part exchanging 
his existing car, Mr F agreed to pay instalments of £753.33 a month for 48 months, with an 
optional final payment of £26,953.09 if he then wished to keep the car. The finance charge 
under the agreement was 0% per annum.
In May 2019, the car was stolen during the night from outside Mr Fs house. Video footage 
from a neighbours security camera showed thieves using a relay device to boost the signal 
from his car key inside the house. This enabled them to open the car door and drive it away.
The car wasnt recovered, and Mr F claimed on his motor insurance policy. Mr Fs insurer 
paid out £43,000, less his excess of £750, which it said was the value of the car. It paid this 
amount to BMW FS as the owner of the car. However, BMW FS said this was less than the 
payments Mr F was contracted to pay it under his hire-purchase agreement. It said Mr F 
must pay it the difference of £9,569.58 immediately.
Mr F objected. First of all he said the thieves had been able to steal the car so easily 
because of a flaw in the cars security system, for which BMW FS should take responsibility. 
He said the security system had been redesigned on later models, but the manufacturer 
hadnt taken steps to modify the security system on earlier models.
Secondly, Mr F said there was nothing in the hire-purchase agreement which said that any 
such shortfall had to be paid immediately it arose. He thought it should be paid at the end of 
the 48 month term of the agreement. BMW FS said that if Mr F didnt pay the shortfall 
immediately, or over a period of 12 months, this would have a negative effect on his credit 
rating.
BMW FS said Mr F should refer any complaint about the cars security system to the 
manufacturer of the car. And it said that the terms of the hire-purchase agreement required 
him to pay any shortfall to it if the car was written off. 
Our investigator thought it wasnt very clear under the terms of the hire-purchase agreement 
how soon any such shortfall should be paid. However, having spoken to BMW FS, he could 
understand why it wouldnt be willing for money to remain outstanding until the end of the 
agreed term as there was no longer any asset in existence to secure payments.Although BMW FS was an associated company of the manufacturer, the investigator thought 
it wasnt reasonable to hold BMW FS responsible for the way the car was manufactured, and 
this was something that Mr F should take up with the manufacturer directly.
Mr F had also asked that BMW FS be required to reimburse him for travel costs, and other 
incidental costs, that he had incurred consequent on the theft. The investigator said that as 
he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest BMW FS was at fault in any way, he couldnt ask it 
to refund these costs.
The investigator did think it was reasonable for BMW FS to allow Mr F more time to pay the 
shortfall. It had said BMW FS was willing to agree to a payment plan over 15 months, which 
he thought was reasonable. If Mr F required more time than this, BMW FS would refer the 
debt to a collection company, which would go through Mr Fs income and expenditure with 
him to come to an acceptable arrangement.
Mr F responded to set out full details of all the additional expenses he had incurred following 
the theft. He said the result was BMW FS owed him £7,836.67, rather than him owing 
anything to BMW FS.
He also said, in summary, that:
his complaint was against both BMW FS and the manufacturer of the car. He thought 
the manufacturer should have recalled the car when it became apparent that its 
security was defective;
part of the reason for the shortfall was that the car was easily stolen, and this was 
because the faulty design hadnt been rectified by the manufacturer; 
BMW FSs offer to accept payment over 15 months was withdrawn after his insurer 
paid his claim. In any event, he wasnt willing to accept it now as he didnt think it was 
fair or part of his contract; 
he held BMW FS responsible under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) for 
supplying a defective product to him under the hire-purchase agreement;
BMW FS shouldnt have been chasing him for payment while his complaint was 
being considered by this service; and
because BMW FS had registered late payment of the shortfall against his credit 
record, his previous unblemished credit record had been adversely affected. The 
result was that he had now paid the balance of the shortfall to BMW FS.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Fs car was stolen, he claimed on his motor insurance policy. However the amount 
his insurer paid out was less than the contracted payments he owed BMW FS under the 
terms of his hire-purchase agreement. The shortfall was nearly £9,600.
The documents presented to Mr F by BMW FS at the outset made it clear that he would 
have to pay any such shortfall to BMW FS. Before he entered into the hire-purchase 
agreement he received a document headed Explanation Agreement. Under the heading 
Your obligation to insure the vehicle it said:
If the vehicle is written off, you must claim under your insurance policy and ask your 
insurers to pay us the sums payable to us under the credit agreement. You will be liable for 
any shortfall i.e. the difference between the money we receive from the insurer and the amount outstanding under the agreement which will be reduced by a rebate as required by 
law.
The hire-purchase agreement itself contains the following provisions:
"5. Insurance of the Vehicle
(e) If the Vehicle is declared a total loss by the insurer or is stolen:
i.
ii.you must claim under your vehicle insurance policy for the loss of the Vehicle and 
ask the insurer to pay us the insurance money for the Vehicle.
iii.
iv.You will need to pay us: the Total Amount Payable under this agreement, shown 
under Key Financial Information, plus any other sums which have become payable 
under this agreement, less: (a) the Advance Payment and Repayments you have 
paid: (b) the Option to Purchase Fee: and (c) any rebate to which you are entitled 
when you make a payment in early settlement under the Consumer Credit Act. You 
must continue to pay the Repayments until we receive full payment of these sums.
 
If the insurer does not pay these sums in full or at all, you must pay us the shortfall. We will 
pay you any surplus we receive over the sums due to us.
I have set out the relevant wording in full because I think it makes it clear what is to happen 
in the event of an insurance claim which results in a total loss. In that event, BMW FS is to 
receive whatever is then unpaid of the Total Amount Payable under the agreement.
It is to receive this at the time of the loss  there is no suggestion that it is only payable at 
the end of the fixed term of the agreement. And until this is paid, the consumer is to continue 
to pay the monthly Repayments.
The amount payable is to be reduced by any rebate for early settlement due under the 
Consumer Credit Act. But no such rebate was due in Mr Fs case as the finance charge 
under the agreement was 0% per annum.
So I conclude that once it became apparent that the insurance proceeds were insufficient to 
clear the Total Amount Payable under the agreement, BMW FS was entitled to require Mr F 
to pay it the shortfall in one amount. Until he did so, he had to continue making monthly 
repayments. When he failed to do so, it was entitled to record this failure on his credit record.
BMW FS was at various times willing to allow Mr F to spread payment over a longer period 
of up to 15 months. But this was a concession on its part. Mr F says he has now paid the 
shortfall to BMW FS in full. So I dont need to comment further on this aspect.
Mr F complains that BMW FS shouldnt have continued to chase him to pay the shortfall 
while this service was considering his complaint. This isnt something that we can require a 
business to do. If we later decide that what it did was wrong, we can require a business to 
put this right. But this doesnt arise in this case.
Aside from when he should have had to pay the shortfall, Mr F says he shouldnt owe it in 
the first place because it only arose because of the faulty security system on his car which 
enabled the theft to take place. He blames both the manufacturer and BMW FS for this.First of all, I should say that we cannot consider any complaint against the manufacturer of 
the car because it doesnt come within our jurisdiction. We can only consider complaints 
against financial businesses such as BMW FS which are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Mr F says that when it became apparent that his car was susceptible to this 
type of theft, the manufacturer should have taken steps to recall the car and amend its 
security system. But this isnt something I can comment on.
It is true, as Mr F says, that BMW FS had an obligation under CRA 2015, when it supplied 
the car under the hire-purchase agreement in April 2018, to ensure it was of satisfactory 
quality, and was fit for purpose at that point in time. He says the fact that it was so easily 
stolen means it failed in this obligation.
It appears that this is a problem that, certainly in early 2018, affected the majority of cars 
supplied with a keyless entry system. Thieves discovered that by using a relay device which 
was easily obtainable online, they could bypass the security system and steal the car.
The keyless entry system was often supplied with prestige cars, such as Mr Fs, which were 
attractive to thieves. So they have suffered particularly from this type of theft.
Manufacturers have started to design keyless entry systems that are more resistant to 
attack. And devices, such as steering wheel locks and Faraday boxes to store car keys, are 
available to owners to make theft more difficult.
Our rules require me to decide Mr Fs complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable having regard to  amongst other things  relevant law.
This is an issue that affects many different manufacturers and models of cars. I am not 
aware of any court decision which has held the supplier of a car responsible under CRA 
2015 for the theft of a car supplied with a keyless entry system, on the grounds that the car 
was for that reason of unsatisfactory quality or not fit for purpose.
So Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold BMW FS 
responsible under CRA 2015 for the theft of the car, and for the resulting shortfall and other 
expenses Mr F has suffered.
However, my decision isnt binding on Mr F if he doesnt accept it. And if he does not do so, 
our consideration of his complaint wont prevent him from raising the same arguments in 
court proceedings, should he wish to do so.
All in all, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont require BMW FS to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman