DRN-3026287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that GE Money Home Finance Limited (trading as First National 
Bank) (GE Money) unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought two timeshare memberships from a business, I will call C, in June 
2000 and July 2004. The cost in 2000 was £4,859 and in 2004 it was £9,486. These were 
funded by loans from GE Money with a deposit of £1,750 being paid by Mr and Mrs D in 
2004.  GE Money says that the proceeds of the second loan werent paid to C, but to a 
different business, CR, that was said to act as a stakeholder.
Mr and Mrs D said that when they took out the timeshare C was guilty of misrepresentation 
and they were subjected to pressure. They say they were told the timeshares would be an 
investment, but they have been unable to sell them. So Mr and Mrs D said that C made 
misrepresentations to them at the time of sale. They say that had they known what C said 
wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
In April 2017 Mr and Mrs D, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It responded 
to say the complaint had been brought too late. It said that as the sale took place many 
years before the complaint that meant the complaint had been brought too late under the 
relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan 
proceeds for the second loan had been paid to CR and not C, so it didnt think there were 
the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, so 
they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked 
at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated the 
enactment of that provision.
GE initially raised a concern about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, but I 
understand they have withdrawn that objection for the purposes of this decision. Mr and Mrs 
Ds representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had been brought in 
time.  So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs D, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs D to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement for the second 
loan in this case, as the supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a 
different business, CR, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim under s.75 CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the service 
C and the business that took the payment CR. But Ive not gone on to make a finding on that 
point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place for the claim, I think GE 
Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs D said that C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could 
show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im 
not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs D may have to bring these claims has expired under 
the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted 
fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ds claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs D brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs D had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ds case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
June 2000 and July 2004. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, 
they say, on the misrepresentations of C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been 
made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a 
loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on June 2000 and July 2004, so 
Mr and Mrs D had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until June 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the 
LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
Mr and Mrs Ds arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. Mr and Mrs Ds representatives] made several arguments why they dont 
think our investigator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in term.
They argue that under s.11A LA, time didnt start to run for limitation purposes for Mr and 
Mrs D until they first had knowledge that they could start proceeding against GE Money. This 
provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and applies to an action for 
damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to 
actions that arise out of products and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it 
assists Mr and Mrs D. Neither in my view does s.14 LA, which simply defines what is meant 
by date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Im not persuaded that s. 14A LA applies to Mr and Mrs Ds claim. That provision provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mr and Mrs D purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which s.14A LA could apply.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say that, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives are 
referring to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business 
about a regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
have considered that legislation.
Although our investigator addressed the issue of 140A LA I cannot see that this has been 
raised by Mr and Mrs D or their representatives so I will not comment save to say I see 
nothing wrong with the investigators conclusions. 
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs D may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs D might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against GE Money 
Home Finance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman