DRN-3907083
The complaint
Mr R complains that MS Amlin Insurance SE, in respect of his claim for damage to his 
commercial/tenanted property, has applied a policy limit of £5,000 to the claim.
What happened
Mr R owns a property which is a building which consists of two commercial premises and 
four residential flats. He had a policy with Amlin, which expired in early August 2021. In late 
August 2021, he received notification from the police that the property had been raided 
under a search warrant. The police found that all four flats had been used for the cultivation 
of cannabis.
Substantial damage was found, owing to the installation of equipment, such as holes in the 
walls and the chimney breast for ducting and wirings, nail and screw holes in ceilings. Also 
the electrics had been tampered with.
Mr R initially made a claim to his insurer at the time of the discovery of the damage. 
However that insurer said that the damage likely occurred before he had taken out the policy 
with it.
Amlin subsequently agreed to consider the claim. It found that the damage was malicious, 
but not accidental. As the policy limit for malicious damage caused by a tenant is £5,000 it 
paid Mr R that amount.
Mr R disputed this, as it will cost substantially more than £5,000 to repair the damage. On 
his behalf his brokers set out to Amlin that firstly he should have been advised about the 
relevant policy limit when buying the policy  it doesnt appear on the policy schedule but is 
contained in the middle of a100 page policy booklet. They further said that the damage 
wasnt malicious, in that the tenants didnt cause the damage deliberately with an intention to 
do harm. So they said it should be classed as accidental damage for which there is only the 
limit for the whole policy. Lastly they said that the actions could have taken place at different 
intervals over a period of time so queried whether more than one £5,000 limit should apply to 
different claims over a period of time.
Amlin rejected those arguments and said there was one claim for malicious damage and it 
was not accidental damage.
On referral, to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator ultimately found that 
Amlins decision concerning the claim was reasonable. However he said that Amlins delay 
in accepting liability for the claim caused distress and inconvenience, for which it should pay 
£150 compensation.
Amlin agreed to this outcome. Mr R did not, and pointed out that the damage was to all four 
flats and that if it had taken a week (as the Investigator suggested) then this was damage on 
several different days. He said that there is no definition within the wording of the policy so 
as to restrict the damage conducted in one single event over a period of time to limit it to the 
one policy limit.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
awareness of the £5,000 limit
Mr R says he wasnt made aware of the policy limit for claims for malicious damage by 
tenants. This wasnt drawn his attention and only appears within the lengthy policy booklet.
From Amlins point of view, I think its entitled to apply such policy limits as it thinks fit, and 
which it is prepared to cover the risk for. The policy was sold to Mr R by a broker. So if there 
were any important terms in the policy that Mr R should have been made aware of, it was up 
to the broker, rather than Amlin, to draw his attention to them. So if Mr R has a complaint 
about the way the policy was sold, he should direct that complaint to his broker. I believe he 
has already done that.
single claim
Firstly I understand that we dont know precisely what happened, over what period of time 
and who was responsible. In deciding whats fair and reasonable the standard of proof is the 
balance of probabilities i.e. what, in my view is most likely to have happened. On the 
question of Amlin treating this as one single claim of malicious damage, the terms of the 
policy state Amlin will not cover any amount exceeding £5,000 for any one loss by malicious 
damage caused by the tenant.
Mr R argues that the damage didnt all take place at once, he points out that all four flats 
were damaged. He believes it is likely that the damage took place over a period of time, so 
several claims can be made, each with a policy limit of £5,000.
I would observe that the policy covers the whole building and isnt broken down into the 
different flats/ commercial premises. I think that damage caused by the setting up of a 
cannabis farm was likely to have been pre-planned. I understand that two of the tenants 
were arrested though it isnt known whether they have been charged. Nevertheless I believe 
it is most likely that it was the tenants who set up the equipment and caused all the damage 
to enable the equipment to be used to cultivate cannabis. 
I think that the setting up of the cannabis farm even if it took several days was part of an 
overall intention to cause damage to the property in order to carry out a criminal activity. The 
policy doesnt have specific wording for this, but it cant cover every contingency. Generally 
our approach is that if a tenant causes malicious damage in several rooms unless it can 
clearly be separated as having occurred at different times for different reasons we would still 
regard that as one claim. So I think that Amlin did act reasonably in treating this as one loss 
under the terms of the policy, and paying the policy limit for that claim.
accidental damage
Mr Rs broker has suggested that the claim could be accidental damage, on the basis that 
the tenant was arguably adapting the premises for their own purposes. So the damage 
wasnt deliberate. 
Theres no definition of accidental in the policy. In the absence of such a definition we 
usually say it is damage which is unforeseen and unintentional. Ive considered this in the context of this claim, but I have seen no evidence to suggest that any other damage took 
place that wasnt the direct result of the property being altered to carry out a criminal activity 
so was intentional rather than accidental.
loss of rent
Mr R has also asked if he could make a claim for loss of rent. As I understand it, the rent 
was paid up until at least the end of the policy period. As far as I can see there is no 
separate cover under the property damage section for loss of rent under the policy. There is 
cover under the Business Interruption part of the policy but in the schedule this cover is 
noted as not insured.
Mr R enquired where this was claimable from his new insurer. As I dont know the terms of 
that policy he will have to take it up with them.
compensation
Initially Amlin disputed liability as the policy had expired before the damage was discovered. 
I believe it left it to the new insurer to investigate before it would consider liability. As a result 
it was in December 2021, some four months after the claim, before it started its investigation.
I dont think Amin was responsible for the delay in it starting its investigation, as it was 
reasonable in my view for it to wait until the other insurer established when the damage likely 
took place. But Mr R was left in a situation where both insurers denied liability and referred 
him to the other insurer. This caused Mr R a fair degree of inconvenience for which I think it 
should pay £150. I believe it has paid this but if it hasnt it should do so if Mr R accepts this 
decision.
Putting things right
Amlin should pay £150 compensation (if it hasnt already done so).
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require MS Amlin Insurance SE to provide the redress set out 
above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman