DRN-2488500
The complaint
Ms R complains that her pet insurer, Animal Friends Insurance whose policy is underwritten 
by Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited, initially declined her claim for an 
operation on her pet dog and then placed an unfair exclusion on future claims.  
 What happened
Ms Rs policy started in October 2018. Her dog developed a lump under its leg which she 
said caused no difficulties and the vet said didnt need to be removed as it was probably a 
lipoma. Ms R told her insurer about this in February 2019 and said she was advised of a 365 
day treatment limit as it occurred prior to the start of a lifetime policy. Ms R said she queried 
the implications for a claim in future and was assured one could be made within 365 days.
Ms R said the lump changed and was removed by an operation in December 2019. Ms R 
said Red Sands applied a wider exclusion clause for any associated claim in the future. Ms 
R complained and Red Sands amended the exclusion date to allow payment towards the 
treatment, but otherwise maintained the exclusion clause. 
Ms R said the initial decline of her claim caused her short-term financial difficulty, but her 
main concern is with the blanket exclusion for any future lumps. She said her vet had 
confirmed to the insurer that the lump wasnt malignant and as it was present when the 
policy started the exclusion should be limited to similar growths.
Ms R upgraded the policy in October 2019 and the exclusion clause added by Red Sands 
was for all claims with respect to Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions 
with effect from 16 October 2019. Red Sands said the lump was noticed by Ms R some 
months before the policy started and it initially declined her claim as the policy doesnt cover 
pre-existing conditions. It said the policy allowed it to apply the exclusion clause where there 
were any clinical signs of a condition before the commencement of the policy.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the claim arose while Ms 
R held a time-limited policy. She said the exclusion clause Red Sands applied is unfair as 
Ms R had given an accurate account of her dogs medical history when upgrading to a 
lifetime policy. The investigator said it would be unreasonable for Red Sands to amend cover 
every time new information emerges regarding the dogs medical history. She said Red 
Sands should remove the exclusion for Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting 
Conditions and re-apply the exclusion for Lipomas and Resulting Conditions.  
 
Red Sands disagreed with the investigator saying the slow growing lump was first noted in 
February 2019, whilst Ms Rs dog was insured under the time-limited policy. It said there was 
no diagnosis at this point, as the vet thought this to be a lipoma and it applied an exclusion 
for lipomas and resulting conditions. Red Sands said that the decision to remove the lump 
and the operation took place when the extended cover was in place. It said the lump was 
diagnosed as a subcutaneous mass cell tumour and as this was present when the time-
limited policy started the terms and conditions allow an exclusion clause to be applied from 
the next renewal following the onset of the condition. It said that as no lipoma was 
diagnosed, it wouldnt amend the exclusion to lipomas and resulting conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands applied an exclusion to Ms Rs policy from October 2019 and said this is the 
correct exclusion for Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions applied in 
accordance with the policy terms and underwriting criteria.
I can understand why Red Sands would wish to protect itself against a repetition of a similar 
condition for Ms Rs dog and that it felt the condition was in existence when the lifetime 
policy commenced. There is some provision within the terms and conditions of the policy for 
the application of an exclusion for similar claims on related conditions and Red Sands said it 
is allowed to apply this in the circumstances of Ms Rs claim.
I have looked at the terms of Ms Rs policy and the fairness or otherwise of the exclusion 
clause that was applied to Ms Rs policy.  
From the records that Ive seen the lump was first noted by Red Sands in February 2019, 
whilst Ms R held a time limited policy. But Ms R couldnt benefit from the policy at the time as 
her vet hadnt made a diagnosis or recommended any treatment. Ms R was just monitoring 
the lump which the vet thought was a lipoma.
An exclusion for lipomas and resulting conditions was applied following Ms Rs call with the 
insurer. There was relatively little information available about Ms Rs dogs condition at this 
stage. When Ms R upgraded her policy to a lifetime policy, it appears that she disclosed all 
information at the time and the lump was still considered to be a lipoma. 
I agree with the investigator that Ms R gave as much information as she could on application 
for the lifetime policy. This was by its nature limited. However, it was open to Red Sands to 
request more information if it wished. Not long after, in December 2019, Ms R took her dog 
to the vet and the lump had changed, and the vet recommended surgical removal. 
Subsequent tests confirmed the lump to be a mass cell tumour. 
The time-limited policy shows that an exclusion was applicable from the next renewal of the 
policy following the onset of the condition. Red Sands considers the correct exclusion was 
applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, I havent found 
that the exclusion can be transferred in an amended format to a new and different policy. 
Ms R hadnt benefitted from her previous policy when a more benign view was taken of her 
dogs lump. There was no cover available to Ms R until December 2019 when her vet 
determined that treatment was required and so that was the point when she could first claim 
for treatment. Our service takes the view that its unfair to start the date of a condition from 
the point it was first noticed, and instead this should be from when a policyholder can 
reasonably start claiming for treatment. It follows that I dont think it was reasonable for Red 
Sands to apply the exclusion to the commencement of the lifetime policy.
Red Sands accepted the risk of what was thought to be a lipoma, and the risk that this might 
require treatment in the future and its underwriting guidelines only warrant an exclusion for 
lipomas in respect of this condition. It was open to Red Sands to apply different or additional 
exclusions when the policy commenced. It didnt and my view is that it is unfair to add the 
exclusion for treatment for mass cell tumour treatment from October 2019 when the policy 
changed. In conclusion, I think Red Sands should either amend the exclusion clause applied to the 
lifetime policy or remove it completely. The diagnosis of a mass cell tumour which Red 
Sands is relying on to add this exclusion wasnt made until December 2019 when Ms Rs 
lifetime policy was in force and I think it is unfair to add this exclusion from October 2019.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to either amend the exclusion clause for 
growths, tumours, cancers and resulting conditions or completely remove the clause.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman