DRN-3125621
The complaint
Miss B complained that Paymentshield Ltd (Payment Shield) failed to arrange the renewal 
on her home insurance policy which resulted in her not being insured.  
What happened
Miss B said she received an email from Payment Shield stating, congratulations your policy 
has been renewed' please click the link to review your documents. As she thought her 
policy had been renewed, she didnt do anything further.
Miss B later made a claim to her insurer for a leak to her shower, but her insurer said she 
wasnt covered by them and hadnt been since the renewal date when it didnt offer to renew 
her cover. Payment Shield didnt tell her, and it didnt offer her cover through another insurer. 
Miss B said the communications from Payment Shield were misleading. She said she 
became very worried, as she had tried to get insurance elsewhere but couldnt.
Miss B said, As far as she was concerned she had the policy set up for auto renew with the 
same insurer. She said she wants her insurance re-instated. Miss B complained to Payment 
Shield as she said it wasnt made clear to her that her policy had been cancelled. She said 
the documentation from Payment Shield was misleading and as a result she hadnt had 
insurance on her property as the insurer didnt offer to continue the policy at the renewal 
date.
Payment Shield upheld Miss Bs complaint and offered £100 in compensation. It agreed that 
the heading of the email that was sent did imply that the renewal had been offered. 
However, it said it couldnt renew Miss Bs policy itself, as it was the insurers role to decide 
whether to decline or accept policies. Payment Shield apologised and said its taking steps 
to improve the messages it sends to customers.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Payment Shields offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. She said, had Miss B clicked on the online link she 
was sent with the email, she would have seen her insurer was no longer willing to offer 
insurance to her. Miss B didnt accept this view, she felt she had been misled and asked for 
the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2021. I said:
Before I look at the case, I want to be clear that its the insurers decision whether to offer 
insurance or not, therefore, in this complaint I can only consider Payment Shields actions as 
an administrator of the policy. Our investigator has already explained this to Miss B in more 
detail.
In this case, I am reviewing whether Payment Shield has provided the appropriate insurance 
documents and communications to Miss B in setting up the insurance policy. It goes without 
saying, the communications it sends should be clear and not misleading. 
I have looked at the exact wording of the email that was sent out by Payment Shield at the 
normal time the renewal was due, it read:
Happy Anniversary! Your Buildings & Contents Insurance anniversary is just around 
the corner and were happy to let you know, your renewal documents have been 
delivered to your online account and are now available for you to look over and 
download. Please login to your account as soon as possible, so you can check youre 
happy with all the information shown.
The email doesnt suggest for a moment that Miss B needs to act now, or shell be without 
insurance. Payment Shield have accepted its email should have been clearer and it has 
apologised to Miss B and offered £100 in compensation. It has also said its taking steps to 
improve this, so other customers arent affected like this in the future. 
I can see Payment Shield has accepted responsibility and have tried to put the situation 
right. However, I dont think Payment Shield have acted reasonably and I think it should 
have been able to do more to help Miss B. 
Miss B thought she had insurance cover in place, she wouldnt have made a claim on her 
policy if she didnt think cover was set-up. Miss B is a busy professional and I think she may 
well have seen the email from Payment Shield and thought her renewal documents had 
been sent out as usual. She may have decided to come back to it later, or quite reasonably 
she may have assumed that her policy would auto renew like in previous years. The email 
she had received saying her renewal documents have been delivered online certainly 
doesnt suggest there are any issues with the renewal. I dont think Payment Shields 
communications have been clear enough and these have misled Miss B. 
With Payment Shield knowing that Miss Bs insurance had been declined, I wouldve 
expected it in its role as broker for Miss B to have supported her in securing alternative 
insurance. Payment Shield has told me that it did seek to get cover for Miss B through their 
panel of eight insurers, but it has said not one of these had been willing to offer cover. I find 
this unusual for three reasons:
Payment Shield didnt communicate to Miss B that it was having any difficulty getting 
insurance cover for her
Payment Shield hasnt provided any reasons why any of the other insurers wouldnt 
want to have insured Miss B
Miss B approached the same insurer directly who Payment Shield said wouldnt 
insure Miss B and it provided Miss B insurance cover straightaway. In fact, Miss B 
has made a special effort to say what a good service the previous and now again 
existing insurer has provided her. This gives the impression that the previous insurer 
had no issue providing Miss B with a policy. This suggests the issue the insurer had 
was with Payment Shield.
I think Payment Shield should have done more in this situation. It should have supported 
Miss B in securing alternative cover or at the very least have communicated with her in an 
effective and timely way to inform her accurately of the situation she was in. Payment Shield 
have told me it doesnt know why the insurer declined to give Miss B cover. Nonetheless, I 
think its actions has led to Miss B been left exposed and in an uncertain position where she 
has not had insurance cover. Therefore, I think it is Payment Shields responsibility to put 
this right. 
I intend to uphold this complaint. I dont think Payment Shield have treated Miss B fairly. I 
intend to ask them to pay Miss Bs claim on production of valid receipts. Miss B has already 
replaced her shower in order to fix the leak that she had at a cost to her of £1,700. Given she has been without this money, I intend to ask Payment Shield to add on 8% simple 
interest from the date Miss B paid for the shower to the date the settlement is paid.
Payment Shield has already paid Miss B £100 compensation for the communication error. 
However, I intend to award Miss B a further £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. I think this is fair. It will have been a stressful situation for Miss B given that 
she became to understand she was living in her house without insurance cover. She has 
also had to arrange her own insurance after the claim as Payment Shield were unable to 
offer an effective service.
 
Responses to my provisional decision of 14 May 2021
Payment Shield disagreed with my provisional decision and provided a detailed response 
setting out the history of the case, which I shall summarise.
Payment Shield said Miss B was transferred to her insurer 3 April 2019 to make a claim for 
her shower and it has provided evidence to support this. It says it was not aware of any 
further issues with this claim after this.
Payment Shield has shown it has no further notes recorded on its system to confirm that 
Miss B had called following the closure of this claim, to re-open the claim or to submit a new 
claim. Payment Shield said Miss Bs insurer confirmed that old claims can be re-opened at 
any time, with no time limits.
Payment Shield said, on 4 November 2020, it has a recorded call of when Miss B called its 
customer services team, prior to Miss B raising her complaint. Payment Shield said Miss B 
advised it that her policy hadnt been renewed at the beginning of the year and she wanted 
details of her claims as she was seeking alternative cover. Payment Shield said Miss B 
didnt raise any points of dissatisfaction regarding a previous claim or say she needed to 
make a new claim.
Payment Shield said Miss B raised her complaint on 24 November 2020 for sending a 
misleading email and she said she had been uninsured since February 2020. Payment 
Shield told our service that Miss B had said she tried to source cover elsewhere but had 
been unable to get cover. Payment Shield said Miss B has a high level of valuables in [her] 
property, but [she] was going to have a call with our office as [she was] going to cover some 
items elsewhere. We attempted to call [Miss B] to review [her] needs and assess fully, but it 
doesnt appear that we were able to contact [her]. It said the call wouldve allowed it to 
assess what she was looking for and it said it would then have attempted to see if any of the 
insurers stances had changed. 
Payment Shield explained its role was as administrators of the policy, such as issuing policy 
documentation. It said this was different to the insurers role, which is to deal with any claims 
and claims related queries or to confirm the acceptance terms for any new policy or policy 
due for renewal. It said its the insurers decision to decline or accept cover and Payment 
Shield have no control over the decision. It also said it didnt have a legal obligation to offer 
cover.
Payment Shield said if Miss Bs complaint is regarding the reopening of the 2019 claim, it 
would be her insurer who would be potentially be liable for this. However, it said if its a new 
claim during the period that Miss B was unaware her policy had not been renewed, Payment 
Shield would potentially be liable, but it said this wasnt part of the original complaint.
Payment Shield also said it hadnt yet paid Miss B the £100 it originally offered her to 
compensate her for sending her a misleading email.Miss B accepted my provisional decision. When I asked her a follow up question, she said: I 
think I made them aware of the leak and asked our service to review the recorded calls that 
were made. She said the calls would show not just my concern about the shower leak but 
also my considerable distress at finding myself uninsured. She thought Payment Shield 
should compensate her for the costs she incurred in having her shower fixed. 
My provisional decision
I issued a further provisional decision on 20th September 2021. I said:
Miss B complained that Payment Shield failed to arrange the renewal on her home 
insurance policy which resulted in Miss B not been insured.
How responsible were Payment Shield for not arranging cover for Miss B?
Payment Shield acted as a broker for Miss B, so its role was to arrange, sell and administer 
the policy to her. In this situation, Miss B expected her policy to auto renew as in earlier 
years. At the time of renewal, however, her insurer declined to offer her cover and cancelled 
her policy. Payment Shield told us none of their own panel of underwriters were willing to 
offer Miss B insurance due to her claims history. Also, Payment Shield said after Miss B 
realised she didnt have insurance in place, she was unable to source her own cover directly 
with an insurer. Payment Shield said she kept a high level of valuables in her property, so it 
said it needed to speak with Miss B to fully understand her insurance needs before it could 
approach insurers on her behalf to see if it could support her in securing cover elsewhere.
I think Payment Shield has failed to provide Miss B with an acceptable level of service. 
Firstly, as explained in my provisional decision, the email sent to Miss B at the time of 
renewal was misleading. It led Miss B to believe she had insurance cover because of the 
misleading subject title of the email. So, I dont think Payment Shield clearly communicated 
with Miss B when the insurer declined to provide her with a policy. She wasnt aware that 
she didnt have insurance as Payment Shield didnt tell her.
Secondly, whilst I appreciate what Payment Shield said that it doesnt have a legal obligation 
to provide Miss B with cover and ultimately its the insurers decision whether to provide 
cover, I do think it has a duty as Miss Bs broker to try and help her source alternative, 
appropriate cover.
Payment Shield said it tried to contact Miss B, but it couldnt contact her. I am not convinced 
that as her broker that Payment Shield made enough effort to contact Miss B and provide 
her with the help she needed at the time.
Therefore, for these reasons I uphold this aspect of the complaint, I dont think Payment 
Shield provided Miss B with the service one would expect from a broker. As I think Payment 
Shield has failed Miss B, I have considered the liability or financial loss that Miss B has 
suffered because of its failing.
Liability or financial loss Miss B has suffered due to Payment Shields failing
Miss B has told our service that she suffered a financial loss in the period she hasnt had 
insurance. She said shes had to repair her shower at a cost of around £1,700.
When Miss B complained to our service, she told our investigator, since 2012 she has had 
an ongoing issue with her shower which her insurer has always dealt with. Miss B said her insurer suggests what she needs to do and always said come back if it doesn't work. Around 
September [2020] she contacted them as her shower had the problem again.
Usually claims are made to the insurer thats on cover. This is only likely to change in certain 
circumstances where its very clear from inspection and investigation of the damage that its 
historical and can be shown to be.
Payment Shield have explained in its response, if the leak relates to an old claim, Miss B 
could re-open her claim with her insurer. Or, if its a completely new leak, not related to the 
previous issues then Payment Shield have said it can consider it if Miss B raises a new 
claim.
Payment Shield said Miss B didnt make it aware of a shower leak at the time of complaining 
to it. I have checked the case file and I think its right, this wasnt part of Miss Bs complaint 
to it. Payment Shield said it appears that the shower leak is linked to a pattern of problems 
with the shower and it does seem quite likely linked to the original 2019 claim. 
I dont think Payment Shield has been unreasonable in saying it wont pay the claim. It hasnt 
said its not liable. But, it hasnt yet had the opportunity to investigate or validate the claim. I 
have also considered that Miss B told our service that her problem is like what she has 
encountered before, suggesting it could be historical in nature. So, I think its only fair 
Payment Shield is given the opportunity to consider this claim, should Miss B decide to raise 
a new claim against it.
Therefore, Payment Shield needs to take the initiative and speak with Miss B to establish the 
facts of what happened in respect to the most recent shower leak. It should then deal with 
the claim or engage with the insurer from the previous claim to determine whether the 
damage is linked. If it is linked, then her previous insurer should deal with the claim. 
However, if the damage occurred in the period she didnt have cover i.e. its new and down 
to a separate incident, then, I would expect Payment Shield to take responsibility and settle 
the claim.
So, I dont intend to consider the financial loss related to the shower under this complaint for 
the reason I have set out. Miss B still has the option to re-open her claim with her previous 
insurer if it relates to an old issue, or with Payment Shield if it is a new leak, not related to 
the historical issues. I think Payment Shield should take the lead and make sure both 
options are clearly worked through with Miss B to ensure the claim gets full consideration 
from all perspectives.
In summary, I uphold Miss Bs complaint that Payment Shield failed to arrange the renewal 
on her home insurance policy which resulted in Miss B not been insured. However, under 
this complaint I cant consider at this time whether Payment Shields failings have resulted in 
a financial loss for Miss B for the reasons I have set out. 
Payment Shields failings led to a significant amount of distress and inconvenience for Miss 
B as she was put in a vulnerable position without having insurance and she had to invest 
time resolving the issue. Therefore, I intend to increase the £100 compensation Payment 
Shield offered to £250 in total. 
I know this decision will be disappointing for Miss B overall, as she was hoping to recoup the 
money she has paid for fixing her shower. However, I can only award costs and 
compensation in relation to issues that have been raised formally as part of a complaint and 
considered by Payment Shield. Miss B still has the option to claim for her shower from her 
insurer (who she claimed from previously about her historical leak) or to raise a new claim 
with Payment Shield about a new leak. Payment Shield need to speak to Miss B and arrange a visit to Miss Bs property to review and discuss what / how the damage occurred 
so a claim can be made. This should be facilitated in conjunction with Miss Bs previous 
insurer, so the claim is managed smoothly.
If there are follow on issues from that with either the insurer or Payment Shield, and Miss B 
is unhappy with the outcome as she doesnt think its fair, Miss B may be able to make a new 
complaint specifically in relation to her claim for damage caused by the shower leak.
Responses to my provisional decision of 20th September 2021
Payment Shield accepted my provisional decision and has communicated with Miss B and 
the previous insurer about Miss Bs claim for her shower. Payment Shield has told us the 
previous insurer is considering the claim.
Our investigator explained my decision to Miss B. Whilst she is happy that Payment Shield 
have been found at fault for its actions, she doesnt feel the compensation is enough given 
the distress she suffered when she realised she didnt have any insurance cover and she 
had to find a new insurer herself. She thinks Payment Shield should pay the cost of the new 
shower she had installed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call Miss B had with our investigator and I could hear that she is still 
frustrated with what happened. Miss B wants Payment Shield to be punished. She thinks it 
has shown a bad attitude throughout this claim.
Our service is not here to punish organisations. My role is to look at the impact that Payment 
Shields mistake has caused and put Miss B back in the position she wouldve been had it 
not made the mistake. Unfortunately, Im going to have to disappoint Miss B, as I havent 
heard any new information that causes me to change my decision from 20th September 
2021.
The only financial loss Miss B has claimed for is for her shower. I explained in my provisional 
decision that the claim should be considered by Miss Bs previous insurer due to the historic 
nature of her shower leaking. Payment Shield have said it would consider the claim if it was 
a new leak. Payment Shield should take the lead and make sure both options are worked 
through.
Miss B has said she has suffered a great deal of distress and inconvenience due to Payment 
Shields mistake. I agree it has contributed towards this. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision its not Payment Shield who make the decision on whether Miss B is 
given insurance. That decision is made by the insurer, but I do think Payment Shield 
shouldve supported Miss B more in this process. Payment Shield also didnt cause Miss Bs 
shower to leak.
I think the £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience that I have awarded is in line 
with what our service would normally award. I know Miss B is unhappy with this amount, but 
I think its fair based on the circumstances of this complaint and the issues Payment Shield 
caused.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require Paymentshield Ltd to:
Pay Miss B £250 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (£100 was Payment 
Shields original offer that was not paid)
Payment Shield should take the lead and make sure both options are clearly worked 
through (claim dealt with by previous insurer or by Payment Shield) with Miss B to 
ensure the claim gets full consideration from all perspectives.
Paymentshield Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman