DRN-2390594
The complaint
Mr A complained about the advice he received from Aon Consulting Limited1 to transfer an 
occupational pension he held to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr A held a defined benefit pension through his employer. The normal retirement age for the 
pension was 65. Mr A was made redundant in 1995 and as part of his redundancy package 
his employer arranged for him to receive advice about his pension. One of Aons advisers 
met with Mr A and ultimately recommended that he transfer his occupational pension to a 
personal one. Mr A took the advice and the transfer was completed in/around October 1995.
In 2005 Mr A received advice from another adviser and moved the pension to a new provider 
following that advice. In 2018 he moved the pension again to another provider.
In 2018 Mr A complained to Aon about the advice hed received in 1995. He said hed been 
discussing his pension with ex-colleagues (who had remained in the occupational scheme) 
and following that he realised the advice he received might have been inappropriate. He 
made several points, including:
his occupational pension was guaranteed, had indexation and spouse benefits
he wondered if the investment risk with the personal pension was justified
he was told that a growth rate of 9.77% was achievable
due to the poor performance of the investments and the charges he was advised in 2005 
to transfer the private pension to another provider  which cost him £2,000 in early exit 
charges.
Aon felt Mr A was outside the time limits to bring his complaint. It nevertheless felt the advice 
given was reasonable as the growth needed for the personal pension to outperform the 
occupational pension was achievable.
Our investigator was satisfied that Mr A had brought his complaint in time  because 
although more than six years had passed since he received the advice, less than three years 
had passed since he realised he had cause for complaint. But our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt there was sufficient potential at the time 
the advice was given for the personal pension to improve on the benefits of the occupational 
one. He felt that in turn meant the advice Mr A received was appropriate.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator and asked for his case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Aon maintained that Mr A was out of time to bring his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 The advice Mr A received wasnt given by Aon per se; it was given by another business who Aon 
has since taken over responsibility for. For ease, I will refer to Aon throughout my decision.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I decide this complaint?
The rules we operate under mean there are only certain complaints that I can decide. Of 
relevance here, I cant decide a complaint if its referred to us:
more than six years after the event complained about happened; or
if six years have already passed, more than three years after the consumer knew (or 
ought to have known) that they had cause to complain.
The advice Mr A is complaining about was in 1995. We received Mr As complaint in 2019, 
so clearly more than six years had passed. Aon has argued that as Mr A received advice 
from another financial adviser in 2005 he should have realised at that point that he had 
cause to complain about the advice he received in 1995  thereby meaning he had three 
years from then to complain.
Im not persuaded by Aons argument. Ive seen financial advisers report from 2005 and I 
dont think it contains any information which ought to have triggered Mr A into realising that 
he had a potential complaint about the 1995 advice. I cant see that the 1995 advice was 
even discussed.
Mr A said he only realised the advice he got in 1995 was unsuitable when he discussed his 
pension with former colleagues in 2018. That sounds plausible to me, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest otherwise. So, as Mr A complained within three years of that realisation, 
I conclude that I can decide this complaint.
Relevant rules
The rules and guidance regarding pension transfer advice and what an adviser must do
have changed over time. In his assessment our investigator referred to a principle introduced 
by the regulator in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook  that the starting point for any 
advice to transfer from a defined scheme should be presumed to be unsuitable. But that 
principle wasnt introduced until December 2001 ie six years after the advice Mr A is 
complaining about was given.
However, there were some important guidance notes issued by the relevant regulators 
(FIMBRA and LAUTRO) in 1992 and 1994, including:
alternative options to transferring from the defined benefit scheme (eg doing nothing, 
transferring to a new employers scheme) should be given equal consideration
a full analysis why these options were ruled out was required
a reason why letter was required explaining why the advice is suitable (taking explicit 
account of the option of remaining within the existing occupational scheme) and 
demonstrating a real link between the consumers circumstances, objectives and risk 
profile and the recommendation.
The regulators at the time also anticipated that many consumers would be best advised to
remain in their existing defined benefit scheme. 
Essentially, Aon was required to give suitable advice to Mr A that was in his best interest.
Suitability of the adviceI havent seen anything which suggests that Mr A was unhappy with his original pension or 
that he was specifically looking to move it elsewhere. It seems that Aon was put in touch with 
Mr A simply because it was arranged and paid for by Mr As employer.
Although there are other factors, the key issues in considering whether the advice to transfer 
to a personal pension was appropriate are usually the consumers attitude to risk, their 
capacity for suffering a loss and how likely it is that the personal pension will be able to 
achieve the necessary investment growth so that it results in a higher pension than the 
original scheme.
Its important to note that an adviser shouldnt regard a rate of return which may replicate the 
benefits being given up from the defined benefits pension scheme as sufficient in itself to 
make the recommendation appropriate. For a transfer to be financially viable, the 
investments a consumers attitude to risk allowed them to make shouldnt just have been 
capable of achieving the growth needed to match the existing benefits but to exceed them. 
Thats because theres an inherent risk that the new pension might underperform. And 
theres usually no point in a consumer giving up the guarantees of a defined benefit scheme 
simply to stand still.
Ive seen a report (called a Transfer Value Analysis  or TVAS) prepared by the adviser in 
1995. It refers to Mr A having the option to remain in the existing scheme or to transfer to his 
new employers scheme, but it doesnt set out any pros and cons of doing either. It said the 
option of transferring to the new employers scheme was ruled out as the scheme didnt 
accept transfers in. It didnt specifically say why remaining in the original scheme was ruled 
out  although it pointed out the benefits of transferring eg flexibility, potentially higher tax 
free cash, better death benefits if death before retirement.
The TVAS compared the likely retirement income Mr A would receive if he remained in the 
original scheme with what he would receive from a personal pension. Of note, it said the 
investment return needed from the personal pension to match Mr As occupational pension 
at retirement at 65 was 9.77% per year. So to exceed the existing benefits so that Mr A 
didnt simply stand still the return needed to have been higher than the 9.77% quoted.
The advice was given during a period when the regulator published what are known as 
discount rates. Mr A would most likely not been aware of this or what they were, but they 
were used during an industry-wide Pensions Review to work out what loss a consumer might 
have suffered after receiving inappropriate advice. The discount rate isnt specifically 
relevant to Mr As complaint, and businesses werent required to refer to them when giving 
advice on pension transfers. But I think it provides a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The discount rate at the time was 10.7% per year for the 32 years Mr A had to retirement. As 
Ive said above, I think this is a useful indication of what growth rate was reasonably 
achievable. So on the face of it, the growth needed to exceed the existing benefits and cover 
the charges looked reasonably achievable. But, as Ive said above, a simple comparison 
between the discount rate and the investment return needed isnt the only determining 
factor.
Another important consideration is whether the growth required was achievable given Mr As 
attitude to risk. I havent seen anything from the time of the advice in this respect so our 
investigator asked Mr A to give his best estimate. Mr A said that on a scale of 1 to 10 (with 1 
being he would take no risk and expect to receive low growth, and 10 being he would take 
high risk with the possibility of receiving high growth but also risking large losses) he was 
probably a 3 or 4. The discount rate takes into account that a consumer would be taking 
some risk with their investment. So I think its likely that a reasonably achievable return for Mr A given his estimated attitude to risk at the time was probably around the discount rate 
Ive quoted.
My understanding is that at the time of the advice this was Mr As only pension  although he 
told us that he joined his new employers pension scheme (I assume later) in 1995. He also 
had no other savings. This might in some cases indicate that Mr A didnt have much capacity 
to lose his only/main source of retirement income. However, Mr A was 33 at the time and 
had another 32 years until his expected retirement date. So I think, as it in fact turned out to 
be the case, that Mr A did have some capacity to suffer a loss on this pension in the 
expectation that it was unlikely to be his sole source of retirement income.
Conclusion
I accept that the estimated growth may not have turned out to be reality in the intervening 
years. But I can only decide this complaint based on what was known or reasonably 
expected in 1995  I cant decide it with the benefit of hindsight.
Having taken everything into account  including the investment growth needed to exceed 
the existing benefits of Mr As original pension, the growth rate considered reasonably 
achievable at the time given Mr As attitude to risk and Mr As capacity to suffer a loss  I 
conclude that the advice to transfer the pension was suitable based on what was known and 
expected at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman