DRN-4228808
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D complains about difficulties in selling her house, which it said were 
caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Mr D brought this complaint to our service, on behalf of the estate.
What happened
Mr D acts for the estate in this complaint. He told us that after the sad death of his mother, 
Mrs D, the estate planned to sell her house. But he wasnt able to do that. Although Mrs D 
had paid off her mortgage many years ago, there was still a charge over the property, held 
by Barclays. Mr D said his solicitor worked hard to have this charge removed, but although 
the solicitor first asked Barclays to do this on 25 April 2022, it wasnt done by Barclays until 
10 November 2022.
Mr D said the delays in selling that Barclays caused meant the estate had to reduce the
selling price of the house by £3,000. He said this wouldnt have been necessary if Barclays
had acted promptly. He had to pay extra solicitors costs for the extra work chasing Barclays.
And he faced ongoing costs of maintaining the property, made up of £50 per fortnight for a
gardener, and £150 for insurance.
Mr D said hed lost out on interest on the sale proceeds, and hed had to cancel plans for a
holiday and a major purchase, because Barclays delayed this sale. Mr D felt Barclays ought
to pay substantial compensation for this.
Barclays said it had now found papers sent by the estates solicitor, which had been
received in May. It was sorry it hadnt responded to these at that time. The solicitor then sent
a deed of release form, and that had been actioned.
Barclays said the delay was because the mortgage account could no longer be located on
any of its systems due to the age of the account. Barclays said it had now released the
charge, and sent all the paperwork to the estates solicitor.
Barclays offered to pay Mr D £1,150 made up of £1,000 in compensation, and £150 for
additional costs of insuring the house. It said it wouldnt reimburse the costs Mr D said hed
paid for a gardener, because Mr D couldnt evidence these costs. Hed been paying cash,
and didnt appear to have invoices.
Barclays said it understood Mr D felt hed lost a lot more than this, because hed had to
reduce the selling price of the house, but Barclays said it couldnt be sure this sale would
otherwise have gone through, so it didnt think it was liable for this loss.
Mr D has turned down this offer, and Barclays hasnt paid this money. But it has paid £624,
which it sent directly to Mr Ds solicitor, to cover the additional charges due to its delays.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought that Barclays offer
of £1,150 was fair.
Mr D replied to disagree. Because no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to
me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I wrote to Mr D to explain our services approach to cases 
like this, and to ask for further evidence. I explained that Mrs D was Barclays customer. 
And the complaint we are considering is brought on her behalf, by her estate. Mr D had 
shown us a grant of probate which means he is entitled to bring this complaint, but it 
remains the complaint of the late Mrs D.
That does have an impact, under our rules, on what we can consider in terms of 
redress. Unfortunately, we are only allowed to consider making an award for the effect 
of the case on the complainant. So here, thats the estate of the late Mrs D. And that 
means Im not able to take account of the direct impact on Mr D. I cant take account of 
the large purchase he wasnt able to make, or the holiday he had to cancel. These are 
things that have affected him personally, and our service cant include the impact of 
those in the estates complaint.
I explained we can look at the impact of what happened, on the estate. So if the estate 
had to pay more in costs, or didnt get as much money for something it sold, because of
something Barclays did, then we can consider whether Barclays ought to pay some 
money to the estate.
It looked to me as if Barclays had accepted it made a mistake here, and should have
removed the charge on Mrs Ds house considerably earlier than it did. So I needed to 
think about the impact of that on the estate.
Barclays has already paid some additional solicitors costs. It wouldnt pay the money Mr 
D said the estate had missed out on, when the house was sold, because it said it 
couldnt be completely sure the house would otherwise have sold, earlier and for a 
higher price.
I explained that for me to consider covering a loss like that in an award, I would need to 
see that it was more likely than not that the loss wouldnt have occurred if Barclays 
hadnt made a mistake. And thats a difficult issue to assess, because lots of things can, 
and do, go wrong with the sale of properties, often quite unexpectedly.
Mr D had told us he had some further information on the sale. He had mentioned a letter
from his estate agent, which confirmed the first sale was otherwise going ahead, and the
only problem was the charge on the deeds which Barclays hadnt removed. I invited Mr 
D to send us this letter, and to ask his solicitor to comment on the sale of the property.
Mr D has now sent our service further evidence. This is made up of a letter from the 
estate agent, explaining that the first sale fell through on 17 August. The buyer of Mrs 
Ds house lost their sale, as their buyers mortgage offer expired. Mr D then accepted a 
lower offer, because the buyer of Mrs Ds house had to accept a lower offer in turn, to 
keep their sale.
Mr D also sent us correspondence from his solicitor, which confirmed that she first 
contacted Barclays to remove the charge in April. It also confirmed that on 25 July the only outstanding issue prior to sale was the removal of the charge over Mrs Ds 
property. The solicitor listed her efforts to chase up the release of the charge, and 
confirmed that the charge wasnt removed until mid-November. The sale then finally 
went through.
Considering the consistent evidence Mr D has supplied, it does seem more likely that if
Barclays had removed this charge promptly when asked, or at least contacted Mr D or 
his solicitors at that time, then the sale of Mrs Ds property would have proceeded rather 
than collapsing on 17 August, and the estate would have gained £3,000 more than it 
eventually did.
Barclays has offered Mr D £1,000 in compensation, and £150 for insurance costs. Mr D
didnt accept this, and it has not been paid. Barclays has also offered £624 for additional
solicitors costs, which has been paid.
Ive explained that I cannot take account of the impact of whats gone wrong here on Mr 
D himself, because hes not the complainant. So I cannot ask Barclays to pay him any
compensation. But I can take account of the impact on the estate. And it seems likely 
that if Barclays hadnt made this mistake, then the estate would not have needed to pay 
£624 in solicitors costs or an extra £150 for home insurance. It also seems likely that the 
estate would have gained an additional £3,000 on the sale of Mrs Ds home. We know 
Barclays has already paid £624 for solicitors costs, so I now propose to ask Barclays to 
pay £150 for home insurance, and £3,000 for the lower return on the sale, to Mrs Ds 
estate. It will then be for Mr D to distribute the payment under the terms of the late Mrs 
Ds will.
Following the receipt of this provisional decision, Barclays may wish to withdraw its 
separate offer of £1,000 in compensation to Mr D directly. I should make clear for Mr D, 
that nothing in this decision compels Barclays to make the payment of compensation to 
him that it earlier offered, and under the rules of our service, we cannot compel Barclays 
to do so.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said that he was happy to accept this provisional decision. Barclays contacted us to 
ask for evidence to confirm the sale had fallen through because of its delays in releasing the 
charge, which we forwarded to Barclays. Barclays then wrote again, to ask for evidence of 
the sale price Mr D had originally agreed on the property. Mr D supplied the original 
memorandum of sale, showing the higher price hed initially agreed, and we forwarded this 
to Barclays too. Barclays then made a further request, to evidence the actual sale price of 
the property. Mr D kindly provided that too, sending us the Land Registry documentation 
showing the sale price, and we forwarded this to Barclays. Barclays has made no further 
comment, after receiving this evidence.
So Mr D has accepted my provisional decision, on behalf of the estate, and Barclays hasnt 
offered any further argument against this decision. I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the estate of Mrs D £3,150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman