DRN-2914094
The complaint
Mr F complains about the sale of two mobile phone insurance policies by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd.  
What happened
Mr F took out two mobile phone insurance policies with Carphone Warehouse. The first was 
taken out in May 2011 and the second in May 2013. 
Mr F says he already had separate insurance but was told he needed to take the policy in 
order to get the phone he wanted. 
Our investigator was satisfied the complaints had been made in time as Mr F had brought 
them within three years of becoming aware he had grounds for complaint. But, as Mr F 
hadnt paid any premiums for policy 1, he didnt think hed lost out even if this was mis-sold. 
For policy 2 he thought Mr F had a need for the cover it offered which was supported by the 
fact hed made a claim on the policy. And he didnt think there was evidence to show the 
optional nature of the policy hadnt been made clear to him. 
Carphone Warehouse didnt respond to his view. Mr F said he had no record of making a 
claim and said hed felt pressured into taking out the policy. So I need to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy 1
If I conclude a policy was mis-sold I need to consider what position the consumer would 
have been in if there hadnt been a mis-sale. This could mean I ask the seller to refund the 
premiums paid if I think the consumer wouldnt have bought the policy. But in this case Mr F 
didnt pay anything for the policy sold in May 2011. That means even if it was mis-sold he 
hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result. So I dont need to consider the issues hes raised 
in relation to this sale as theres no loss that needs to be put right.
Policy 2
As Mr F is aware a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation found there were failings 
in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. As the sale of this 
policy fell within that period Ive kept the findings of that report in mind when considering this 
complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy theyre selling. And for an advised sale they need to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the insurance is suitable for their customer. This would include 
establishing if they had a need for it and whether they had cover elsewhere that could 
provide the same benefits. 
Theres been some conflicting information about how this policy was sold. Carphone 
Warehouse initially suggested it was an online sale. However, the notes from the time 
indicate the policy was sold when Mr F spoke to one of its advisers. Carphone Warehouse 
hasnt disputed that a sale of this nature would be advised. So I think it likely the policy was 
sold on that basis.  
Was the policy suitable for Mr F?
One of the things the FCA found was that the sales consultants were not trained adequately 
to assess a customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. And they 
were trained in objection handling, which the FCA pointed out undermined the advised 
sales process. 
So I think its likely there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability 
of this policy for Mr F. But where thats the case I also need to consider whether (and how) 
hes been affected by that failing. If, for example, we thought there were flaws in a sales 
process but a consumer would still have bought a policy, they wont necessarily have lost out 
as a result of those failings. 
In this case I can see the policy provided cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and 
breakdown. And when he took it out Mr F had just purchased a new mobile handset. So I 
think he had a potential need for the cover it provided. Mr F says he had alternative cover. 
However, hes not provided any further evidence to support that. And while he disputes he 
subsequently made a claim on this policy the evidence Ive seen (which weve previously 
provided to him) suggests he did. I think that also indicates he had a need for the policy.  
It doesnt look like Mr F was significantly affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover 
and the cost was relatively low. Mr F agreed to that cost and hasnt suggested it was 
unaffordable for him. I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him. 
Was Mr F aware he had a choice about taking out the policy? 
Mr F says he was told he needed to take this policy out in order to get the phone he wanted. 
I understand theres no recording of the call he had with the adviser so the evidence as to 
what was said is limited. But I appreciate the FCA report did reference cancellation calls in 
which customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. 
However, Mr F hasnt provided any further detail about what happened during that call. And 
in his original complaint the dates he provided (and associated comments) dont relate to the 
2013 sale. So its not clear to me that he has a clear recollection of what happened during 
this sales call. I dont think theres enough here for me to conclude Carphone Warehouse 
gave him inaccurate information about the optional nature of the policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman