DRN-4199538
The complaint
Ms G complains Euroins AD declined her claim for physiotherapy she underwent abroad. 
What happened
Ms G took out a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Euroins. And she 
travelled abroad with her husband, for a holiday lasting around 12 weeks. 
Unfortunately, during the first week of the holiday, Ms G slipped and injured her arm. She 
attended hospital where she underwent an x-ray and a scan. She was referred to a specialist 
and underwent 10 sessions of physiotherapy. 
Ms G said she called Euroins medical assistance line multiples times on the day of her 
accident and the following day, but couldnt get through to the right team despite leaving 
messages. She said after escalating her concerns and saying she would contact the media, 
she received a call back two days after the accident, and was authorised to see a specialist. 
Ive listened to the call between Ms G and Euroins medical assistance helpline. Ms G 
explained she had been to a public hospital where an x-ray had taken place, and she had 
been referred to see a specialist orthopaedic surgeon at a private clinic. She said shed been 
told surgery might be necessary. 
Euroins agent told Ms G that she needed to call back if surgery was necessary, and that 
they would need to see a medical report and refer to their medical assistance team to find 
out the next steps. Euroins also said treatment in a private hospital was not covered under 
the policy, so if surgery was needed, Ms G would need to have this in a state hospital or 
return home to the UK. 
A medical report from an orthopaedic surgeon confirms Ms G had fractured her arm and 
required a CT scan. It states she underwent conservative treatment and needed 
physiotherapy to the shoulder for three weeks. 
Ms G said she tried to contact Euroins by phone again after seeing the specialist, but was 
unable to get through. She went ahead with the physiotherapy and continued with her 
holiday, returning as planned on her original flight home. She made a claim including the 
costs of her medication, physiotherapy and taxi fares totalling £578.21. 
Euroins said it would pay the claim related to emergency costs only. It said because of this it 
wouldnt pay for the physiotherapy. And it said it would only cover one set of taxi costs for 
the day the medical emergency took place. 
After deducting an excess of £150, Euroins said the claim settlement would be £162.45.
Within the Emergency medical and repatriation expenses section of the policy, the terms 
say the following is covered in the case of bodily injury: 
emergency medical and surgical treatment in the nearest appropriate hospital, 
including medical practitioner fees, hospital expenses and charges for medical 
transportation. 
And under what you are not covered for within the same section of the policy: 
8) Costs incurred for 
a) surgery or medical treatment which in the opinion of the attending medical 
practitioner and the emergency assistance company medical practitioner can 
reasonably be delayed until you return to your home country; 
b) medication and / or treatment which at the time of departure is known to be 
required or to be continued outside your home country;
 
c) preventative treatment which can reasonably be delayed until your return to your 
home country;.  
Ms G complained to Euroins. It said it hadnt paid the cost of the physiotherapy Ms G 
received abroad, as non-urgent treatment was not covered under the policy. It said it had 
reviewed the claim again, but maintained its decision that the cost of the physiotherapy 
would not be paid. 
Unhappy with the response, Ms G brought her complaint to this service and I issued a 
provisional decision, explaining that I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Ive considered what Ms G has said about the difficulties in making contact with 
Euroins. And Ive noted in her call with the medical assistance line, they apologised 
that they were receiving more calls than they could answer. And explained that if she 
needed to call again, she should leave a voicemail with the messaging service and 
they would call back. 
Ms G has said after her appointment with the specialist, she tried to speak to Euroins 
again about the Physiotherapy, but couldnt get through. Theres no evidence of this 
aside from Ms Gs testimony. However, Euroins has not disputed this. And, based on 
the experience Ms G had when she previously called, which Euroins agreed with, I 
accept what Ms G has said.  So, Ive gone on to consider what I think would have 
happened if Ms G had been able to speak to the assistance line about the 
recommendation for physiotherapy. 
The policy states that only emergency medical treatment is covered. The medical 
report from the orthopaedic surgeon does not state any timeframe for the 
physiotherapy Ms G was to receive. It states Ms Gs fracture had been treated 
conservatively and that she needed three weeks of physiotherapy. Ms G has said the 
specialist told her the physiotherapy was urgent, and if she didnt have it, she could 
have suffered a frozen shoulder. However, there is no record of this in the medical 
report supplied. 
If Ms G had been able to speak to Euroins, I think it would have asked for further 
detail from the specialist on the urgency of the physiotherapy, to ascertain whether or 
not it could wait until Ms G returned to the UK, or if it needed to be carried out abroad.  In the absence of this further evidence, Ive reviewed the NHS guidance on 
conservative treatment of the fracture Ms G suffered. And the recommendation is for 
a referral to physiotherapy after a couple of weeks. As Ms G fell during the first week 
of a 12 week holiday, this persuades me her treatment couldnt reasonably be 
delayed until her return to the UK. So, she would have either needed to curtail her 
holiday and be repatriated early, or the physiotherapy needed to take place locally. 
Ms G continued her holiday and underwent ten sessions of physiotherapy, returning 
home as originally planned. So, I think this is what would have happened, had she 
been able to discuss this with Euroins. And I dont think the insurer has been 
prejudiced here, as it seems to me that covering the physiotherapy would have 
incurred a much lower cost than a curtailment and repatriation.
So, it follows I think Ms Gs claim is covered under the Emergency medical and 
repatriation expenses section of her policy. Euroins should pay the costs of the 
physiotherapy treatment and taxi costs for attending the sessions, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And Euroins should also pay £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms G by originally declining the claim. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Ms G responded to my provisional decision. She said she accepted the decision and had 
minimised her claim for taxi journeys by walking to her physiotherapy appointments most of 
the time.   
 
Euroins did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further points I need to consider, so I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Euroins to pay the claim for physiotherapy and associated taxi journey costs, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And it must pay £50 for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Euroins AD must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman