DRN-1479351
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold him an income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr B had the benefit of an income protection policy which couldve paid him a monthly 
benefit in the event that he was unable to work as a result of an accident, sickness, or if he 
lost his job. In May 2019, hed decided to take out that policy again when it was due to renew 
and was referred to ActiveQuote to facilitate this, after using a comparison site.
Rather than sell him the policy that Mr B had contacted it about, ActiveQuote recommended 
a different income protection policy to him. That policy covered him for accident, sickness 
and unemployment and could pay the same monthly benefit as the previous policy he had, 
over the same period of time. However, the premium was around £2 less per month and 
there was an initial waiting period of 30 days, and the benefit wasnt payable until hed been 
off work sick or injured  or unemployed  for 61 days. Should any of these events had 
occurred, he wouldve received the monthly benefit for the 30 days immediately preceding 
the 61st day but not the initial waiting period. 
Shortly after taking out the policy Mr B had an operation. But as he was off work sick for 
around six weeks, he wasnt able to claim under the policy.
Mr B says the policy ActiveQuote recommended to him was mis-sold  particularly as the 
policy he previously had the benefit of didnt contain a waiting period. Hes now cancelled the 
policy and taken out the policy hed originally contacted ActiveQuote about.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagrees so his complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
I know Mr B says that when he contacted ActiveQuote he already knew which policy he 
wanted and it shouldve sold that to him, rather than searching the market to see what other 
policies were available. However, Ive listened to the recording of the call he had with 
ActiveQuotes representative during which the policy was sold to him, and Im satisfied that 
he was open to hear about other policies. 
ActiveQuote recommended the policy to him. So, not only did it have an obligation to ensure 
that it was suitable for his needs, but it also had to provide him with clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the main terms of the policy.
Ive seen nothing to conclude that the policy was unsuitable for Mr B. For example, taking 
into account the answers he gave to certain questions during the call, he wasnt caught by 
any of the policys exclusions at the time the policy was sold. And I dont think the cost of the monthly premium meant that the policy was unaffordable or - when compared with the 
monthly benefit  unsuitable. 
Further, Mr B told ActiveQuotes representative that he was in a secure job, having been 
employed for around 14 years and was entitled to six months full pay. So I dont think not 
receiving any benefit for the first 30 days made the policy unsuitable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. And nor did Mr B then having to wait a further 30 days to 
receive the monthly benefit if he was off work or unemployed for the entirety of that period. If 
hed been off work sick or injured for two months, he wouldve received full pay from his 
employer during that time. And if hed been made redundant, he wouldve received a 
statutory redundancy payment, which wouldve covered him for at least two months. 
Im also satisfied that during the call Mr B was given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the main terms of the policy such as the monthly benefit, how long the 
policy could pay out for (12 months) and what it covered. Im also persuaded that he was 
told that there would be a waiting period of 30 days and that he would have to wait until the 
61st day of being off work sick, injured or unemployed to get the backdated monthly benefit 
for the second month.
Mr B says he thought this meant that he would still be entitled to claim from the first day he 
was unable to work as a result of sickness or accident, or the day after he lost his job; he 
thought payment of the monthly benefit would just be delayed for a couple of months. 
However, I dont think anything said by the representative gave that impression. Mr B was 
expressly told that he will get his first payment at the end of the second month instead of the 
first
Further, I dont think anything sent to Mr B by ActiveQuote - or the insurer  after the call is 
inconsistent with this or gives the impression that Mr B is entitled to claim from the first day 
being off work sick/injured or unemployed. For example, the letter ActiveQuote sent to Mr B, 
shortly after the call, confirming the recommendation made to him during the call, says: this 
policy has a waiting period of 1 month. This waiting period has been recommended because 
you have advised me that you receive sick pay for this period of time or you have sufficient 
means and can wait until the policy benefit is paid.
That document in isolation might not have made it clear that he was unable to claim for the 
first month immediately after losing his job or being too sick or injured to work. But for the 
reasons set out above, considering the information Mr B was given during the call, Im not 
persuaded that he couldve reasonably been under the impression that the policy would pay 
out for the first 30 days as a result of anything said to him by ActiveQuotes representative.
I also note that Mr B is unhappy with the way in which ActiveQuote investigated his 
complaint, and particularly the attitude of its representative who handled his complaint. 
However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so our Service doesnt have the power 
to look into that aspect of his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman