DRN-4049179
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit card 
accounts which were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs D opened two credit card accounts in 2018 and 2019 which she says were unaffordable. 
She says she was only able to repay the minimum amount and would like all interest 
refunded. She would also like any adverse information removed from her credit file.
Lloyds says it carried out appropriate checks on Mrs Ds application and on her credit file. It 
says there was no adverse information recorded on her credit file and she didnt tell it about 
any difficulties until recently.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. The investigator didnt 
think Lloyds had carried out appropriate checks and hadnt clarified Mrs Ds outgoings when 
she declared she didnt have such outgoings such as mortgage payments. The investigator 
recommended interest and charges be refunded and any adverse information removed from 
Mrs Ds credit file when the balance repaid.
Mrs D doesnt accept that view and would like all adverse information removed immediately 
from her credit file.
Lloyds says it will refund all interest and agree an interest free repayment plan with Mrs D 
but says it will not remove any adverse information either now or in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any lending or credit facility. These were applications by Mrs D for credit facilities 
and so I wouldnt have expected Lloyds checks to have been as detailed as for example for 
a mortgage application, but of course appropriate checks must be carried out.
I can see Lloyds, on both applications, checked Mrs Ds credit file which showed no adverse 
information such as missed payments or defaults. I can see that Mrs D declared an income 
which on the face of it would have been enough for what I dont think were particularly large 
credit limits.
The issue here is that it doesnt appear that Mrs D declared accurately her expenditure such 
as, for example, her mortgage payments. I appreciate Lloyds used standard calculations in 
assessing the applications and that it no doubt will say that Mrs D ought to provide accurate 
information about her finances. But I also think that Lloyds ought reasonably to have 
questioned Mrs Ds application and ought to have asked her about those outgoings. Im 
satisfied that further checks should have been carried out in those circumstances which 
would have raised affordability issues.
I have looked at Mrs Ds outgoings and her bank statements which suggested signs of clear 
financial difficulties for unknown reasons. I can also see that Mrs D had a number of other 
credit card and loan accounts.
So overall I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out by Lloyds on 
these two credit card account applications.
In any event Lloyds has fairly agreed to refund any interest and deduct those amounts from 
the balances owed by Mrs D. That is the approach I would have taken here.
The only issue between the parties is the reporting of adverse information on a credit file as 
there is no actual refund due to Mrs D and so no interest due on that payment. Our approach 
in these circumstances is that normally a consumer should repay the money they have 
borrowed as they have had the benefit of it. Lloyds has fairly agreed to arrange an interest 
free plan with Mrs D. I cant see any evidence that a default has been registered on her file. 
And that any account arrangement should be reported on Mrs Ds credit file until such time 
as the amounts she owes are repaid. I find it would be unfair to remove all details of the two 
credit card accounts from Mrs Ds credit file as clearly the money is owed, and future lenders 
are entitled to see a true representation of a borrowers financial situation. Equally I cant 
agree with Lloyds approach here or understand what its position is.
Putting things right
Lloyds should refund all charges and interest on both credit card accounts and deduct those 
amounts from the balances owed by Mrs D as its agreed to do. Lloyds should agree interest 
free repayment plans with Mrs D and is entitled to report those plans as arrangements on 
Mrs Ds credit file. Any such information should be removed from Mrs Ds credit file when the 
balances are repaid.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and order Lloyds Bank PLC to follow the 
above direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman