DRN-4354764
The complaint
Mr B complains that CASLP Ltd (Sanlam) failed to issue him with forms to complete and 
return in time for his payments from his pension policies to be processed in line with his 
instructions. He feels this has led to increased income tax liabilities.
What happened
Mr B had some capped drawdown policies with Sanlam. As he was approaching age 75, 
after which Sanlam no longer offered capped drawdown on his policies, Sanlam wrote to Mr 
B on 16 July 2021 to tell him that he might want to consider converting his policies to Flexi-
access drawdown under its OneSIPP pension product.
Sanlam wrote to Mr B again on 28 September 2021 to set out Mr Bs options and the actions 
hed need to take. Sanlam said that it wouldnt offer capped drawdown pension beyond age 
75. Instead, Mr B had the following options:
a) he could choose to take all his pension fund, in the form of Flexi-Access Drawdown from 
his current policy, as a one-off cash lump sum payment, or
b) he could switch to its OneSIPP contract, in which he could continue to receive a regular 
and/or ad-hoc income from his pension fund through Flexi-Access Drawdown, or
c) he could transfer his drawdown pension fund to another provider.
Sanlam wrote to Mr B again on 8 October 2021 about his capped drawdown policies after 
his 75th birthday. 
Mr B completed a Maturity Options Form on 12 January 2022. He said he wanted to take his 
pension funds as a one-off cash lump sum payment. Sanlam said it received the completed 
form on 14 January 2022. 
Sanlam replied to Mr B on 14 January 2022. It said that before it could proceed with his 
request, it would have to find out what advice/guidance hed been given about the decisions 
he was now making and establish if he was acting in line with that advice/guidance. And 
identify what potential risk factors existed for his chosen option and notify Mr B of the risks 
identified. It asked Mr B to complete a Lifestyle Questionnaire & Assessment form. 
Mr B wrote to Sanlam on 26 January 2022. He said hed received advice that in order to 
minimise his tax exposure he should take part of his pension funds in the current tax year 
(2021/2022). And transfer the balance into a Nominees and Successors Drawdown Facility, 
then take the balance in the 2022/2023 tax year. He asked Sanlam if this was possible, and 
what the potential costs would be.
Sanlam replied to Mr B with security questions on 28 January 2022. Mr B responded to this 
the same day.
Sanlam next wrote to Mr B on 2 February 2022 to tell him his intended withdrawal method 
would be possible. It said it would move Mr B to its OneSIPP product to facilitate the 
drawdown. Sanlam also provided a website link with information about the product. And said 
that if Mr B wanted to proceed, he should complete and return the risk assessment it had 
sent him on 14 January 2022.
Mr B completed the Lifestyle Questionnaire & Assessment form on 16 February 2022. And 
Sanlam said it received it on 21 February 2022. 
Mr B complained to Sanlam on 6 April 2022 after hed noticed hed been sent a payment 
from his capped drawdown policies after his 75th birthday. He felt Sanlam had completely 
disregarded his wishes. And that he would now have to pay additional income tax.
Sanlam issued a preliminary response to Mr Bs complaint on 4 May 2022. It acknowledged 
that it shouldve issued him with paperwork when it had received his completed Lifestyle 
Questionnaire & Assessment form. And that as it hadnt, the process to complete Mr Bs 
request had stalled, leading to him missing the opportunity to minimise his tax liability. 
Sanlam said the forms were only sent to Mr B on 17 May 2022.
Sanlam said it needed to establish the loss and calculate the appropriate redress. So it 
needed documentary evidence from Mr B of his total earnings for the 2021/2022 tax year 
and his projected earnings for the 2022/2023 tax year over and above the drawdown 
payment requested.
On 5 May 2022, Sanlam confirmed to Mr B that a scan of his most recent tax return would 
be sufficient evidence of earnings. 
Sanlam issued its final response to the complaint on 31 May 2022. It upheld the complaint. It 
said that when it had received Mr Bs completed form on 21 February 2022, it shouldve sent 
him a Flexi-Access Drawdown Form, a Capped Drawdown to Flexi-Access Drawdown 
conversion form and Risk Warnings for signing. But as it had failed to do so, the process had 
stalled and Mr B had missed the opportunity to take the actions hed wanted to take. 
Sanlam apologised for its error and the inconvenience itd caused. And said that it didnt yet 
know the exact amount of any additional tax liability Mr B would incur due to the whole 
amount of his pension being encashed in the 2022/2023 tax year, rather than in both the 
2021/2022 and 2022/2023 tax years. It said itd asked Mr B on 4 May 2022 for documentary 
evidence which he hadnt yet provided. And that without that information, it couldnt assess 
the financial loss. 
Sanlam also sent Mr B a hamper as a goodwill gesture in recognition of the error itd made 
when itd failed to send the forms on 21 February 2022. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Sanlams response, so he wrote to it again on 6 May 2022. He didnt 
know why Sanlam needed him to repeat his intentions on the required forms, given hed 
made clear what he wanted to happen over two tax years. He accepted Sanlams apology 
and that the forms had been missed due to an administrative error, but wanted to know how 
Sanlam was going to put things right. Mr B sent Sanlam his own calculations of his April 
2021 and April 2022 income tax liability. 
Sanlam replied to Mr B on 1 July 2022. It said that the exact amount of any additional tax 
liability was still unknown. And that although it was prepared to reimburse Mr B for any 
additional tax hed have to pay as a result of its error, it could only do this once the charge 
had actually been incurred and the exact amount was known. It also said that Mr B had yet 
to return completed application forms to allow the process Mr B wanted to go ahead. It said it 
had therefore had to extend Mr Bs capped income in the meantime. Mr B replied to Sanlam on 6 July 2022. He felt hed complied with all Sanlams requests. And 
said that he would bring his complaint to this service. To put things right, Mr B would like 
compensation for the poor customer service hes experienced. And for Sanlam to cover the 
additional tax he will end up paying.
Sanlam told this service it was surprised Mr B had brought his complaint to this service 
before hed actually incurred any tax loss. It said it was committed to redressing any future 
tax loss for Mr B. 
Mr B wanted to know whether Sanlam would continue to pay him income from his capped 
drawdown policies. He said he had plans for the cash lump sum hed wanted which would 
now have to wait. He also wanted Sanlam to cover the postage expenses hed incurred in 
pursuing his complaint. 
Sanlam said that Mr B was still receiving capped drawdown income payments, which 
although permitted, wouldnt normally be possible within his pension policies after age 75. It 
said it was still trying to transfer Mr B into the OneSIPP product so it could proceed with his 
request but he still hadnt completed and returned the OneSIPP docs. Sanlam also said that 
there was no way it could calculate Mr Bs loss until it had received the paperwork to 
advance the conversion of the old policies to a OneSIPP so that it could allow the required 
drawdown to happen.
Sanlam acknowledged that there was a possibility that Mr Bs first cash payment couldve 
been made by the end of the 2021/2022 tax year if hed been sent the appropriate 
documentation on 21 February 2022. But said that he wouldve had to return the forms in a 
timely manner for that to be the case. And noted that he hadnt historically done that. 
Our investigator asked Sanlam specifically which documents Mr B needed to sign so that the 
process could be completed. And what the next steps would be for the process itself and for 
the financial loss calculation.
Sanlam provided the required forms on 30 September 2022. And said that the next steps 
would be to convert Mr Bs policies. It said it still needed to establish what tax relief Mr B had 
left in the 2021/2022 tax year before he would become liable to higher rate income tax. And 
that although it had asked Mr B for suitable evidence, he had yet to provide it. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr B was frustrated with how long the complaint was 
taking to resolve. But considered Sanlams offer to put things right was fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances. He said that once Mr B had returned the required forms to Sanlam, 
his policy would be converted and hed be able to encash his funds. He said Sanlam still 
needed income tax information from Mr B before it could calculate the required redress.
Mr B asked our investigator to send him a summary of what Sanlam still needed from him. 
Our investigator confirmed that Sanlam still needed the forms hed recently sent to Mr B to 
be completed and returned. And evidence of Mr Bs total earnings in the 2021/2022 tax year. 
He explained that Mr Bs own calculations werent able to be used as evidence.
Mr B told our investigator he was reluctant to complete the required forms as he never 
wanted to move his funds into a flexi-access drawdown. Our investigator said that Sanlam 
had said that this was the only way it could carry out his request. He also said that because 
Sanlam had initially sent the required forms to Mr B in May 2022, he couldn't reasonably say 
that it couldve processed Mr Bs request until the forms had been completed and returned. 
Mr B eventually returned the forms to Sanlam who received them on 8 November 2022.
Mr B had a number of questions for Sanlam, as follows: When would the balance of his pension be paid?
How much would be paid?
What compensation would Sanlam pay him for its errors and the payment delay?
Would Sanlam itself correct the additional income tax?
Would it pay all costs and reimburse him for postage?
Would it pay interest on all amounts due after 5 April 2022?
Sanlam wrote to Mr B on 23 November 2022 about his transfer. The transfer was paid on 6 
December 2022. 
On 16 December 2022, Mr B acknowledged the transfer of £31,382.78 into his bank 
account. He said he was extremely disappointed that there was no detail about how the 
payment had been calculated. He asked Sanlam to provide the value of his fund on 5 April 
2022, and to explain how the income tax had been calculated, leading to the payment of 
£31,382.78. 
Sanlam confirmed that the gross amount of the payment had been £54,705.74. Income tax 
of £23,322.96 had then been deducted, leading to a net payment of £31,382.78.
Sanlam also said that it had covered the compensation it would pay Mr B in its final 
response letter. 
Sanlam said that it still hadnt received appropriate confirmation that Mr B had any basic rate 
tax relief remaining by the end of the 2021/2022 tax-year. It asked if this service could obtain 
Mr Bs 2022 P60 and forward it to them. It said it could then carry out a loss calculation.
Sanlam also said that it couldnt simply deduct any additional tax from any payments made 
to Mr B. It said it was legally obliged to deduct tax as directed by HMRC. But it said it would 
cover any reasonable and directly attributable costs which wouldnt otherwise have been 
suffered by Mr B, such as postage costs. 
In response to Mr Bs question about whether Sanlam would pay him interest on all amounts 
due after 5 April 2022, Sanlam said that it had issued the required forms to conclude the 
process on 17 May 2022, but that Mr B hadnt returned them until 8 November 2022. So it 
was unsure what its liability period should be.
Our investigator shared Sanlams responses to Mr Bs questions with him. He still felt that 
Sanlam had made a reasonable offer to put things right. He didnt consider that Sanlam 
should pay interest on all amounts due after April 2022 because it hadnt received the 
required forms to process the request until November 2022. 
Mr B felt that Sanlam had enough information about what his 2021/2022 and his 2022/2023 
taxable income would be. So he felt that it couldve already calculated how much of his basic 
rate allowance had been used. He said he expected Sanlam to further compensate him for 
time wasted and interest lost as a result of not complying with his initial request.
Mr B provided this service with scans of his P60s on 3 February 2023. This service shared 
the information with Sanlam. Sanlam confirmed on 3 March 2023 that it had received all of 
the information it needed, except that it would also still need Mr Bs 2022/2023 P60 for the 
loss calculation. Our investigator asked Mr B to send this to Sanlam once he had it. Mr B provided this service with his 2022/2023 P60 on 4 May 2023. And our investigator 
shared this with Sanlam. It confirmed on 15 May 2023 that it now had everything it needed to 
calculate any loss. It asked for guidance from this service on the calculation. 
Sanlam said that although it had taken Mr B so long to return the forms, so it wasnt certain 
that if it had sent the forms out on time his instructions couldve been met, it would accept a 
date of 4 April 2022 (or closest trading date) for the first 50% withdrawal in the 2021/22 tax 
year. 
Sanlam told this service on 12 June 2023 that it was still working on the loss calculation. And 
that it would take a few more weeks to finalise. On 11 August 2023, as the calculation still 
hadnt been finalised, our investigator wrote to Sanlam to give it two weeks to complete the 
calculation or he would move the case to final decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to be for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 6 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint. I agree with our investigator that Sanlams 
compensation offer is broadly reasonable. But I consider that the loss calculation needs to 
be more clearly specified. And I also consider that Sanlam should repay Mr B for the 
postage costs hes incurred whilst pursuing his complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
What happened?
Mr B told Sanlam he wanted to terminate his drawdown policies at age 75. He then wanted 
to take fifty percent of the balance as taxed cash in the tax year ending in 2022 and the 
remaining funds in the tax year ending in 2023. Sanlam confirmed this would be possible.
Instead, initially because Sanlam didnt send Mr B the required forms to process his 
instruction, and then because Mr B didnt complete and return those forms, Sanlam made a 
special concession so it could continue to pay Mr Bs income drawdown payments from his 
policies. It also sent Mr B a hamper to apologise for its administrative error.
Mr B feels that Sanlam has ignored his instructions. Sanlam feels that it made an 
administrative error when it failed to send the required forms to Mr B on 21 February 2022. 
Despite Mr B taking almost six months to complete and return the forms required for his 
instruction to be processed, Sanlam has accepted that its failure to send out the required 
forms on 21 February 2022 led to Mr Bs request not being carried out in a timely fashion. It 
committed to providing redress for any future additional tax Mr B might have to pay as a 
result of his instructions not being processed when he wanted. 
Sanlam wrote to Mr B to tell him what it still needed from him in order to process his claim 
and carry out the redress calculations. This included income tax information so that it could 
accurately calculate what the losses were. 
Mr B provided different tax information from that Sanlam had requested. He felt that Sanlam 
shouldve been able to work out what the income tax loss was from the information hed 
provided. But Sanlam said it needed documentary evidence.An accurate calculation wouldnt be possible until after the end of the tax year in which 
Sanlam made the final payment from Mr Bs policies. I say this because Sanlam couldnt 
reasonably be asked to carry out a tax loss calculation based on estimated figures that it had 
no documentary evidence for. And accurate income tax information for Mr B would only be 
available after the end of the 2023 tax year.
Therefore, I consider that Sanlam acted reasonably when it asked Mr B for additional 
information. And although I do understand that Mr B has become very frustrated with how 
long the loss calculation is taking, I cant reasonably say that Sanlam was in a position to 
carry out that calculation until after it had received the information it needed from him in May 
2023.
I next considered if Sanlams offer of compensation was fair.
Was Sanlams offer fair?
As our investigator said, our approach is to ensure that if a business has done something 
wrong, it will need to put the consumer back in the position they shouldve been in, had the 
error not occurred.
Sanlams failure to send the required forms to Mr B on 21 February 2022 led to him paying 
additional income tax that he wouldnt have paid had his instructions been followed. It also 
led to Mr B being deprived of the use of the after-tax value of half of his policies value for 
several months. 
Mr B has also clearly been frustrated at how long the process to put things right has taken. 
Its also taken him time and effort to try to get a resolution to his complaint. But I agree with 
our investigator that the only evidence of an error by Sanlam is that it didnt send the 
required forms in February 2022. It apologised for this oversight, sent Mr B a hamper, and 
said it would compensate Mr B for the additional income tax hed incurred. 
Im satisfied that Sanlams offer was broadly reasonable. This is because I agree with our 
investigator that although there was a wider impact of the error, it was a relatively small one. 
However, I intend to uphold the complaint. I say this because I consider that Sanlam should 
also pay Mr B interest on the funds he didnt receive in April 2022, as it effectively deprived 
him of that money for a period of time. It should also pay interest on the overpayment of tax, 
as Mr B has also been deprived of this money. I also intend to ask Sanlam to cover Mr Bs 
postage costs incurred during his complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
Sanlam didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr B said he broadly agreed with my provisional decision. But that he wanted to make a 
couple of points:
Hed only failed to return the forms in a more timely manner because hed never 
received them in the first place
He felt that the start date for accruing interest should be one day later than Id 
suggested. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs rationale for amending the start date, but I dont consider his suggestion 
to be materially different to the start date in my provisional decision. 
As no new information has come to light, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
What I require Sanlam to do
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sanlam to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the administrative error, which led to delays. Sanlam is 
prepared to concede that the first 50% payment shouldve been made on 4 April 2022, so I 
will use this for the first payment date. 
But Mr B only returned the required forms for the process on 8 November 2022. And this led 
to his funds being paid to him on 6 December 2022. Therefore I consider that a reasonable 
date to use for when the second payment shouldve taken place is 6 December 2022. 
Income tax loss calculation
I require Sanlam to ensure that Mr B ends up paying the same £ amount of income tax on 
his policies funds as he wouldve paid if his funds had been paid out as follows:
50% of the 4 April 2022 fund value paid out on 4 April 2022
The remaining fund value paid out on 6 December 2022.
Sanlam therefore needs to calculate what tax shouldve been paid over the two tax years 
that the payments shouldve been made in, and compare this with the income tax Mr B has 
actually paid on his income drawdown payments and on the final payment made on 6 
December 2022.
If the income tax actually paid by Mr B is greater than the income tax he shouldve paid, 
Sanlam should pay Mr B the difference, uprated if necessary to allow for the fact that Mr B 
will be a basic rate taxpayer in the tax year 2023/2024. For the avoidance of doubt, if Mr B 
has overpaid tax by £5,000, Sanlam should pay him compensation of £6,250, to ensure that 
after 2023/2024 basic rate tax has been deducted Mr B is back to the position he shouldve 
been in. 
However, if Sanlam is able to pay the compensation in a way that doesnt attract income tax, 
it wont need to uprate the payment in the way Ive outlined above.
Loss of use interest
Mr B was deprived of the use of the after-tax value of 50% of his 4 April 2022 fund value 
from 4 April 2022 to 6 December 2022. He was also deprived of the use of the additional 
income tax he paid. Therefore I also require Sanlam to:
Calculate 8% annual simple interest on the after-tax value of 50% of Mr Bs 4 April 2022 fund value from 4 April 2022 to 6 December 2022.
Calculate 8% annual simple interest on the after-tax value of the income tax loss 
calculated above from 6 December 2022 to the date of my final decision.
Pay Mr B the total amount of the above calculations.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sanlam deducts income tax from any 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Sanlam should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Costs incurred
Mr B has also told this service that he can evidence £16.50 of postage costs, incurred when 
sending evidence to this service.
Therefore I also require Sanlam to reimburse Mr B £16.50 in respect of these costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. CASLP Ltd must take the actions 
detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman