DRN-3097784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Santander UK Plc turned down their application to port their 
mortgage to a new property they wanted to buy.
As they wanted to move house, they applied to a different lender to complete the purchase 
and incurred an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) for redeeming the Santander mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022, the findings of which said:
Santander said the LTV would be higher on the new property as the purchase price was 
lower than the sale price of the existing property. Mr and Mrs T borrowed £550,000 in 
2017 against a property value at that time of £700,000; an LTV of 79%.
If the port had been agreed at the full outstanding mortgage amount, then the LTV would 
have been 78% so broadly in line with that which was originally agreed in 2017. Using the 
sale price Mr and Mrs T had agreed for their property of £710,000, the LTV would have 
increased following the port.
In any event though, Mr and Mrs T said they were willing to reduce the LTV to the level it 
was at that time on the existing mortgage. So, the potential risks an increase in the LTV 
could have represented was no longer something Santander needed to consider.
The application was turned down because Santander was concerned about Mr Ts 
employment and income. Hed recently changed from being employed to self-employed 
(under an umbrella company) and so he was unable to provide the evidence Santander 
wanted to prove his income. Due to this Santander considered the application 
unaffordable.
However, thats not the end of the matter. In situations like this, where an existing 
borrower is moving house and borrowing the same amount or less, a lender can set aside 
some of the rigorous lending checks it would otherwise have to carry out.
The rules of mortgage regulation are set out in the Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook  usually known as MCOB  which is issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules significantly changed in April 2014 following 
the completion of the FCAs mortgage market review (MMR).
One of the outcomes of MMR was a much stricter assessment of affordability for all 
lending. But the FCA recognised that this might cause difficulties for existing borrowers, 
so it introduced flexibility to allow for exceptions to be made. It did this through two new 
rules  11.6.3 and 11.7.1. Their effects are different, and this is a case that falls under 
rule 11.6.3.
The requirement to carry out an affordability assessment is contained in rule 11.6.2. But 
thats qualified by rule 11.6.3, which says that the requirement doesnt apply if:
the application doesnt involve further borrowing (except to add fees to the loan); and
there is no other change to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material to 
affordability.
Mr and Mrs T werent looking to take further borrowing. Instead they said they would be 
willing to reduce the balance to keep the LTV the same. Nor was there any other change 
to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material to affordability. That means this case 
falls within rule 11.6.3  and so there was no requirement to carry out an affordability 
assessment.
Santander has said that as the affordability assessment had already been carried out 
before the broker said Mr and Mrs T could proceed with a lower loan amount (to keep the 
LTV the same) then the result of that couldnt be disregarded. Ive considered that 
argument very carefully, but Im not persuaded by it as I dont think that treats 
Mr and Mrs T fairly.
Im satisfied this port would have been in Mr and Mrs Ts best interests. Mr and Mrs T 
already had a mortgage of around £500,000 with Santander secured against a property 
worth £710,000. That mortgage was held on a repayment basis with a remaining term of 
21-years and monthly payments of around £2,400. The new mortgage would have been 
around £460,000 on a repayment basis with the same remaining term of 21-years, and 
the new monthly payment would have been around £2,200  a reduction of around £200 
a month.
Santander already carried the risk of the mortgage, and if Mr and Mrs T hadnt decided to 
move house then it would still carry that risk secured against that previous property. So 
the new mortgage didnt represent anything new for Santander, and in fact it would have 
been a slightly lower risk as the monthly payment on  and the balance of - the potential 
new mortgage would have been lower than on Mr and Mrs Ts existing mortgage.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Santander didnt treat Mr and Mrs T fairly 
when it declined - on affordability grounds - their request to port their mortgage at the 
same LTV.
Fair redress
Theres nothing else that Ive been made aware of that I think would likely have resulted 
in the application not going ahead. So if Santander hadnt declined the application on
affordability grounds (which Ive already provisionally concluded was unfair) Ive no 
reason to believe Mr and Mrs Ts Santander mortgage wouldnt have been transferred to 
their new property at the same LTV.As Santander declined their request to port their mortgage Mr and Mrs T arranged a
mortgage elsewhere and there were costs involved in that. To that end I order Santander 
to:
Refund the ERC that Mr and Mrs T incurred when the mortgage was redeemed in 
January 2021 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from the date the ERC was charged 
to the date of settlement.
I understand Mr and Mrs T made some capital reductions within their overpayment
allowance in the period between the application being declined by Santander and 
them redeeming their mortgage. This shows they had the funds available to utilize the
overpayment allowance and thus reduce the ERC liability. Im satisfied they would 
have done the same if this mortgage had been ported to avoid paying an ERC on the 
capital reduction they would have needed to make to keep the LTV the same. For that 
reason Im satisfied the full ERC they paid should be refunded to them.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs T provided shows that the new interest rate they 
received is higher than what they would have had if they ported their mortgage with 
Santander. Santander should compare the costs of the amount it should have ported 
(that is, an amount with an equivalent LTV as the mortgage was at the time it was 
redeemed) on its rate of 2.04% to Mr and Mrs Ts new rate of 2.12%. That calculation 
should be carried out on a repayment basis for a mortgage with a 21-year term. The 
difference in the monthly payments for the period from January 2021 until the 
Santander rate would have ended in January 2023 should be paid to Mr and Mrs T. 
Although Mr and Mrs T have made some of these payments already, I do not intend 
to require Santander to add 8% interest to these overpayments. Thats because the 
loss incurred by having paid too much in the past is offset by the benefit of having 
future overpayments refunded upfront, before they are required to be paid to the new 
lender.
Refund the £1,495 product fee incurred by Mr and Mrs T with their new lender, plus 
simple annual interest of 8%* from the date the product fee was paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my
award it may do so but it should give Mr and Mrs T the necessary paperwork, if they ask 
for it, so they can reclaim any tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
I dont think Santander has handled this matter well and Mr and Mrs T had to make a 
further application they wouldnt otherwise have needed to, which I believe likely caused 
them inconvenience. Im conscious that the application was, in my view, considered 
relatively promptly by Santander bearing in mind this was in June/July 2020 so Covid 
would have had an impact  even if it did in my view reach the wrong outcome when 
considering the application. So, taking everything into account, I think a payment of £200 
for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of matters would be fair here.
Both sides accepted my provisional findings.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.Putting things right
I order Santander UK Plc to:
Refund the full ERC that Mr and Mrs T incurred when the mortgage was redeemed in 
January 2021 plus simple annual interest of 8%* from the date the ERC was charged 
to the date of settlement.
Compare the costs of the amount it should have ported (that is, an amount with an 
equivalent LTV as the mortgage was at the time it was redeemed) on its rate of 
2.04% to Mr and Mrs Ts new rate of 2.12%. That calculation should be carried out 
on a repayment basis for a mortgage with a 21-year term. The difference in the 
monthly payments for the period from January 2021 until the Santander rate would 
have ended in January 2023 should be paid to Mr and Mrs T. 
Refund the £1,495 product fee incurred by Mr and Mrs T with their new lender, plus 
simple annual interest of 8%* from the date the product fee was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs T
* If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so but it should give Mr and Mrs T the necessary paperwork, if they ask for 
it, so they can reclaim any tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman