DRN-1660513
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd has declined his claim on his group 
income protection policy. And also with how it has treated him.
What happened
Mr R is part of a group income protection policy scheme through his employer. He went off 
work sick at the end of November 2018. He had to be off work for six months before he 
was eligible to claim on his policy, so he was first able to put in a claim from May 2019. 
Due to delays in Zurich receiving notification of Mr R being off work, it wasnt able to start 
looking into his claim until after this date.
Zurich reached an outcome on the claim in November 2019. It didnt accept the claim, as 
it said that Mr R didnt meet the definition of incapacity under the policy. It determined, 
based on the information it held, that he was primarily off work due to workplace stress. It 
said that this had then caused his existing mental health issues to decline. It felt that he 
could work if it wasnt for the workplace stress, which in itself wasnt an illness  as hed 
previously been able to work with his mental health problems. Mr R disagreed with the 
claim outcome.
In the process of the claim being investigated Mr R encountered some communication 
problems with Zurich. He felt it was delaying his case and that it had breached the Equality 
Act 2010. He explained that he met the definition of disabled under this Act, so Zurich 
should have made reasonable adjustments for him.
In September 2019, Zurich contacted Mr R and asked to speak over the phone with him to 
better understand his situation. He replied to this and requested to address further points 
in writing, but Zurich didnt respond to this email. And it didnt respond to his further email 
two days later. Zurich decided Mr Rs case on the information it held around two months 
after these emails. Mr R considers hes been disadvantaged by Zurich not responding to 
him and so not allowing him to communicate in writing.
Mr R complained about the claims outcome, delays and discrimination to Zurich, but it 
didnt uphold his complaint. It determined it had reached the correct outcome on the claim 
and said that it didnt consider it did need further information, which is why it didnt respond 
to Mr R. He disagreed, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint overall. She said the claim had been fairly 
assessed based on the information Zurich held. It was agreed that if Mr R provided consent 
Zurich could contact his GP for further information. But her assessment dealt with the 
review of the claim until November 2019. She did accept that Zurich should have replied to 
Mr Rs emails, even if this was only to acknowledge receipt and then confirm that in fact 
nothing more was needed. But she said she didnt feel compensation was warranted for 
this error and she didnt agree it had discriminated against Mr R. He didnt agree with her 
assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Zurich and Mr R agreed to further 
discuss his situation, following our assessment. This decision only relates to the situation 
up to November 2019, when Zurich issued its response to the above complaint points. 
This decision doesnt cover and will not comment on anything which has happened since 
or is currently ongoing for Mr Rs group policy.
Ive reviewed the medical information Zurich was provided for Mr Rs claim, as well as 
his testimony and the policy documentation. Based on the information we hold, I dont 
think Zurich has acted unfairly in declining Mr Rs claim. Ill explain my reasons.
Under the policy wording, Mr R has to meet the definition of incapacity in order to claim. 
This is accepted by Mr R, but he is arguing that he is off work due to his mental health 
issues, which are now preventing him being able to work. He accepts these were triggered 
by workplace stress, but argues that his mental illnesses now prevent him from being fit to 
work at all.
I appreciate Mr Rs point about his mental health issues reaching the point where he cant 
return to any work, regardless of whether it was at his employer or elsewhere. However, we 
dont have medical evidence that states this. Mr R has referenced the fit notes his doctor 
has completed to say he isnt fit to work, but these are completed in the context of 
explaining to his employer why hes off sick. So I dont consider it appropriate to apply the 
information on these beyond Mr Rs actual job.
The policy looks at whether Mr R can do the duties of his employment, rather than go into 
his work and do his job. This is key to this case, because  where a workplace issue has 
occurred  this may be the root cause of the sickness absence and the inability to return to 
work. And this is the argument that Zurich is making here.
Mr Rs fit notes consistently list work related stress as the reason hes off work between 
December 2018 and April 2019 (accepting that as the April 2019 states ongoing, it 
references the ones before it). And this is the qualifying period for Mr R to be able to claim 
on his policy. His doctor also suggested, in the write-up of an appointment in February 
2019, that they were hoping Mr R would be able to return to work with adjustments in the 
next two months. This letter explains that Mr Rs background history of mental health 
issues will remain  so it seems his doctor is expecting Mr R to be able to return to work 
despite his mental health issues. Im also aware that Mr R suffered from these prior to his 
absence in November 2018 and was working.
Taking into account the information Ive seen about what was going on at Mr Rs work 
prior to his absence, his doctors letter and fit notes, I dont think Zurich has unfairly 
declined his claim. Based on the information it had, I dont think its acted unreasonably in 
saying Mr R doesnt meet the definition of incapacity, as workplace stress itself isnt an 
illness and it seems this is the trigger for his other health conditions and a key factor in his 
absence.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs points in relation to discrimination against him by Zurich, under 
the Equality Act 2010. However I dont agree he has been discriminated against. Im in 
agreement with our investigator that Zurich provided a poor service to Mr R by not 
responding to his emails, but I also agree that this doesnt constitute discrimination.When Mr R asked for an adjustment, Zurich didnt ignore his request and contact him by 
phone, for example. And I note in his email he stated he would prefer to correspond in 
writing going forward  he didnt set out this was something he needed. But in any event, 
Zurich only contacted him in writing after this email. And Zurich has told us it didnt 
consider it needed anything further from Mr R after his response and determined it could 
obtain more information, if required, from his employer. So I havent seen evidence at this 
time that he received different treatment or a different claims outcome from Zurich due to it 
not emailing him back.
However, its clear from Mr Rs contact with Zurich that he was finding the claims process 
difficult. So even if Zurich didnt consider it required anything more from Mr R, I think in this 
case it shouldve acknowledged his emails. And I can understand why he considered it did 
require more, as it had suggested a conversation with him would be useful to assessing 
the case. So Zurich should have responded to Mr R and explained that it now considered it 
did have enough information to assess the case without a conversation. Or that it would 
contact his employer if needed. However, I dont consider this instance of poor service 
does warrant a monetary compensation award in this case.
Ive reviewed the timeline of Mr Rs claim and do accept it took longer to reach a claims 
outcome than wed ideally expect. However, I am aware that issues outside of Zurichs 
control contributed to the time it took. I understand why Mr R wanted to be involved in the 
claims process and review the documentation exchanged between parties, but I also have 
to therefore acknowledge that this also added time to the overall process. And I cant 
comment on any potential delays caused by Mr Rs employer and its actions. Looking at 
Zurichs handling of the claim alone, I dont consider it caused any deliberate delays or 
delayed the claim to the point where compensation is due. So Im not awarding any 
compensation in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
Amy Osborne
 
Ombudsman