DRN-3039247
The complaint
Mr C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his building insurance claim.
All references to Aviva also include its agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr C was experiencing issues with his drains. So in January 2020 Mr C 
commissioned a contractor to carry out a CCTV survey of the drains
Mr Cs contractor said there was a large open section of pipe causing water to 
infiltrate the line. They recommended excavating and repairing the open joint Mr C 
contacted Aviva, who sent its own contractor in January 2020. Avivas contractors 
initially believed there had been a collapse in a section of drain and recommended 
excavating and replacing it
Aviva returned to the property in February 2020. They said during further 
investigation they found the drain had not collapsed  but there was a badly 
displaced joint
Aviva concluded this issue could be rectified by installing a patch liner to seal and 
strengthen the defective section of the pipe
While on site, Aviva said they discovered a tank and further parts of drainage were 
backing up
Aviva believed this to be related to the soak away reaching the end of its serviceable
lifespan  which it said was excluded from cover under the policy
Mr C raised concerns with Aviva about the repair being lasting and effective  as
both his contractor and Avivas had previously recommended replacing it
Aviva revisited the property in March 2020 to carry out an inspection including a
CCTV survey. It had been agreed with Mr C they would share its findings, including
photographs with him
However, Aviva were unable to complete their investigations as the tank had filled up
again, and required emptying
Aviva attended again around two weeks later and completed a CCTV survey on the
drains
Aviva concluded the patch liner had been fitted to industry standard and the drain
was now free flowing and in a serviceable condition
Aviva also said the issues previously identified with the tank filling was due to a failed
soakaway, which had reached the end of its serviceable life
Aviva concluded all insurable repairs had been completed at the property and
therefore, no further repair work was required
In June 2021 Mr C chased Aviva for the outcome from the inspections, he also
contacted Aviva again in July 2021 to say he still hadnt received a response
Following this Aviva wrote to Mr C. They said the remaining issues with the drains
were excluded from cover due to faulty workmanship and wear tear. So, it considered
all insurable work to have been completed
Mr C was provided a copy of Avivas report, but says he has not been provided with
photographic proof a lasting and effective repair has been completed
Mr C was unhappy with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to our service
Our investigator said the patch liner had seemed to resolve the issue and had not seen
anything to persuade her the repair was ineffective. She said it wasnt unreasonable for
Aviva to rely on the findings of their contractors  and considering the information available
she thought Aviva had fairly applied the exclusion when concluding all insurable repairs had
been completed.
She didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He said Aviva had promised to provide him with
photographic evidence of the repair to prove it was satisfactory  and have failed to do so.
He requested the matter be passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has a full and last repair been completed?
Aviva is entitled to review their position if further information comes to light. In this case,
during further investigation, Aviva say they discovered the drain had not collapsed as initially
thought but a joint in the pipe was badly displaced. Because of this they believed a patch
repair could be completed rather than excavating and replacing the pipe.
I appreciate why Mr Cs concerns the repair might have not been sufficient  as both his
contractor and Aviva initially recommended excavating and replacing the pipe. But Aviva
confirmed in their investigations in March 2021 the patch lined section was running without
defect and had been installed to industry standard. Ive also not seen anything that suggests
any further defects have arisen with the area in question since.
Aviva have provided me with the CCTV survey carried out in March 2021 and an updated
report which includes photographs of the area repaired with the patch. From reviewing theseand the information available Ive not seen anything in the photos that persuades me the
repair isnt lasting or effective. So I think Aviva have acted fairly here.
Photographic evidence of full and lasting repair not being provided
Mr C first raised concerns around the effectiveness of the patch repair around February 
2021. In March 2021 Aviva told Mr C they would return to his property to survey
the area of concern. As the tanks were full, Aviva had to return around two weeks later. As
Aviva had previously had to empty the tanks to complete inspections, I can understand why
Mr Cs frustration this wasnt anticipated. Aviva said they would provide photographs
showing the repair to Mr C following the survey.
However, I can see Mr C has chased Aviva for this information on several occasions but has
never received it. Given the concerns Mr C shared with Aviva, I think this would have
provided much needed assurance about the effectiveness of the repair. And as he was
promised this by Aviva, I can understand his frustration he has never received it.
With this in mind I think Aviva should pay Mr C £100 compensation as I think this fairly
reflects the inconvenience he has been caused.
Remainder of the claim
I can see Aviva has said they consider all insurable works to be completed  and the other
issues highlighted during their investigations, such as the failed soakaway were excluded
under the policy.
But I cant see this aspect forms part of the complaint Mr C has brought to our service. So, I
wont be commenting on this here.
Responses to my provisional findings
Aviva responded to say accept my provisional findings.
Mr C provided further comments. He said he felt any compensation should reflect the cost to 
him so far  including the excess fee and insurance premium.
Mr C also said he still had not received photographic evidence of a satisfactory repair. 
Following this, I sent Mr C a copy of the CCTV survey completed by Aviva. Mr C reiterated 
his disappointment that this information had not been shared with him previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
Aviva have provided me with the CCTV survey carried out in March 2021 and a
report which includes photographs of the area repaired with the patch. From reviewing these
and the information available Ive not seen anything in the photos that persuades me the
repair isnt lasting or effective. So I think Aviva have acted fairly here.I can see Mr C chased Aviva for the information promised regarding the repairs on several 
occasions but never received it. But the compensation Ive recommended is to acknowledge 
the inconvenience Mr C has been caused  not to cover the cost of his claim. 
While I can understand Mr Cs frustration, paying an excess fee is a normal part of making 
an insurance claim and the premium he has paid has provided him with the cover. And as 
Ive explained above, Im not persuaded the repair completed by Aviva isnt full, lasting and 
effective.
So with this in mind I still think Aviva should pay Mr C £100 compensation as it fairly reflects 
the inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman