DRN-3825186
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax caused two County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) to be placed against him without warning.
What happened
Mr A had various products and accounts with Halifax. This included an overdraft on one of 
his accounts and a loan. 
In 2018 Mr A became aware that he had two CCJs registered against him. He contacted 
Halifax and it found that correspondence had been going to an address that he no longer 
lives at, due to a manual change made by Halifax. This meant that letters sent about debt 
recovery and the CCJs hadnt been received by Mr A. 
He made a complaint that was initially rejected by Halifax. However after raising the matter 
with the CEO, Halifax reconsidered its position. It wrote to Mr A to explain that it would have 
the CCJs removed and pay £1,000 compensation to make up for its error.
Mr A was unhappy with this, he said that Halifax had caused the debt in the first place due to 
its handling of his insurance claims and the mis-sale of the account linked to the overdraft. 
He said the impact of the matter had caused him significant mental health issues, which had 
led to a period off work at a reduced salary. And hed missed out on a project abroad 
because of it, which caused him reputational damage and loss of earnings. He brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, so Mr A asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has had a number of issues with Halifax over the last few years, which have given him 
cause to complain. This includes complaints about claims on his home insurance provided 
by Halifax and the mis-selling of a package bank account. In this complaint I am only looking 
at the issues surrounding the two CCJs that were registered against Mr A. And while the 
context of other complaints is helpful in my understanding of this complaint, this decision will 
only focus on the issues relating to the CCJs.
Mr A has provided a vast amount of information about the complaint and the background 
leading up to it. I can see the events of the last few years and beyond, have had a profound 
impact on Mr As life and I was sorry to read about his ill health and the problems hes had 
with his work and other projects. I want to reassure Mr A that Ive considered everything he 
has said when reaching my decision. 
The crux of this complaint is that CCJs were registered against Mr A without his knowledge. 
And this was due to Halifax incorrectly amending his correspondence address, which meant 
Mr A didnt receive letters warning him of the upcoming actions that were being taken.
Halifax has accepted that the change of address caused correspondence to go to an 
address Mr A doesnt live at, which meant he wasnt aware the debt was being sold or that it 
was being taken to a CCJ. And while the process Halifax followed wasnt incorrect in itself, it 
does accept its actions have caused detriment here. I agree it should have done more to 
ensure it provided the correct address and it had enough information to have been able to do 
so. As I agree that Halifax got something wrong, I need to determine if its done enough to 
put things right. 
In order to decide this, I first need to consider what would have happened if Halifax hadnt 
made an error. If Halifax hadnt changed Mr As address then the debt would still have been 
owed and its likely that it would still have been sold to the debt collections agencies. As Mr 
A hadnt paid it off up until this point and Ive seen nothing to show that he likely would have 
cleared the debt immediately.
However he would have been made aware of the forthcoming CCJ and would have had the 
opportunity to make representations with the hope of stopping it from being applied. As he 
hadnt been aware of the threat, he didnt have this opportunity. 
Further, Mr A was first aware of the issue in 2018 and raised it with Halifax at this point. 
However Halifax initially rejected his complaint about the issue and said it wouldnt be taking 
any action. And it took Mr A writing to the CEO of the company for it to reverse this decision 
and take steps to remove the CCJ. This process took two years which is much longer than it 
should have taken. And during this time Mr A was caused the undue distress and 
inconvenience of having the matter hanging over him and of having to repeatedly contact 
Halifax. 
If Halifax hadnt provided an incorrect address and Mr A had been in receipt of the letters 
informing him of the situation, he would still have been caused some distress. As the 
process of having a CCJ threat against him would have been distressing in itself. However I 
agree that Halifax could have done more to resolve the issue more quickly for Mr A and that 
because it didnt, Mr A was caused additional distress that could have been avoided.
Mr A has said that during this time, the CCJ caused issues with a project he was working on 
oversees that he says he had to pull out of due to having adverse information on his credit 
file. Hes also said that the stress of this, and other matters relating to Halifax, has caused 
him to take extended sick leave from work which caused him financial loss.
I dont doubt Mr As account and agree this would have been very stressful and may have 
caused some reputational damage and loss of earnings. However as Ive explained above, it 
isnt clear that had Halifax not given an incorrect address for Mr A, that the CCJ would have 
been avoided completely. He would just have had the opportunity to engage with it. So I 
cant say that it is solely Halifaxs fault that Mr A experienced these difficulties.
Based on this, I can see that Halifaxs error has caused Mr A some significant distress. 
However the error didnt cause the debt, that was owed before the error occurred. And its 
likely it would have been passed to external companies even if Mr A had been informed, and 
the CCJs may still have been applied. Halifax has now arranged for the CCJs to be removed 
and has bought back the debt from the third parties, and I agree this was the right thing to do 
in the circumstances. Its also offered £1,000 compensation to make up for the distress its error has caused him. 
And this is in line with the amount I would have asked it to pay, if it hadnt already offered. So 
I think this is enough to make up for the additional distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A as he feels the compensation should be 
much greater due to the impact the situation has had on him. And I dont mean to diminish 
the very difficult period he has been through. However I can only ask Halifax to compensate 
for the impact of its actions, and not due to the impact of the debt itself. And here Ive found 
that while Halifaxs error certainly made matters worse for Mr A, Im not persuaded he would 
have avoided the distress he has suffered due to the debt if he had received the letters. I 
therefore cant hold Halifax responsible for the full impact Mr A has described, as Im 
persuaded that some of it would have been experienced due to the situation, rather than due 
to Halifaxs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman