DRN-3436809
The complaint
Mr P and Ms P complain Santander UK Plc didnt send account correspondence separately 
to Mr Ps own address, causing adverse information to be added to his credit record. 
What happened
Mr P and Ms P had a joint Santander current account. Mr P says they separated, and 
Ms P didnt agree he could be removed from the account. So Mr P says he called Santander 
around late July or early August 2020 to tell it about the separation and ask it to send him 
copies of future account correspondence and statements to his own address. 
In early 2021, the account went into an unarranged overdraft. Between February and June 
2021 Santander sent arrears letters, saying the overdraft should be repaid, a repayment 
arrangement could be considered, and information would be shared with credit reference 
agencies. However, these letters were sent only to Ms Ps address. 
The overdraft wasnt repaid, so on 9 July 2021 Santander sent a notice of default letter to 
both Mr P and Ms P at their respective addresses. The letter said the overdraft must be 
repaid within 14 days, and set out the consequences if it wasnt. Mr P called Santander 
about this on 19 July 2021. Santanders contact notes show that in this call, Mr P said hed 
asked for account correspondence to be sent to his own address but hadnt received any 
until now. That Santander said the account was £558.87 overdrawn, and Mr P said repaying 
wasnt the issue, but he was concerned his credit record had been affected. And that 
Santander told Mr P he was jointly liable for the debt and logged a complaint for him. 
In its written complaint response dated 23 July 2021, Santander said that unless both Mr P 
and Ms P had submitted forms to remove Mr P from the account, Mr P was still responsible 
for this debt and its effect on his credit record. 
Mr P called Santander again on 26 July 2021, as hed not yet received its written complaint 
response. Santanders contact notes show Santander told Mr P it hadnt upheld the 
complaint and that letters would generally go to the lead (first named) account holder, 
except for notice of default letters which would be sent separately to both account holders. 
Santander also told Mr P the default deadline was now very close, and sent him a budget 
planner. Mr P said Ms P would be repaying the overdraft too and he would speak to her. 
Santander sent Mr P a further written complaint response dated 4 August 2021. This 
included a copy of its letter dated 23 July 2021, and confirmed Santander had made online 
statements available to Mr P. It also said that while Mr P might not have been using the 
account, both he and Ms P were jointly and severally liable for the overdraft debt.
Mr P came to our Service, saying he didnt have access to the account after he and 
Ms P separated. And Santander hadnt sent account correspondence to him separately as 
hed asked, so he hadnt known about the outstanding overdraft debt which had now 
affected his credit record. Mr P said if hed known, hed have taken action to prevent his 
credit record being affected. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Santander had explained its system 
only allowed it to send standard correspondence to the lead account holders address, 
though it could manually amend this when it was required to, as with the notice of default 
letters. Our Investigator thought that since Mr P had received the notice of default letter, hed 
had the opportunity to resolve things before a default was applied. 
Mr P disagreed. He said that when he called Santander after receiving the notice of default, 
it asked him to complete a budget planner but didnt provide the necessary password for 
this. And its call centre was closed at the only times Mr P could call, and it hung up on him. 
Mr P explained hed complained to Santander in an attempt to contact it and prevent a 
default. Mr P said Santander had never told him correspondence would only be sent to the 
lead account holders address. 
Our Investigator didnt think Mr Ps comments changed the outcome. She said Santander 
had eight weeks to address the complaint, and wasnt obliged to suspend any default action 
during this time. And that even if she thought Santander had promised to send 
correspondence to Mr P in August 2020 and made an error by not doing so, Mr P hadnt 
chased Santander when he didnt receive anything, and hed had access to online 
statements showing the account status in any case. 
As Mr P disagreed, this complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that around August 2020, he called Santander to ask for future account 
correspondence to be sent separately to his own address, but it didnt do so. Santander says 
it only keeps call recordings for six months and hasnt been able to find the call recordings in 
question. This means I cant hear for myself what Mr P discussed with Santander. But 
Santander has provided its contact notes of Mr Ps calls on 19 and 26 July 2021. The 19 July 
2021 call note says Mr P told Santander hed previously asked it to send him 
correspondence to his own address. So it may be that this is something Mr P asked for.
But even if I accepted that Santander had agreed to this and then made an error by not 
doing so, Mr P would have known he hadnt received any paper correspondence or 
statements from Santander regarding this account in the year or so since his request. And 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest Mr P followed this up with Santander 
prior to receiving the notice of default in July 2021. In addition, Mr P told us Ms P didnt 
agree to him being removed from the account. So its reasonable to think Mr P knew he was 
still an account holder even if he wasnt using the account himself. 
Regardless of any paper correspondence, Santanders system records show Mr P continued 
to regularly access his account online between August 2020 and August 2021.  Santander 
has confirmed account statements were available to Mr P online, and the statements Ive 
been provided with show that the account was overdrawn by £558.87. So Santander made 
information available to Mr P that showed the account was in debt. 
Santander doesnt dispute it didnt send arrears letters to Mr Ps address. Its explained this 
is a limitation of its system. So its not an error. And I should be clear its not for our Service 
to tell financial businesses how their systems should operate. But Santander did send Mr P a 
notice of default letter. Its important to note the regulations say these letters must be sent to 
account holders by post, and Santander has explained it sent the notice to Mr P manually. 
Im satisfied Mr P received this notice, because he then called Santander about it. Santanders call records show the outcome of Mr Ps 26 July 2021 call was that Santander 
sent Mr P a budget planner, and Mr P said he would speak to Ms P about the debt. Mr P 
says Santander didnt provide the budget planner password he needed.  Even if I accepted 
Santander hadnt provided Mr P with a necessary password, Id expect Mr P to contact 
Santander about that to mitigate the impact on him. Mr P says Santanders call centre was 
closed when he was available to call, and it hung up on him. But Santanders records show 
Mr P was able to call it on more than one occasion after receiving the notice of default, when 
it made him aware he was also responsible for the debt and the default deadline was very 
close. In addition, Santanders website says that most days, its call centre is open outside 
the times Mr P says hes unavailable. The website also gives other ways of getting in touch. 
Mr P says he complained to try to make contact and resolve things. But the rules set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority allow financial businesses like Santander eight weeks to 
issue their final complaint response. Santander did so within three weeks, well within this 
timescale. And Santander isnt obliged to suspend debt recovery while a complaint is 
underway. 
Mr P suggests he wasnt using the account, and is concerned Santander is only pursuing 
him for the debt and not Ms P. But the account terms and conditions say both account 
holders are responsible (individually and together) for any money you owe us, and Ive 
seen that Santander has pursued Ms P for this debt too. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Santander took reasonable steps to let Mr P 
know about the overdraft debt on the account and the notice of default. So Im not asking it 
to do anything further here, though I realise this isnt the answer Mr P hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman