DRN-2669860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about poor and misleading advice from London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd when they asked for help extending the term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P contacted L&C in mid-November 2019. Their interest only mortgage was due 
to expire in mid-December 2019. L&C said it would apply on their behalf to their lender for a 
new product and to extend the term. This was an error: the lender said Mr and Mrs P had to 
apply to it directly for a term extension and not through an intermediary. 
Mr and Mrs P say L&C misled them that it would be able to arrange a term extension and 
new product with their existing lender. They say L&C should have known their ages meant 
their lender wouldnt offer this. They say L&C failed to look for other options for them. Mr and 
Mrs P say L&C then abandoned them a few days before their mortgage term expired, 
leaving them no time to make other arrangements. 
L&C accepted it made an error when it said it could arrange a term extension on behalf of Mr 
and Mrs P. It offered £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs P say this isnt enough. They were left 
facing possession action from the lender over several months until they were able to re-
mortgage. 
Our investigator said L&C should have known that Mr and Mrs P would have to apply directly 
to their mortgage lender for a term extension. However, Mr and Mrs P asked L&C for help 
less than a month before the term of their mortgage was due to expire. L&C wasnt 
responsible for the difficulties Mr and Mrs P faced with their term expiring, their lenders 
decision or the time it took them to re-mortgage elsewhere. The investigator said £200 was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said L&C failed to recommend a suitable mortgage and 
seemed to be unaware of mortgage products available for people in retirement. Mr P said 
L&C had told him in mid-December 2019 their lender didnt offer mortgages to people of their 
age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P say they had phone calls with L&C where they were given incorrect and 
misleading information. L&C says it doesnt have records of all of the calls Mr and Mrs P 
refer to and so cant provide recordings. I should say here that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. While I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration that 
L&C cant provide recordings of the calls they refer to, I think that I have enough evidence 
from both parties to reach a fair decision. 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage term was due to expire with an unpaid balance and they asked 
L&C for mortgage advice. Mr P said they asked L&C to recommend a suitable mortgage  
they didnt only ask it to look into a term extension. They expected L&C to look into what 
options might be available to them, such as re-mortgaging with another provider.
L&C did a fact find. This says Mr and Mrs P wanted to remain in their property for 5 to 6 
years. They intended to work past normal retirement age and the nature of their work meant 
this was possible. 
I think L&C did look for mortgages offered by other lenders. Its fact find says I am 
recommending you stay with your existing lender due to [lender] having the cheapest rates 
available to you. The fact find refers to another lender with a better rate having a maximum 
age for interest only mortgages that meant its product wasnt available to Mr and Mrs P.
I dont think L&Cs advice to Mr and Mrs P to ask their lender for a term extension was 
wrong, given the limited time available and that their lender offered the cheapest available 
rate. But L&C should have known, or checked with the lender, how to go about this. It 
shouldnt have told Mr and Mrs P it could arrange a term extension with their lender on their 
behalf. 
Mr and Mrs P says L&C misled them when their application was declined by their lender. 
They say L&C didnt tell them their application was declined due to their ages  something 
they say L&C should have known from the outset. I dont think this is fair. L&C provided a 
copy of the information it had from the lender which says where a mortgage term would go 
past age 70 or retirement age this would be considered on an individual basis, with evidence 
required of affordability. 
Once Mr and Mrs P applied to their lender for a term extension it was for the lender to decide 
whether to agree to this, taking into account rules of mortgage regulation, its own lending 
criteria and Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. I dont think its reasonable to say that L&C could 
have known what the outcome would be. Theres nothing to suggest that L&C knew the 
lender wouldnt agree to a term extension because of Mr and Mrs Ps ages or any other 
reason. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs P were upset when L&C told them it couldnt arrange a 
term extension for them only a few days before their mortgage was due to expire. But their 
main problem was the imminent expiry of their mortgage term with an unpaid balance: L&C 
wasnt responsible for them seeking advice so close to the expiry date. 
L&Cs error  telling Mr and Mrs P it could arrange a term extension  likely delayed them 
contacting their lender by about three weeks. Mr and Mrs P say L&C wasnt clear enough 
when it did tell them theyd have to contact L&C directly to arrange the term extension. If so, 
from what they said this could only have delayed them doing so for a couple of days. I think 
its unlikely their lender would have agreed a term extension in one day as Mr P suggests. 
So while L&C caused a short delay, I dont think this changed the outcome here.
Mr and Mrs P say their lender told them it couldnt provide a mortgage to them because of 
Mr Ps age. If so, it seems likely the lender would have made the same decision if theyd 
contacted it a few weeks earlier. Mr and Mrs P would then have gone through the same 
process of applying to other lenders, with the term having expired in December 2019. If 
theyd wanted help applying to other lenders they could have contacted L&C and asked for 
help. 
Putting things rightIn the circumstances, I think £200 compensation for the upset caused by L&Cs error is fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd should pay £200 to Mr and Mrs P, as 
it offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman