DRN-2176083
The complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided his motor insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with MCE through a price comparison site. When his 
motorbike was stolen in February 2020, he tried to make a claim, but MCE avoided his policy 
because it said Mr B had not told it about an ongoing claim for a previous accident. MCE 
also said Mr B had not told it about a conviction hed received in 2019 but MCE didnt rely on 
this when it avoided his policy. 
MCE said Mr B answered the question it asked about any motor accidents, claims or losses 
hed had in the past five years incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate/reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because 
of this and keep the premiums hed already paid.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation - it was reckless - and 
that MCE were entitled to avoid his policy and retain the premium hed paid. Our investigator 
included Mr Bs failure to declare his conviction in their assessment. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr B 
said he felt the wording of the question applied only to his own personal insurance history 
which he says he answered honestly. He was also unhappy that the investigator had used 
the failure to declare the conviction as part of their investigation and reasoning for not 
upholding the complaint. 
Mr B said MCE hadnt used this as a reason to avoid his claim and he felt it was unfair that 
the investigator had. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision. I 
issued my provisional decision in August 2020, explaining why I thought Mr B had been 
careless rather than reckless or deliberate in his misrepresentations. Here is what I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
From what Ive seen there appears to be two parts to Mr Bs complaint. The issue for which 
MCE has avoided his policy  the accident he was involved in  and the later issue of Mr B 
not telling MCE about a conviction he received. I think it will be easier for everyone involved 
if I discuss each point separately. 
The accident 
MCE thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered no to the question Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the 
past 5 years, no matter who was at fault or if a claim was made?. This was because Mr B 
had been involved in an accident a few months earlier and he had received a settlement 
figure from the third party. MCE has also said when Mr B completed the online application, 
Mr B would have seen a pop-up box which reiterated the importance of making sure all 
accidents, claims or losses were recorded. 
Ive looked at the question Mr B was asked and the wording he would have seen in the pop-
up box, and Im satisfied these were both clear in that it relates to any accident claim or loss 
and it also stipulates it doesnt matter who was at fault. Therefore, its not just about events 
that Mr B has had to use his own insurance to claim for. 
So, I dont agree that Mr B took reasonable steps when making sure he wasnt making a 
misrepresentation. I say this because  while I understand Mr B thought he was answering 
the question honestly  I think its most likely Mr B didnt read or understand the question 
properly. 
MCE has provided evidence which shows it would have still offered cover to Mr B if he had 
told them about the accident, but it would have been under different terms and for a higher 
premium. This means Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
MCE has said Mr Bs misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless because he was asked a 
clear question when he first took out his policy. 
I dont agree that Mr Bs misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate because there is 
nothing in what he or MCE has told us that leads me to think he didnt care whether he was 
giving the correct information. And nothing MCE has given us shows Mr B knew he was 
giving the wrong information. Given the fact that when he was asked the same question 
during the validation call when he was making the claim for the theft of his bike, Mr B 
provided the true answer, I think this was more a case of Mr B being careless in his 
misrepresentation. 
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, I dont think MCE 
are acting fairly by avoiding this policy and not paying this claim. As explained above, had 
MCE known about Mr Bs accident it would have offered the policy but under different terms 
and charged a higher premium. 
If there was only this issue to consider, I would be asking MCE to add the different terms 
from the point of misrepresentation and then assess Mr Bs claim in line with these terms. 
And as MCE has said it would have charged Mr B more, it could pay the claim proportionally. 
As this is MCEs remedy under CIDRA and CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases. However, there is still the matter of the conviction that Mr B didnt 
declare. The conviction 
When this service investigates a complaint, we look all of the circumstances surrounding the 
issue. So, as weve been made aware of the fact Mr B didnt disclose his conviction, we will 
take this into consideration when coming to an outcome on the complaint. Its unclear why  
as it knew about this issue  MCE didnt include it in its original investigation and address it 
in its final response. But I think MCE most likely didnt include it because it was already 
avoiding Mr Bs policy due to the misrepresentation about the accident. 
So, Im giving my provisional thoughts on this point to allow everyone the opportunity to 
come back with any further comments or evidence they want me to consider before I issue 
my final decision. I think this is the fairest outcome in the circumstances. 
As I dont think MCE was right to avoid Mr Bs policy for not letting it know about the 
accident, alone I need to decide  based on the information Ive been given so far  whether 
I think MCE would be entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy because he didnt declare his conviction. 
So again, I need to consider whether Mr B failed to take reasonable care. Ive looked at the 
question Mr B was asked  which was Have you or any person who will ride your bike been 
convicted of any motoring offence including Fixed Penalty Offences during the last 5 years 
or is any prosecution pending?...  and he had to select yes or no. I am satisfied the 
question is clear and unambiguous. Mr B selected no. However, Mr B had received a 
conviction in 2019 and points were added to his licence so he should have selected yes.  
Mr Bs answer of no to this question was also provided on the Statement of Fact that was 
provided to him. 
Mr B had a duty to make sure he took reasonable care to not misrepresent the information 
he gave MCE. From the information that has been provided, it doesnt look like Mr B 
reviewed his Statement of Fact because MCEs records show that only Mr Bs policy 
document has been accessed from its online portal and that was done just before he made 
his claim. 
The Statement of Fact shows under Riders History and the no box has been selected for 
the question about any convictions. Mr B told both MCE and the investigator that he thought 
he had declared his conviction. But it doesnt look like he made sure he had done this 
because had he checked he would have seen hed answered the question incorrectly. So, I 
think he has failed to take reasonable care. 
MCE has again provided evidence of its underwriting policy which shows, had Mr B said 
yes to having a conviction it would have still offered him a policy, but it would have been at 
a higher premium and under different terms. So, this misrepresentation was also a qualifying 
one. 
Our investigator considered Mr Bs representation was reckless because he didnt check he 
had provided the correct answer to MCE by reading his Statement of Fact. But looking at 
everything weve been given and told, I dont agree that Mr B was reckless in his 
misrepresentation. Again, when Mr B was asked directly about any convictions by MCE 
during the telephone call he had with it when he was making the claim for the theft of his 
bike, he answered with the correct information. This doesnt seem like the type of behaviour 
by someone who didnt care whether he was giving the correct answer.  Mr B has also been 
consistent in his recollections that he thought he had answered yes to the question. 
So, similarly to the previous issue, I think this is more a case that Mr B has been careless in 
his representation. As Im currently satisfied both of Mr Bs misrepresentations should be treated as careless, 
Ive looked at the actions MCE can take in accordance with CIDRA. As MCE has said it 
would have still offered Mr B a policy had he given the correct information, under CIDRA its 
not able to avoid Mr Bs policy. MCE should apply the different terms from the point of the 
misrepresentation and then assess Mr Bs claim in line with the correct terms. And as MCE 
said it would charge Mr B more, should there be no reason not to pay Mr Bs claim, it can 
pay the claim proportionality to reflect the amount Mr B has paid it compared to what he 
should have paid it. 
Considering all of this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint is that MCE 
should treat both the misrepresentations as if they were careless. So, MCE should do the 
following:
Reinstate the policy and remove the notification of the avoidance;
Re-rate the policy based on what it would have done had Mr B answered both 
questions correctly
Assess the claim in line with the new policy terms and if it decides to do so, settle the 
claim. Any claim can be settled proportionately. 
Both parties responded. Mr B stated he wasnt hiding anything deliberately or carelessly.   
Mr B also raised concerns that MCE wouldnt honour the claim or would artificially inflate the 
premiums he needed to pay. In its response, MCE reiterated its reasons as to why it thought 
Mr B had been deliberate or reckless in answering the questions. 
As both parties have now responded I am in the position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, my decision remains the same. I have considered the points MCE has 
mentioned in its response but overall there is nothing new in what it has said in its response 
then it did in its original submissions to us. Ive noted its point that Mr B declared his driving 
conviction when he completed a quote in November 2019. I think this point further 
strengthens my decision in that I dont think Mr B was being deliberate or reckless  but 
more he has been careless in answering the questions and this has led to a 
misrepresentation  as he wasnt hiding the matter a few months beforehand. So, this point 
doesnt change my decision. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs concerns. A lot of what hes said in response to my provisional 
decision is around the general behaviour of the insurance industry  in particular MCE. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustrations, my role is to look at MCEs individual behaviour regarding 
his complaint. But with regards to what Mr B has said about MCE not honouring his claim or 
increasing his premiums, if Mr B isnt happy with the amounts MCE quotes when it re-rates 
his policy and assess his claim, then he can raise a complaint about that.   
Ive noted Mr Bs comments around the emotional and financial impact this matter has had 
on him. And  although I have decided that MCE shouldve applied a different remedy under 
CIDRA than it did  I dont think Mr B took reasonable care in answering the questions when 
he took out his policy. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to apply any form of 
renumeration for any distress or inconvenience Mr B has experienced in this matter. Putting things right
As explained above, I think the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint is that MCE 
should treat both the misrepresentations as if they were careless. So, MCE should do the 
following:
Reinstate the policy and remove the notification of the avoidance;
Re-rate the policy based on what it would have done had Mr B answered both 
questions correctly
Assess the claim in line with the new policy terms and if it decides to do so, settle the 
claim. Any claim can be settled proportionately. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and MCE Insurance Company Limited should do as Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman