DRN-3233732
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with I Go 4 Ltd (IG4) the insurance broker which arranged his motor 
insurance policy. Mr B feels he received a poor service from it when he called it with 
concerns about an increase in premiums and then, also, when he said he wanted to cancel 
his policy.
Mr Bs mother has assisted him at times during his dealings with the broker, as well as with 
his complaint to this service. But for ease of reference, in my decision below, Ill mostly only 
refer to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B arranged cover via IG4 in February 2020. The cover requires Mr B to use a black-box 
while driving which gathers data which is used to afford him a driving behaviour score. The 
initial premium for cover is based on an assumption as to what that score will be. 
Unfortunately, after the box was fitted, Mr B wasnt achieving the assumed score and IG4 
wrote to him to say, based on the score he was achieving, his premium would double. But if 
his score went up (with a higher score showing better driving), his premium would likely 
come down. 
Mr B spoke to IG4, noting that, by this time, the national lockdown due to the pandemic 
meant he wasnt using the car much  and his score couldnt improve if he wasnt using the 
car. He also told IG4 that he wasnt working, as hed been furloughed due to the pandemic 
and he was experiencing some financial difficulties. IG4 said there was nothing it could do, 
but Mr B could cancel his policy, if he wanted to. Mr B asked if his policy could be 
suspended for a time, IG4 said this wasnt possible. When Mr B asked to speak to the 
insurer, IG4 said that wasnt possible  explaining that the insurer could only be contacted 
direct by the policyholder in the event of a claim. IG4 told Mr B that it would review his score 
in a month and if his driving had improved by ten points his premium would go down. Mr B 
said he could try and do a few short journeys, paying more attention to his driving  but he 
wouldnt be driving every day as normal. Mr B asked the representative whether, if he 
improved his driving in the next month, it would mean hed only need to pay one increased 
monthly payment (one being due in a week or so), with the following months payment 
decreasing to reflect the improvement. The representative agreed that was correct and Mr B 
decided to continue with his policy on that basis.
Mr B called IG4 again at the end of May. He was pleased that, whilst he hadnt driven much, 
every day he had driven his score had much improved  on average by about thirty points. 
But IG4 said to Mr B that, as he hadnt driven much, his overall score was still low, it hadnt 
improved enough overall to generate a decrease in the premium. IG4 also explained that the 
last review had been done only two weeks after Mr B had been told he had thirty days to 
improve his score. Mr B felt hed been misled. IG4 said there was nothing it could do, as 
Mr B had a poor driving score and that is what dictated the premium. IG4 said all it could do 
would be to waive the £75 cancellation fee if Mr B wanted to cancel, and that would leave 
him with £309 to pay. So, Mr B decided to cancel his policy.
Once the cancellation had gone through IG4 wrote to Mr B. It said the price for Mr B to pay 
was £502. Mr B challenged this but IG4 said that sum was correct and the £75 had been 
deducted  it had been wrong with its previous estimates for cancelling. So Mr B complained 
to us.
Our investigator felt that, as Mr B had expressed financial concerns, related to the pandemic, 
he should have received more assistance. And she felt it was unfair for the corrected 
cancellation cost to be maintained. So she said only a lower sum could be charged to Mr B. 
She said assistance should be given to Mr B in reaching an affordable repayment plan for 
the lower sum and that any adverse record on Mr Bs credit file should be removed. 
When the investigators recommendations werent agreed to, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I was minded to uphold the complaint as well, but I felt more redress was 
required than our investigator had suggested. So I issued a provisional decision, the findings 
of which were:
I think IG4 seriously failed Mr B in the first call he had with it about the increased premium. 
Ive listened to that call. Having done so Im satisfied that IG4 misled Mr B into thinking that 
even though he would only be driving on a limited basis over the next month, if he improved 
his driving score in that month, his premium would likely decrease, such that his next 
months payment would revert to around its previous level. In short, that was wrong and was 
never likely to happen. And I think IG4s representative knew or ought reasonably to have 
known that  IG4 knows how the driving score works and that the only way to improve a very 
low score, such as Mr B had, is to drive a lot whilst achieving a very high score. I think if this 
had been explained properly to Mr B in April, and especially given Mr Bs difficult financial 
position at that time, along with his limited driving opportunities given the pandemic, hed 
likely have cancelled his policy at that stage instead.
But I also think IG4 failed Mr B by refusing to even consider to look at ways of helping him at 
that difficult time in the difficult position he was in. Mr B asked, a few days after that first call, 
if his insurance policy could be suspended, but IG4 didnt even pause or ask any questions 
before saying that wasnt possible. At no stage either did IG4 offer to talk to the finance 
provider which had facilitated the payment arrangement for the policy premium, or the 
insurer to see if theyd be able to assist in any way. Not even when Mr B specifically asked 
to be able to appeal directly to the insurer. Mr B asked about suspension just before the 
industry regulator (the financial conduct authority) issued guidance on how it expected 
financial businesses to act in respect of customers facing financial difficulties due to the 
pandemic. But I dont think it should necessarily have taken the regulator issuing official 
guidance for IG4 to have spotted that Mr B was in difficulty and needed some help. That, 
particularly, the significant premium increase was placing extreme pressure on a young 
driver whose limited income had just been reduced even more. I think the bland response to 
the very real concerns Mr B had laid before it, in light of the unprecedented and extremely 
uncertain situation facing the whole country at that time, was unfair and unreasonable. 
I say that particularly as many policyholders in the spring of 2020 were being offered 
payment holidays and reduced premiums because they were using their cars less. The 
latter, largely because, by driving less, the risk the insurers faced by things like accident 
claims, was less. This is largely the argument Mr B made to IG4, but, as I said, IG4 wasnt 
even willing to approach the insurer to discuss with it whether the reduced risk was 
something it was prepared to take into account, thereby reconsidering the premium. And 
I can understand the frustration expressed by Mr B, and his mother, when they were told 
there was nothing to do but cancel.
I think its fair to say that, after everything that happened, Mr B wouldnt want the cancelled 
policy to be reinstated. But I dont think its fair hes left with the £502 cost for cancellation that he was presented with in June 2020. The cost for Mr B to have cancelled in April 2020 
was stated by IG4 as being £196, inclusive of a £75 cancellation fee. As I mentioned above, 
regulatory guidance was issued after the date of that call. The regulator suggested that 
insurers should look to waive cancellation fees where a policyholder notifies them of financial 
difficulties due to the pandemic. But this service would always encourage financial 
businesses to treat customers fairly, and whilst the guidance was issued to deal specifically 
with the pandemic  treating customers fairly is at its core. Mr B was in financial difficulty, 
and, as I said above, I dont think IG4 did treat him fairly. So I think that all IG4 can 
reasonably charge Mr B for cancelling his policy is £121 (£196 less the £75 cancellation fee). 
I also think Mr B was put through a month of worry, financial stress and inconvenience due 
to IG4s failures in April. The correct advice from IG4 at the outset would have caused him to 
cancel his policy in April. And/or the correct response from IG4 to Mr Bs financial concerns 
would have meant he wouldnt have had the financial worry caused by the increased 
premium. So, I think its fair and reasonable to say IG4 should pay Mr B £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience its failures caused him.
If Mr B wants IG4 to pay him the compensation net of the £121 cancellation cost, I think that 
would be a reasonable way of drawing the outstanding payment issue to a conclusion. IG4 
can then make any settlement necessary with the finance provider which had facilitated the 
payment arrangement for Mr Bs cover. It should also write a letter for Mr B to provide to the 
relevant credit reference agencies to explain that the missed payment and any charges 
which were outstanding following the cancelation in 2020, stemmed from an error on its part.  
Because I think if things had been handled properly in April, Mr B would have cancelled and 
paid off his remaining premium charges resulting from the cancellation straight away. So his 
credit record shouldnt have been negatively affected by IG4s failures which resulted in him 
missing a payment and leaving £500 outstanding for a prolonged period.
Mr B indicated he agreed with my decision. IG4 said it disagreed with it. IG4 made no 
comment about what Id said in respect of it misleading Mr B during his first call with it in 
April. But, in respect of what Id said about assisting its policyholder in financial difficulty due 
to the pandemic, IG4 said my decision amounted to random ideas.pulled from nowhere 
with the pretence of it being a solution to the issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im disappointed to see IG4s response to my very clear explanation of both what the 
regulator expected financial business to do in 2020 in response to the pandemic, and why 
I felt it acting in that way (to explore ways of assisting Mr B), even without regulatory 
guidance, amounted to treating its customer fairly. Treating customers fairly should always 
be at the heart of everything a financial busines does. And if IG4 thinks that my reference to 
the content of guidance, issued by the industry regulator, amounts to me pulling random 
ideas from nowhere, then that is more than disappointing. 
Id add a note in respect of the more detailed content of IG4s reply. IG4 said it couldnt 
approach the finance provider for a payment holiday because that would have put Mr B in 
more financial difficulty as he couldnt pay the increased premium. IG4 has missed the point. 
Mr B was in financial difficulty because of being furloughed due to the pandemic. So an 
unexpected and temporary situation which would likely resolve with the easing of pandemic 
restrictions. But also he couldnt drive much due to the pandemic, so he couldnt do much to 
increase his score, or it would take longer to increase his score. In light of that, a payment 
holiday might really have assisted Mr B. IG4 also said its insurers dont have the facility to freeze cover. Maybe they dont usually  but many companies were finding unusual and 
non-standard ways of helping their customers during the pandemic. Including insurers 
suspending cover and/or amending premiums. Either of which would likely have assisted 
Mr B in the circumstances here. 
My real point, when discussing provisionally points like payments holidays and suspensions 
in cover, was to highlight that there might have been options out there which could have 
assisted Mr B and IG4 should, I think, in the circumstances here, have explored them. But 
I also explained that it was during that very first call in April 2020 that IG4s initial failure 
occurred when it misled Mr B about his chance to improve his score. That misleading advice 
persuaded Mr B not to cancel the cover at that stage. That failure not only caused him a 
loss, because it meant he owed more once he did cancel, but also distress. Distress 
because he spent time after that call trying to do what for him in the circumstances was 
impossible, improve his driving score, and worrying about the premium. 
My provisional decision, that IG4 failed Mr B and must do a number of things to put matters 
right has not changed. My provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final 
decision.  
Putting things right
I require I Go 4 Ltd to:
Amend the outstanding charge for cancellation to show that Mr B owes no more than 
£121.00.
Pay Mr B £250 compensation  but if Mr B wants to clear the debt by having it pay him 
just £129 of that compensation amount, it should do so and mark its record to show 
nothing is outstanding. Making sure the same is true with the finance provider which 
arranged the payment for the cover. 
Write a letter which Mr B can present to the relevant credit reference agencies which 
shows that the missed payment and any charges which were outstanding following the 
cancelation in 2020, stemmed from an error on its part. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require I Go 4 Ltd to provide the redress set out above at putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman