DRN-2224883
The complaint
Mr B complains that Skrill Limited wont refund a payment made from his account which he 
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
 
What happened
Mr B is a Skrill account holder. During lunchtime at work on 6 September 2019, Mr B says 
he received an email from Skrill confirming a recent transaction for €3,814. As this wasnt a 
transaction Mr B recognised, he called a colleague over who thought his computer was 
being hacked; there were about 10 tabs open including for other payment service providers. 
Mr B reported the incident to Skrill who suspended the account whilst it investigated and 
required documentation from Mr B to reinstate it. It found the account had been logged into 
using the correct login credentials and accessed from an IP address regularly used for the 
account; it therefore didnt refund the payment. Mr B complained but Skrill stood by its 
decision. It said Mr B either authorised the payment or shared his security details with 
someone else that enabled them to carry out the transaction  so, in accordance with the 
terms of the account, he was liable for the transaction. 
During our investigations Mr B has maintained that he hadnt shared his security credentials; 
and hadnt downloaded any software allowing remote access to his computer. And he 
denied knowing the recipient of the funds  Skrills investigation led it to conclude the 
payment had been made to Mr Bs cousin for flights (the recipient was another Skrill account 
holder). 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the payment had been 
authorised using the correct security credentials and, as Mr B was adamant he hadnt 
shared those or downloaded any software allowing remote access to his computer, 
concluded the transaction must have been authorised by him.
Mr B disagrees with the outcome reached. In summary, he says:
He didnt authorise the transaction, the first he knew of it was the email;
He doesnt know the person who received the funds and disputes they went to his 
cousin or was payment for flights; 
Cybercriminals dont need a user to knowingly download remote access software  
remote access could have been installed without his knowledge; and 
His money has been stolen and this has been ignored during the investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times. 
The event took place in September 2019, so of particular relevance to my decision are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  not the 2009 Regulations which the 
investigator referred to  which apply to transfers like the ones made from Mr Bs account. 
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the PSRs alongside the contractual terms and 
conditions of the Skrill account. 
Taking those into account there are two key questions relevant to my consideration:
1. Were the transactions authorised by Mr B; and
2. If they werent, did Mr B fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under the PSRs, to comply with the terms and conditions of the 
account, or to keep the personalised security details safe?
If I find Mr B made, or otherwise authorised the transaction, I dont need to consider point 2 
above. 
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr B?
Regulation 67 of the PSRs says that the payer must give consent and it must be given in the 
form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment 
service provider. The EUs Payment Services Directive, which the PSRs implement in UK 
law, says that in the absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered 
unauthorised. 
Given the transaction was made from Mr Bs Skrill account, Ive considered the relevant 
provisions of the account terms and conditions to determine what the agreed form and 
procedure is for such payments to be made. The terms say:
9.1 To send a payment you are required to authorise the payment with your login 
details and password. We may also ask you additional security questions relating to 
you or your Skrill Account. If your Skrill Account is protected by additional security 
measures such as password tokens, you need to follow the instructions provided to 
you with such additional security measures.   
9.2 Every recipient of a payment you wish to send through us must have valid means 
that we can use for their identification. For most of our services that means of 
identification will be a valid e-mail address but other means of identification may be 
required to our other services. 
9.4 If the e-mail address of the intended recipient is registered with us, the funds will 
be instantly credited to the Skrill account associated with that e-mail address. Once 
funds are credited to the recipients Skrill Account, the transaction becomes 
irreversible. 
Mr B says the transaction was made at 1.34pm (CET). The records provided by Skrill show 
the account was successfully logged into a few minutes prior to that and again at the time of 
the transaction. There were no incorrect login attempts or account security information 
changes. The terms and conditions state that the login details and password are needed in 
order to make transactions. 
Mr B says his computer was hacked and insists he didnt make the transactions. For a 
computer to be hacked, a hacker would need to download some form of software to allow 
them remote access to it. Often, we see that payment-service users are tricked into 
downloading such software. Mr B says he hasnt downloaded any software, but maintains it wasnt necessary for him to do this for software to be downloaded. I do accept Mr Bs point 
in principle, as I believe it is possible for a hacker to download software without the users 
knowledge. But the key point here is that Mr B hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that 
his work computer was actually hacked. 
Mr B has also explained he hasnt received any suspicious emails asking for his password or 
personal information; hasnt experienced any unauthorised access to his email address and 
no-one else is aware of his passwords. He says his Skrill account information is kept in a 
digital locker. This, therefore, doesnt explain how, if Mr Bs computer was hacked, the 
hacker knew Mr Bs security credentials, i.e. the email address and password information 
needed to login into his Skrill account and make a payment. These details would be needed 
by a hacker to enable the transactions to be made. 
In the absence of any plausible explanation for how an alleged hacker came by the 
information needed to login into his Skrill account and make the payment, it seems beyond 
reasonable doubt to me that it was carried out by Mr B or someone he authorised to do so 
on his behalf.  
In reaching this conclusion, Ive borne in mind that Mr B says there were a number of open 
tabs on his computer, including for other payment service providers, but that no other 
transactions took place. From our extensive experience of fraud and scams, I consider this 
quite odd: not only would I expect a hacker to change security credentials (which didnt 
happen), I would also expect them to try and steal as much as possible. Yet only one 
transaction was made. Mr B hasnt sought to argue, nor have I seen any evidence to 
suggest, that transactions were attempted with other providers but that the hacker was 
interrupted or otherwise prevented from doing so. 
Overall, having considered this matter carefully, Im satisfied the transaction was made using 
Mr Bs security credentials in the form and procedure required by the account terms and 
conditions. I have found above the transaction was most likely completed by or on behalf of 
Mr B. I therefore conclude that he consented to it. As such, I find no basis on which it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Skrill to refund the transaction in question and so I make no 
award against it. I am satisfied Skrill reviewed this matter in line with the relevant law and 
terms and conditions of the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 December 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman