DRN-4334346
The complaint
Mr K complains about QIC Europe Ltd.s (QIC) handling of a claim settlement on his home 
insurance policy for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised the key 
points:
The escape of water happened at the property in 2021 and QIC provided a cash 
settlement for Mr K to carry out repairs.
Mr K says at the time the settlement was provided, he made the surveyor aware that 
the damage had spread however, QIC didnt investigate the further damage.
Mr K contacted QIC again in November 2022 to say that the water leak had damaged 
their lounge and kitchen and QIC sent out their surveyor at this point to do a further 
review.
The surveyor said that Mr Ks contractors hadnt carried out sufficient works to 
ensure the areas were treated.
QIC applied an exclusion of the policy which says it wont cover poor workmanship, 
therefore it didnt accept any further works were covered.
Mr K says he wasnt asked about what works his contractor had carried out and he 
didnt consider that QICs surveyor had carried out a review of all the affected areas.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it, saying she wasnt 
persuaded with the review that had taken place of the damage, and she didnt 
consider QIC had proven the exclusion it relied on.
The investigator recommended that QIC appoint an independent surveyor to review 
all areas of the damage and provide an opinion on the cause.
Mr K accepted this outcome, as did QIC. However, there has been delays in QIC 
appointing a surveyor and this is causing further unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience to Mr K.
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that its not clear how QIC have shown that the damage Mr K is 
claiming for isnt a result of the initial leak, or its a result of poor workmanship.
As QIC have declined the damage, relying on a policy exclusion relating to poor 
workmanship, the onus is on it to evidence this. Having reviewed the available photos and 
reports, Im not satisfied that QIC have done this.
QIC have said that Mr Ks contractors didnt treat the areas correctly and that if a fungal 
treatment had been carried out, then the damage wouldnt have occurred. However, Mr Ks 
contractor quote included works for the fungal treatment, and I havent seen that QIC have 
shown evidence that this wasnt carried out.
I think its unclear from QICs submission that it identified all the affected/damaged areas, or 
has shown how, and why, the damage at the property isnt linked to the initial escape of 
water.
Therefore, I consider an independent survey is required to ensure that all affected areas are 
considered, and an independent professional opinion is provided on when, and how, the 
damage has occurred. 
Putting things right
I instruct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Instruct an independent professional survey and for QIC to ensure the surveyor has 
contacted Mr K within four weeks of us telling QIC Mr K has accepted this final 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 10 
October 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman