DRN-2930846
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
personal loan in 2011. Mrs W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs W took out the loan and PPI during a phone conversation. The policy was paid for 
monthly.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs W disagreed, 
the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. Where the evidence is incomplete, (as 
some of it is here), I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs W says that Santander made no mention of PPI during the call when the PPI was 
sold. I have no reason to doubt that this is what Mrs W now remembers happened. But, 
because it was over ten years ago, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think that I 
can reasonably rely solely on her recollection.
Santander hasnt been able to send us a call recording from the time of the sale. But it 
has sent us a copy of the script that its representative was supposed to follow. Im 
satisfied that, if this script had been followed, Santander would have made Mrs W aware 
that she was being offered PPI, it was separate from the loan and it was optional, and 
that she would have been given the opportunity to decline it. Apart from what Mrs W has 
said, I havent seen anything else to suggest that the script wasnt followed.
Further, Santander has sent us a copy of the loan agreement signed by Mrs W. Below 
the box where she signed for the loan itself, there is a section dealing with PPI. This 
says: We have arranged optional and separate [PPI] for you. And at the bottom of this 
section I can see that Mrs W has signed and ticked to confirm that she was eligible for 
and wanted to purchase the PPI.
So on balance I find that Santander did discuss PPI with her, made it clear that she didnt 
have to take it out and that she chose to take. Because of the time that has passed, I can 
understand why Mrs W can no longer remember this;
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. It left it up to her to consider whether she needed the cover in the light of her 
circumstances at the time - including what alternative sources of help may have been 
available to enable her to make her monthly loan repayments had she been unable to 
work. But Santander did have to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
I can see that the section of the loan agreement, to which Ive referred earlier, sets out 
the initial monthly premium for the PPI, as well as the total that she would have to pay for 
it over the term of the loan, if the cost wasnt subsequently varied. But its possible the 
other information Santander gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she was eligible 
for the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition. So it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
From the above, I conclude that Santander didnt mis-sell the policy. This means that 
Santander doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the policy to Mrs W.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mrs 
W, that was unfair;
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including that, the fact that she was eligible 
for the policy and wouldnt have been caught by any of its main limitations, is irrelevant to 
her complaint. But its this services usual approach to consider the whole sales process 
when dealing with a complaint of mis-selling. So I find that it is appropriate for both the 
adjudicator and me to look at those aspects of the policy and comment on them. So this 
doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so 
Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI Mrs W. But Santander 
UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman