DRN-3405228
The complaint
Miss G complains about the problems she had when applying for a mortgage on a new build 
property with Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
Miss G was a first-time buyer with no chain and a healthy deposit. Miss G says that 
Nationwide accepted her mortgage application but didn't check for its exposure on the 
property. About seven weeks into the application after problems about organising the 
valuation, Nationwide said that it wouldnt lend because of over-exposure. Ms G says the 
Society organised the wrong survey when it knew it was a new build property and let her 
down on the valuation by arranging it twice and misinformed her about it having even taken 
place and there was no one looking after the application whilst Miss Gs mortgage adviser 
was off sick. The flat was nearly put back on the market as a result of Nationwide taking so 
long but her new lender gave Miss G a mortgage within one week with no problems 
whatsoever. The first thing they did was check for exposure. 
Nationwide said that an application was submitted on 19 May 2021 and a Homebuyers 
Report was paid for and instructed on 10 June but as a new build this couldnt be carried out, 
so a standard valuation was instructed for 21 June. But this had actually been cancelled by 
Nationwide on 4 June, but Miss G wasnt made aware of this. The reason for the 
cancellation was that it was in a development which fell outside Nationwides appetite to 
lend. Nationwide accepted it made an error and offered Miss G £150 compensation. 
On review Nationwide said that it also made an error in referring to the cancellation of the 
valuation on the 4 June. It was the Homebuyers Report valuation that was cancelled on 4 
June. It says that it only became aware of the issue with the development on 21 June when 
the second valuation was cancelled. In recognition of its failures in respect of the 
Homebuyers Report and the lack of a mortgage consultant to assist Miss G through the 
process it offered compensation of £250. Our investigator considered that the compensation 
offered was fair and reasonable and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. 
Miss G disagreed saying in summary that Nationwide should have known about their over 
exposure from the very start of her application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue here is when should Nationwide have been aware that it wouldnt be able to 
lend on the apartment that Miss G wanted to buy. The reason for the refusal is that the 
property that Miss G wanted to buy was situated in a development that fell outside 
Nationwides lending appetite. For Nationwide this development was a closed site and it 
wouldnt lend on properties therein. This issue - when should Nationwide have been aware 
the property was in a closed site -  is one that Miss G is concerned about and so its a 
question Ive probed on a number of occasions with Nationwide and I set out in the following 
my understanding of what occurred. 
As I understand it, sometime before this application was made, Nationwide had decided that 
it wouldnt be lending on this development. Lenders will from time to time will make a risk 
appraisal of what new sites they may or may not lend on. But closing sites to new lending 
operates by way of post codes so that if the developer supplies the post code and the site is 
for some reason closed on the lenders books, the lender when it inputs the post code will 
recognise this and the application wont go further.  
But Nationwide says that in such a development not all post codes would have issued when 
it decided not to lend on it, so when Miss G submitted her application, and indeed when 
Nationwide received a change of address in the middle of June with a different post code, 
Nationwide didnt recognise it as belonging to a site that it wasnt prepared to lend on. So, 
the internal valuer sent an instruction out to the external valuers at the beginning of June 
without recognising it was a closed site. It was when the external valuer saw the instruction 
in the diary that  a query was raised with the internal valuer as to whether this was an 
acceptable site - Im assuming that the external valuer recognised this from the address 
rather than the post code - and the internal valuer on checking the site cancelled down the 
valuation on 21 June. That as I understand it why the issue was not flagged by Nationwide at 
an early stage.
I hope that Miss G finds that explanation helpful. I note that she says in her email of 23 April 
that this isnt an issue of delay, but that Nationwide went so far in the process before 
identifying the problem and Ive tried to establish why that was. It may be that there are 
different and better ways in which Nationwide could identify these sites as closed at an 
earlier stage. But I recognise that there may be a genuine difficulty for Nationwide if new 
post codes are created and Nationwide arent informed by the developer to which sites these 
belong, so that to fill the gaps it may have to await input from its external valuer as appears 
to have happened here. In any case its not my role to advise Nationwide on its processes. 
The question I have to consider is was there unreasonable delay by Nationwide in 
considering Miss Gs application. The application commenced on the 19 May 2021 and Miss 
G had an answer that the application was turned down on 22 June 2021. There seems to 
have been a slight delay because the wrong type of valuation was asked for, but I do see 
that Nationwide tried to compensate for that by urging a quicker valuation from the external 
valuer. The real gap occurred as Nationwide was unaware until told by an external valuer 
that this site was on its closed list but Nationwide seems to have followed its procedure, 
which we would expect it to do, and its not clear to me how by doing so, it could have got 
that information sooner. So, I cant fairly find it at fault for not alerting Miss G to the problem 
before 22 June.
Miss G then got a refusal and applied for a mortgage with another lender and, happily, got 
an acceptance within one week. I understand that with that as a comparison point, Miss G 
must consider Nationwides processes as prolonged. From my own experience of mortgage 
applications, which can and do take six to eight weeks and longer, I dont consider that 
Nationwides application process was unreasonably prolonged, and I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint on that basis. 
I do see that there were issues with an incorrect valuation being commissioned and 
cancelled and the problems with communication partly caused by Miss Gs point of contact 
going on holiday during the process. But in my view the offer of £250 made by Nationwide 
fairly compensates Miss G for the distress caused by those issues.  As my view is that the 
time taken by Nationwide to process the application wasnt unreasonable, I will not require 
Nationwide to pay anything further such as the cost of renting a flat for a longer period than 
she hoped to. I note that Miss G commissioned a further report and incurred legal fees but those were relevant to the purchase of the property which Miss G eventually completed on 
and I dont require Nationwide to reimburse those. I will leave Miss G to contact Nationwide if 
she would now like to accept its offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman