DRN-2370946
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy. Its
been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the sale. For
simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs C took out the policy at the same time as taking out a store card in 1995. The policy 
covered risks in addition to accident, sickness and unemployment, but I havent considered 
these other benefits as part of my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs C
Disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs C and AXA disagree as to whether Mrs C took out the PPI over the phone or in a 
meeting. But in any event this doesnt change my decision. Because of the time that has 
passed AXA no longer has a record of what was said to Mrs C during the sale. So Ive had to 
make my decision on the information that I do have and what we know generally about the 
way AXA sold these types of policies.
Mrs C says that AXA told her that she could only have the store card if it had PPI attached. I 
have no reason to doubt that that is what Mrs C now recalls happened. However,
because of the time gap, I dont think that I can fairly rely solely on her recollection. And, 
without further details of what happened at the time of the sale to make Mrs C think she had 
to have it, I think that its likely that she knew the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen Mrs Cs signed application form for the store card. 
This has a section in it dealing with PPI. After a brief explanation of what the insurance 
covers, there is a request for her to indicate whether she requires it or not by ticking one of 
two equally prominent boxes. I can see that the box requesting the insurance has been 
ticked. And the other left blank. Its possible that the form was filled in this way by AXAs 
representative and not by Mrs C herself. As I can see that one of four boxes to choose the 
type of card protection required has also been ticked, Im satisfied that its more than likely 
that the form would have been filled in this way after a discussion with Mrs C to find out her 
wishes. And Mrs C would have had the opportunity to check the application form before she 
signed it. 
Because the sale was so long ago, we dont have a copy of the actual policy terms that 
applied to Mrs Cs card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same insurers that we do 
have, that were in use for other store cards nearest to the time of the sale. 
AXA says it didnt advise Mrs C to take the policy, so it would have left it up to her to make 
the decision. But Mrs C says it did advise her. If this was the case, AXA had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for her needs. I dont know what, if 
any, steps AXA took. But in any event I find it was suitable. Ive reached this conclusion on 
the basis Ive discussed above, and looking at what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time, because:
Mrs C was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Mrs C wasnt likely to have been affected by any of the policys main limitations and 
restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mrs C may have been entitled to sick pay from her employer. But she has told us that 
she didnt have any savings or other insurance to help her make her monthly store card 
repayments. However, following a successful claim, the PPI would have likely paid 15% 
of her store credit account balance a month. These payments would have been likely to 
have been paid until she was able to return to work, in the case of her being unable to 
work because of accident or sickness. And for up to 12 months had she become 
involuntarily unemployed. And would have been in addition to anything she did in fact get 
from her employment - leaving such work benefits available to meet her other expenses 
while she was unable to work. So I think that the insurance could have been of use to 
Mrs C;
The premiums were likely to have been no more than one pound a month for each £100
outstanding on her account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs C couldnt 
afford this. In any event, had she later felt that she no longer wanted the PPI or that it 
was unaffordable for her, Mrs C could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, 
as it was paid for monthly.
Its possible that AXA didnt tell Mrs C everything she needed to know about the PPI so that
she could make an informed decision whether she wanted it or not. But, from what Ive
concluded above, I dont think that Mrs C would have made a different decision and decided
not to take the PPI had she been given clearer information.
So I find that Mrs C hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done wrong
during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman