DRN-2724631
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 alongside a store card account. Mrs B 
was sold the policy by phone.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My view of the case was different to that of the adjudicator, so I wrote a provisional decision 
and asked everyone for comments and any further evidence. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because it looked 
likely AXA hadnt properly explained the costs and benefits of the PPI, and the 
adjudicator thought it likely Mrs B wouldnt have taken the PPI if shed understood the 
policy better  this was because of the work sickness cover she was entitled to, and 
her savings.
But Ive currently reached a different view. Mrs B has provided evidence from her 
employer which suggests that the entitlement was not a contractual one, but instead 
a discretionary one which the employer would regularly review. So I dont think she 
could have been sure she would receive that sickness cover if she was off work for a 
long time.
It looks likely that the PPI cover potentially would have lasted longer than her 
employer sick pay and savings would cover her  and would, in any case, have left 
her in a more secure financial position if she was unfortunate enough to be off sick 
for a long period or to have been made redundant. So I dont think better information 
about costs and benefits would have made a difference to whether she took the PPI.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case:
The credit agreement form, which Mrs B signed, does set out the PPI as a 
choice. Theres no recording of the original phone call, which isnt surprising 
so many years later. But I dont have good evidence that, during the call, the 
PPI wasnt presented as optional.
Ive seen nothing to show that AXA recommended the PPI as being 
particularly suitable for Mrs Bs individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs B to 
decide whether it was suitable.
It doesnt look like shed have been significantly affected by any of 
exclusions in the policy, to an extent that it would have put her off taking 
the PPI.
Neither AXA nor Mrs B sent me in comments or information in response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, set out above, I dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman