DRN-2644049
The complaint
Mr O complains that he felt pressured into entering a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS). 
 
What happened
 In September 2016 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with AFS. Mr O said he was pressured into entering this agreement by the sales 
staff. He said he told the advisor he might struggle with the repayments as his job wasnt 
steady and he just wanted a simple affordable, reliable used car with warranty for peace of 
mind. Mr O said he also told the advisor of his uncertain immigration status and said he was 
advised he could cancel if necessary. He said the staff took advantage of his naivety to force 
a sale onto him. 
Mr O said he contacted the sales office to say he was struggling with the repayments and 
was advised to contact AFS because the sales office only sold the car, but the finance was 
ASF. He said he contacted AFS who in turn advised him to speak with the manager of the 
franchise that sold the car to him. 
Mr O has said the car was not affordable, the financial implications were not clearly 
explained to him, the staff did not ask him any questions about his existing finance and did 
not establish if the deal was affordable.  He said they did not explain the charges or lending 
fees associated with the car finance deal at the time of the sale. 
In its final response AFS said as the issue appeared not to relate to an act or omission 
involving AFS it had shared this with the dealer to investigate in accordance with the dealers 
own complaint handling procedures. Mr O brought his complaint to this service. 
AFS told this service that it had not been given the opportunity to look at the affordability 
element of the complaint. A separate complaint was set up and investigated and Mr O was 
provided with a second final response letter. 
Our investigator concluded AFS had provided enough information for Mr O to make an 
informed choice. She also said there wasnt enough evidence to suggest AFS had pressured 
Mr O into entering the agreement. Mr O did not agree and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. He said it was clear to him that the car was mis-sold to him, taking advantage 
of his vulnerability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr O but having done so I wont be asking 
ASF to do anything further. Id like to thank Mr O for his detailed response to the 
investigators view. If I dont comment on a point this is because I dont need to comment on 
it in order to come to what I think is the right decision for this particular complaint. 
In this decision I am only responding to Mr Os complaint regarding the pressure he said he 
was under for him to take the agreement. I am not dealing with the affordability of the 
agreement, that is being dealt with by a separate complaint. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 deals with antecedent negotiations  by this I 
mean what was said or done before the credit agreement was entered by the customer. It 
explains that finance providers are liable for what is said by a supplier before the agreement 
is signed  where theres a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. ASF noted in its final 
response that the issue appeared not to relate to an act or omission involving AFS. I must 
take account of relevant law when deciding and in this case Section 56 does apply. 
Mr O said at the time of the application he was appealing a home office immigration 
decision. He said he wanted to buy a used car which could possibly transport his belongings 
home and then sell afterwards. He said he was out of work and it was a difficult situation 
financially and he explained this to the advisor at the sales office. Mr O said he wasnt 
provided with information relating to the monthly repayment. He said he would not have paid 
any deposit had he been told the payments were £390 per month. He said he made it clear 
he wanted a used car but that the advisor was all over him. Mr O explained the advisor kept 
showing him different new cars and explaining the discount he could get. Mr O recalled the 
advisor saying, big man this car is too small for you'' and using many sales tricks. He said 
he was at the dealer for over 6 hours on the day and the advisor told him that he was better 
with a new car than a used car.
No contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed when Mr O visited the dealership has 
been provided by either party; no notes or witness statements. I wasnt present when Mr O 
visited so I cant be certain of what was said. But where evidence is not clear or disputed, in 
order to be fair and reasonable, I must base my decision on what I think is likely to have 
happened. 
Its not unusual for dealers to offer incentives or to explain to potential purchasers the 
various finance options available, in this case for both new or used cars. Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr O when he said he felt pressured. And I can see from his testimony that he was 
under some stress regarding his immigration status at the time. But in trying to sell Mr O a 
new car over an old doesnt necessarily mean the dealer did anything wrong. 
From the system notes I can see the deal for the car was proposed on 17 September 2016 
and was signed on 26 September 2016. This date is confirmed by Mr Os signature on the 
finance agreement. AFS has said this gave Mr O nine full days to review the agreement, the 
payments schedule and have a change of heart should he not be happy to proceed with the 
deal. It said this is not indicative of a pressured sale in any way. While I wouldnt 
necessarily characterise it in the same way, Im persuaded that even if pressure sales tactics 
had been used during the first meeting, and Ive seen no evidence they were, Mr O was free 
to go elsewhere during that nine days. 
Mr O said the information given to him at the time of the sale was not enough for him to 
make an informed decision. He said he was not given any documents to take home to read 
nor was he allowed to make an independent decision. Mr O seems very clear on what kind 
of vehicle he needed and for what purpose and I accept its possible he wasnt given any 
information about the deal to take away and consider. But Im satisfied he had time to go 
back and ask for more information, reconsider, and to possibly buy an alternative new or 
used vehicle with a different dealer, before he signed the agreement with AFS. Mr O went on to say the advisor failed to tell him about his cancellation or opt out options. 
And on the day he signed the documents he felt rushed. He said the car was forced on him. 
Again, Im not disputing Mr Os version of events. Ive seen a copy of the signed credit 
agreement. On page one it says you must make one repayment of £390 on a date set by 
usfollowed by 47 monthly repayments of £390. Further down the page the right to end the 
agreement is explained with the conditions. Mr O signed at the bottom of this page. On page 
three the right of withdrawal of the agreement  known as the cooling off period  is 
explained. It says, you have the right to withdraw from this agreement without having to give 
any reason.the withdrawal period is 14 days beginning the day after the day on which this 
agreement is made. So, Mr O also had this period during which he could have changed his 
mind and returned the car subject to interest accrued. I can see that Mr O signed a pre-
contractual explanations checklist to confirm he had received an explanation of the 
agreement, the right to withdraw and the opportunity to ask questions about it. 
On balance, theres no evidence on which I can safely conclude the dealer acted unfairly. Mr 
O signed several documents agreeing to the finance nine days after the deal was discussed 
so I think he had time to reconsider his options
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman