DRN-3850579
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as B has complained that Revolut Ltd wouldnt reimburse 
the money they lost due to an authorised push payment scam.  In summary, B say that 
Revolut failed to implement appropriate monitoring procedures to identify suspicious activity 
in its customers account and failed to take adequate steps to retain and return their funds. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, B was in correspondence with their law firm in the US about the 
payment of legal fees to them in relation to an at-the-market offering and other legal matters. 
This included two invoices which B was due to pay to the law firm, totalling about $210,000. 
Unfortunately, unknown to both parties, their email chain was intercepted by a scammer who 
provided B with an alternative account detail for the payment to be made. This account was 
with Revolut. B made the payment in early October 2021, and the scam came to light two 
weeks later when the law firm chased B for payment. B alerted their bank who in turn 
contacted Revolut but unfortunately no funds remained in the recipients account. 
B complained to Revolut as above. Revolut did not uphold the complaint. In summary it said 
that it had acted in accordance with all of its legal and regulatory obligations as a receiving 
bank.  One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary: 
Looking through the recipients account, there were instances of suspicious activities on the 
account, but Revolut failed to identify them and take appropriate actions. While Revolut 
couldnt have reasonably known when the account was opened that it would be used 
fraudulently, the subsequent activity warranted further scrutiny on a number of occasions 
including in respect of the payment from B. So, it is fair that Revolut takes some 
responsibility for the loss incurred by B. However, there was some contributory negligence 
on the part of B. So, the fair outcome here is that the loss is shared equally by both parties. 
Revolut did not agree with the investigators opinion and the case was referred to me for a 
decision. I wrote to Revolut setting out my initial thoughts - expanding on the reasoning 
given by the investigator - citing some specific information about the recipients account 
(which I am unable to share with B as it relates to third parties). I asked Revolut whether it 
would be willing to informally settle the dispute, but it did not agree. It set out its reasons and 
asked for a final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. 
Specifically, Im mindful that it:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence;
has a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship;
I am also mindful of what the Payment Systems Regulator has said about the role of 
receiving Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in relation to authorised push payment fraud.  
For example, in the Which? authorised push payments super-complaint PSR response 
December 2016, they have said: 
APP scams can be prevented by receiving PSPs monitoring inbound payments and 
intervening where they identify suspect transactions
We consider that receiving PSPs may potentially be able to do more in terms of 
proactively monitoring inbound payment activity to help prevent APP scams. ..
In terms of regulatory obligations, those PSPs that come under the FCAs Handbook, 
such as banks and building societies, are obliged to have adequate policies and 
procedures to counter the risk that they might be used for financial crime, including 
fraud.
Since PSPs face ongoing duties to prevent financial crime (SYSC 6.3.1 and SYSC 
6.3.3), the need to conduct customer due diligence checks does not end once the 
account is open. An account that passed all the appropriate checks when it was opened 
may be used for fraudulent purposes at a later date. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for Revolut as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. But where a complainant complains 
to us that Revolut didnt do enough to prevent their loss, I will look into the circumstances of 
the case and decide based on what I have seen, whether, in that case, Revolut could have 
fairly and reasonably done more.
Revolut has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision.  
Having reviewed the submissions, I am of the view that Revolut could have done more here 
to help prevent the loss to B.  The recipients account was opened about two months prior to Bs payment. The account 
opening documentation show that the customer was a limited company, and it was 
incorporated a few days before the account was opened. The companys business was 
given as repairer of luxury watches.
In the first couple of weeks since the account was opened there was hardly any activity. 
Then the account started receiving series of large payments. 
As I understand it, each time when these payments came in Revolut carried out an 
Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) check. It queried the incoming payment with their customer 
who provided some evidence to support it. 
I think Revolut did well to question their customer. It was newly opened account by a young 
owner purportedly operating in luxury goods. And soon after the account was opened, it 
started receiving very high value payments from abroad. All of this taken together could be 
an indicator of suspicious activity. 
However, I consider that on those occasions Revolut missed opportunities to detect the 
scam. I have explained this in detail to Revolut in my letter. As I said I am limited as to how 
much information I can share here because it relates to a third-party account. But by way of 
an example, on two occasions when Revolut questioned the incoming payments, its 
customer told Revolut that they were repayments of some large buy now pay later loans, 
which they provided to the payer. 
The customer gave Revolut copies of loan agreements as evidence. I have considered this 
evidence. Firstly, there is no reference at all to any goods or services being sold in those 
agreements. This was somewhat unusual as a proper loan agreement would clearly set out 
the reason for the loan being provided. Secondly, the loan agreements were dated (and so 
the loans were supposedly provided by Revoluts customer), well before the customer (the 
company) was even formed. The Companies House records show that Revoluts customer 
was incorporated only in August 2021, but the loan agreements were dated 2018 and 2020. 
There is no evidence that Revolut questioned this anomaly.  
In addition, on all the occasions when Revolut intervened and questioned its customer, it 
would have (or ought to have) seen that the names of the intended payees were quite 
different to the name on the account. In fact, the payee names were different on different 
occasions. There is no evidence that Revolut questioned this too with its customer. 
In this regard, Revolut told us that it would be reasonable to assume that a genuine business 
entity might have more than one associate. Therefore, the intended beneficiary specified in 
the payment instruction would not be a cause of concern, especially in cases where the 
business owner can provide supporting evidence. Revolut also told us that it could not be 
held liable if its customer provided it with falsified invoice and it accepted them with the belief 
that they were legitimate.
I am not persuaded by this. Firstly, there is no evidence in this customers Company House 
records of any associated company. Secondly the point of querying its customer was to 
ensure that there were no concerns with the receipt, and to look out for any signs that might 
indicate risk of scam or fraud. Revolut should be aware of common scams including email 
invoice interceptions. It is common on such scams for there to be a mismatch between the 
beneficiary information included with a payment instruction and the recipient accountholder. 
So, I dont think Revolut could automatically assume that the intended payees were 
associates of its customer. A quick internet search would have shown that those intended 
payees were based abroad, some of them large companies, engaged in an entirely different 
businesses to watch repair. So, I consider that Revolut ought to have questioned this with its customer and sought evidence of any association with these intended payees. Had it done 
so, I cant see how the customer would have been able to persuade Revolut that all these 
intended payees were its associated companies. Thirdly, as I have illustrated earlier, some 
of the evidence provided by the customer did not stack up on the face of it, so it is 
reasonable to conclude that Revolut could have done more rather than simply accepting 
what its customer said. Revolut should also be alert to the possibility of evidence being 
fabricated.
It was in these circumstances, the payment from B arrived. As I understand it, Revolut once 
again carried out an EDD. Here again Revolut could have seen that the intended payee was 
a limited partnership, and a quick internet search would have shown that this intended payee 
is an international law firm headquartered in New York. I am not persuaded that Revoluts 
customer could have given a reasonable explanation as to why a watch repairer was 
receiving a payment intended for an international law firm had Revolut questioned this.
Revoluts customer produced an invoice which showed that they purportedly sold multiple 
luxury watches to B.  However, the customer was purportedly a watch repairer not a seller of 
high-end watches. I think there is nothing automatically suspicious about a customer whose 
stated business was watch repair in occasionally trading in watches. However, in order to 
sell the watches, it is reasonable to expect that the customer bought them firstly. But there 
was no activity on the account evidencing purchase of the watches by the customer. There 
is no evidence that Revolut questioned this either. 
In addition, I also agree with the investigator that the rapid dispersal of funds soon after they 
were received from B ought also to have raised concerns. 
In summary, I have taken into account what Revolut has said. I consider that it acted 
correctly by questioning its customer about the source of funds. But I do think that it did not 
adequately test the evidence provided by its customer. Generally, when there are concerns 
about a payment (or payments), the recipients provider tends to thoroughly investigate the 
matter. Had Revolut done so, it would have meanwhile received the scam notification (in 
relation to another transaction), and that would have eventually led to it returning Bs funds 
to B.  
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that Revolut missed an opportunity to help 
prevent the loss to B. So, it is fair that it compensates B for their loss.
That said, I agree with the investigator  for the reasons they have explained - that there was 
contributory negligence on the part of B. In particular, I consider that the scammer changing 
the bank details twice and giving incoherent explanation for the change was suspicious and 
B ought to have done more to ensure that the payment was being made to the right party. 
However, this does not negate the fact that Revolut too missed an opportunity to prevent Bs 
loss, as described above.  
In the circumstances I consider it fair that the loss is shared equally between Revolut and B.     
Putting things right
As I understand it, B paid $210,333 to the scammer and none of this could be recovered. 
For the reasons given, this loss should be borne equally by Revolut and B. This means 
Revolut should reimburse $105,167 to B.  From what I understand, the funds were lost from a business current account, which likely 
earned little interest. But the relevant question is the opportunity cost of the lost funds to B. 
In this case, I cannot be certain about the cost to B of being deprived of the money because 
it might have used the funds in a variety of ways. It is however clear to see that this was a 
large sum of money, and the loss has had a big impact on the company. In the 
circumstances, without any compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, I consider 
it fair and reasonable that Revolut pay B simple interest at 8% p.a. on the sum reimbursed.  
Interest should be paid from the date Revolut was advised of the scam to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Revolut Ltd 
should pay B 50% of the loss they incurred together with simple interest at 8% p.a. on that 
amount. Interest should be paid from the date Revolut was advised of the scam to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman