DRN-3402825
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his bicycle insurance policy with Red
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March 2022, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
In February 2020, while riding his bicycle, Mr C was involved in a collision with a moped.
Mr C informed Red Sands of the incident the next day.
In April 2020, the third partys solicitor wrote to Mr C (although he says he never got this
letter as it was addressed incorrectly) and Red Sands to allege that Mr C had been at fault
for the accident and the moped (worth under £500) had been written off. The solicitors said
the claimant was hiring a replacement vehicle under a credit hire facility and was going to
seek recovery of those costs from him.
Red Sands says it wrote to Mr C numerous times to get more information from him about the
accident from April 2020 onwards but he refused to provide the information required in order
for it to defend the claim. Mr C didnt respond to these emails until 11 September 2020 by
which point the hire vehicle claim was over £50,000 and a personal injury claim valued at
£25,000 had also been made. Red Sands said its legal position has been prejudiced by
Mr Cs delay in replying (because it couldnt now get CCTV footage, witness recollections
might be affected, among other things) and so it will not cover the claim. It relies on a
general policy condition to provide full instructions and cooperate and Mr Cs common law
duty to mitigate his losses and says it is legally entitled to avoid cover under the Insurance
Act 2015.
Red Sands says that if Mr C had chosen to comply with the policy in time, all of those
losses would have been contained, curtailed, managed or possibly terminated in their
entirety through commercial resolution.
Mr C is very unhappy with this. He says he didnt get the initial letter from the third party
solicitor, as it wasnt addressed correctly and he didnt think the communications from Red
Sands were to do with a claim made by the third party but were follow ups to the notification
of the incident he gave them. Mr C says Red Sands didnt make him aware how urgent a
reply was and, once they did make this clear, he replied soon after.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He recommended that it be upheld in part.
He said Red Sands had been prejudiced because it couldnt defend the hire car charge
claim due to Mr Cs delay in providing the information it asked for but, as the personal injury
claim had only been made in September 2020, and there was no delay in Mr C responding
to Red Sands about this claim, it should cover the costs of defending this claim.
Red Sands accepted the Investigators assessment. However, Mr C does not accept the
assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy includes cover for public liability, including the legal costs involved in defending
any claim made against him, as follows:
Public liability 
We will pay up to the maximum Benefit Limit as note on the Schedule in respect of:
5.1.1.1 Compensation and the Claimants costs and expenses and/or;
5.1.1.2 The legal cost and expenses of defending a claim made against You under this
Section.
For claims made against You for death, accidental bodily injury, arising from one event 
happening during the period of Insurance and caused by You when riding any Bicycle
The policy also sets out some specific conditions to that section of cover:
You must inform Us immediately of any impending prosecution, inquest or fatal inquiry or
civil proceedings. You must send Us all correspondence and documentation you receive
without replying to it.
And there are also general conditions to the cover, including that:
You must always take reasonable steps to prevent and minimise any loss or damage.
In the event of a claim under this policy, you must contact the Administrator within 30 days of
the happening of a claim event. You must co-operate fully and truthfully with the
Administrator and provide any information they may need.
So the policy does provide cover for the defence of a legal claim, such as is being made
against Mr C. However, Red Sands says that Mr C breached the policy conditions set out
above, which means it is entitled to refuse the claim.
Mr C did report the incident to Red Sands the day after it happened with full details, so there
is no breach of that condition in my opinion.
Mr C didnt tell Red Sands of the impending civil case but he says thats because he didnt
know about it. Mr C says he didnt receive the letter from the third partys solicitors dated      
2 April 2020 notifying him of the claim against him for the cost of the third partys moped. I 
can see this letter [was] not addressed correctly and so I have no reason to doubt what he 
has said about this. Given this, I do not consider that Red Sands has established a breach of 
this condition either.
Red Sands also says Mr C failed to take reasonable steps to prevent and minimise any loss
or damage by not responding to it about the claim. It also says Mr C had a general legal
duty to mitigate his losses, in addition to the policy terms. It says Mr Cs failure to do these
things has prejudiced its position, in that it has affected its ability to successfully defend the
claim against Mr C.
Red Sands wrote to Mr C to get instructions and further information about the claim on 20and 22 April 2020, 5 and 20 May 2020 and 1 June and 9 July 2020. It also says it called
Mr C on 9 March and 29 April 2020.
Mr C says that he thought these communications were all just asking him to get in touch with
a completed form and sketch of the accident and he didnt realise a claim had been made
against him, or the importance of getting in touch until the letter of September 2020.
Red Sands correctly points out that just because it was not significant in Mr Cs mind, [that] 
does not release him from his common law duty to mitigate his losses and from the breach 
of a condition precedent.
Mr C did not respond to these emails or phone calls with the information requested of him
and so I agree that there was a breach of this policy condition. However, I am not persuaded
that this means it was fair or reasonable in all the circumstances of the case to refuse all
cover for this claim. Red Sands has set out the relevant law in some detail in response to
this complaint but, as it is aware, my remit is to consider all the circumstances of the
complaint and reach a determination of what I consider the fair and reasonable outcome
should be, having regard for the law. Red Sands also had obligations to provide Mr C with
clear information and treat him fairly.
Red Sands emails did not set out the claim being made against Mr C and there were no
time limits set for his response. There was mention in a couple of the emails that it may not
be able to meet the claim, if he did not respond but it was not until the letter of September
2020 that it provided Mr C with more information about the claim made against him and the
possibility that it would not meet the claim if he did not respond within a certain time.
The first time limit Red Sands provided was in [an] email dated 3 September 2020, which 
said that if he did not provide the information requested within 10 days then it would 
repudiate cover. Mr C did respond on 11 September 2020 and Red Sands then asked him 
for further Information, including if there was a police report. It then wrote to Mr C on 30 
October 2020 to say it was refusing cover.
Red Sands was aware of the value of the claim against Mr C, the value of the moped and
the potential hire charges, and all the information it relied on to repudiate cover on 30
October 2020. I do not consider it fair to have indicated to Mr C that the claim would still be
covered in September 2020 (and allow the hire charges to continue accruing between then
and 30 October 2020) before repudiating it at the end of October 2020.
In my opinion, Red Sands should also have made the position clearer than it did in its
communications with Mr C and the potential risks of him not responding, given the potential
impact the decision would have on him. I think something so important that might mean
taking away cover for a significant legal claim meant Red Sands needed to provide clear and
fair information to Mr C; after all he would not necessarily know how a claim like this would
work but Red Sands does.
I am also not sure Red Sands has established it was prejudiced by Mr Cs breach of this
policy condition. It has provided a long list of potential areas of prejudice but I am not
satisfied they have been made out.
The main issue with delay in relation to a legal claim, as it has pointed out, is in relation to
the gathering of relevant evidence, such as CCTV footage and witness evidence. However,
it seems to me possible that by April 2020 any relevant CCTV footage would have been
unavailable anyway. I cannot see any evidence this was explored. Mr C also provided the
name of a witness but there is no suggestion that Red Sands contacted him before deciding
to refuse cover.I also note that Red Sands has said that if it had received the information from Mr C earlier
than it did, it would have settled the value of the moped, on a without prejudice basis, even
though Mr C said he was not at fault for the accident. The reason it gives for this is that the
cost of this would be less than our case fee. There is no explanation why it did not
do so anyway, given it was aware of the hire charges accruing and the relatively low value of
the moped. Given that it says it would have settled the claim for the moped anyway, as it
would not have been worth challenging, I am not persuaded it has established its position
has been altered, as the information Mr C provided about the accident doesnt seem to have
been the determining factor in that.
In addition to all of this, I am also mindful that Red Sands agreed to cover defence of the
personal injury claim that the third partys solicitor intimated. However, both heads of claim
(vehicle damage and personal injury) will require the third party to establish that Mr C was at
fault for the accident (or at partly at fault), which will turn on exactly the same evidence, e.g.
the CCTV, witness statement etc. It seems illogical therefore that Red Sands accepts it has
not been prejudiced to the extent it cannot reasonably defend the personal injury claim,
which will rely on the same evidence that Red Sands said would now be compromised
because Mr C hadnt responded earlier.
Having taken everything into account, I therefore consider that it was not fair or reasonable
to refuse this claim and Red Sands should now proceed with it.
Mr C has told the Investigator that he has not heard anything further from the third party or
Red Sands about the legal claim and so it is not clear if this has been abandoned. I would
ask Red Sands to confirm if it has received any further communication from the third party in
response to this provisional decision.
Mr C has also told us how stressful this matter has been and I can understand that the threat
of legal proceedings and a potential settlement against him when he had cover that should
have assisted him would have been a cause of significant worry. I therefore consider that
some further compensation is warranted over and above the claim being dealt with. I also
bear in mind however, that this could have been avoided if Mr C had responded sooner.
Having taken this all into account, I consider the sum of £100 to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
and require it to meet the claim for legal expenses and public liability (subject to any other
remaining terms of the policy); and pay £100 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr C has confirmed he accepts my provisional decision and has not added anything further. 
Red Sands does not accept my provisional decision. It has made a number of further 
submissions, which I have summarised below: 
I suggest that it had an obligation to assist Mr C understand his obligations beyond 
what is stated in the policy terms. It follows that I consider insurers have an extra-
contractual responsibility to prompt a policyholders co-operation. That imputation is 
not within the remit of FOS and is not fair. It went to exceptional effort to get Mr Cs cooperation. It called Mr C on 27 Feb 2020, 
9 March 2020 and 29 March 2020 and emailed him on and 22 April 2020, 5 and 20 
May 2020, 1 June 2020 and 9 and 16 July 2020. Mr C refused to respond to any of 
these communications, preventing an assessment on liability until after hugely 
inflated costs had already been incurred by the third party claimant.
The hire vehicle costs were accumulated during the period in which Mr C refused to 
respond. He alone is responsible for the consequences of his refusal to co-operate.
It was Mr C who provided insurance details to the claimant and he did not ask for the 
claimants insurance details in return, so he clearly communicated acceptance of 
legal responsibility for the accident, which he then ignored for six months. 
Throughout this period Mr C was fully cognisant of: (i) his own participation in the 
RTA, (ii) his tacit acceptance of fault shortly after the index incident; and (iii) the 
existence and development of that claim via our repeated and progressively insistent 
correspondence.
Mr C has subsequently sought to distance himself from the knowledge he possessed 
of this developing claim, and my provisional decision would permit him to divest 
himself of the burden of his insurance contract. 
I have outlined informational deficiencies in its correspondence by suggesting it 
failed to provide time limits for Mr C to respond. It asks me to explain the provision of 
such legal obligations I am seeking to impose on it.  
I have erred in law by asserting that it has any statutory, regulatory, or common law 
duty to guide a policyholder during the information gathering stage of a claims 
handling process. Indeed, guiding a policyholder in a third-party liability claim would 
remove the core neutrality of that evidence gathering and quite concerningly, become 
something else.
Its legal obligation as directed by the relevant legislation and the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook is only to respond to a third party claim. It would then determine 
its position and will look to the policyholder as stipulated in the insurance contract. It 
is here that Mr Cs fundamental breach resides - in failing to honour a contractual 
obligation he owed to it before financial prejudice had occurred.
It is therefore not a matter of non-compliance to which I can apply an assessment of 
equitable fairness but rather, a matter of fundamental breach by the policyholder.
Ive suggested it is also responsible for any failure to properly notify by the third party. 
Mr C denies receipt of the third party correspondence, suggesting that the letter was 
incorrectly addressed to him. But the address it has used is identical to that used by 
the claimants solicitors.
Of further concern is the assertion that it agreed to cover defence of the personal 
injury claim in August 2020. It did not confirm indemnity due to his policy breach and 
it has not conceded either indemnity or liability to the third partys legal 
representation.
Whether it defends the claim or it is made to pay the third party, the costs of doing so 
exceed the original value of the claim against Mr C. The prejudice to it will be 
crystallised once it is made to meet these expenses. My Final Decision will confirm 
that prejudice.
It remains clear that but for Mr Cs non-response, it would have been in a position to 
deploy any number of cost containment options. His refusal to co-operate prevented 
it from doing so during that initial cost development. The prejudice therefore wholly 
speaks for itself, and it is quite concerning that we do not observe that. 
The very notion of an Ombudsman sitting on appeal over their own previous decision 
is also concerning. So if I am not minded to change my decision, it asks that I recuse 
myself of this appeal and invite another Ombudsman to undertake a fresh 
assessment of the matter in the interest of due process and fair procedure.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaint process
Red Sands is very unhappy about my provisional decision and the notion that I sit in appeal 
over my previous decision and has asked I recuse myself from the case and another 
ombudsman review it. 
I appreciate Red Sands is disappointed with my provisional decision, especially given that 
the Investigator reached a different decision on the outcome of this complaint. However, we 
operate a two-tier process and as Mr C did not accept the Investigators recommendation, he 
was entitled to ask for an Ombudsmans decision. As I did not agree with the Investigators 
recommendation, I issued a provisional decision in order to give both parties the chance to 
respond to my reasons for doing so. The next stage in our process is for me to consider 
those responses and reconsider all the available evidence and reach my final decision on 
the complaint. It is only an Ombudsmans decision that is binding and is the final stage of our 
process and parties are not entitled to request a different Ombudsman consider their 
complaint. 
Notification of claim from third party
Mr C says he did not receive the letter from the third partys solicitor and therefore did not 
know there was a legal claim being made against him. Red Sands doesnt accept this as it 
says the letter was sent to the same address it has used for Mr C. I have looked at the 
correspondence. The letter from the solicitors was addressed to the correct property and 
road but Mr C lives in a flat and the solicitors letter didnt have the flat identifier on it, 
whereas I can see Red Sands file has the full address, including the individual property 
identifier. The letter from the solicitors was therefore misaddressed.
We are not a court of law and we do not have the power to take evidence on oath; we are an 
informal dispute resolution service. I have to consider the evidence available to me and, 
where there is a dispute, reach a conclusion as to what is most likely to have happened. In 
this case, Mr C says he did not receive this letter and the letter was misaddressed. Given 
this, it seems to me likely he did not receive it. 
I am not imposing any responsibility for this on Red Sands, as it claims. It is simply part of 
the relevant circumstances of the case that I am required to consider. I am satisfied that     
Mr C didnt receive that letter, and given that, I think it was feasible he didnt realise the 
urgency and importance of providing further information Red Sands and didnt breach the 
policy condition requiring him to notify Red Sands of a civil claim against him. 
Fair and reasonable
Red Sands says that there was such a fundamental breach of contract by Mr C that it is not 
appropriate to assess it in terms of fairness. I disagree. Red Sands was contracted to indemnify Mr C for his liability, including the legal costs of 
defending the claim made against him. My remit is to determine what I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome of this complaint is, having taken account of all the circumstances, 
including the relevant law, industry practice, industry guidelines and regulations. 
Communications from Red Sands
Red Sands says I have sought to impose on it legal obligations that do not exist, including a 
legal duty to guide Mr C in the information gathering stage of the claims process, which is 
beyond its contractual obligations under the policy and would mean there was no 
independent assessment of the claim and/or liability.  
Again, I do not agree. What I set out in my provisional decision was that Red Sands had an 
overriding duty to treat Mr C fairly and to provide clear fair information to him at all times.1 
And in the context of this claim, I think this means that its communications with him could 
have been clearer. 
Red Sands did contact Mr C several times but most of the communications, simply asked   
Mr C to contact it when he had a chance. There was reference to a claim from the third party 
and that Red Sands needed information from Mr C to defend it on his behalf. But there was 
no reference to the value of the claim, hire charges being accrued, or the potential 
consequences of not responding. It also didnt set out the usual claim process, or how it 
would propose to deal with claims such as this, such as the potential options of defending it 
entirely or settling without prejudice.  
I do not consider that it would be an onerous or unfair expectation on Red Sands to have 
provided such information in the circumstances, or that it would mean it could not properly 
assess any decision to either defend a third party claim or concede it. In my opinion, 
providing this information would have been fulfilling its requirements under the Principles for 
Businesses and been fair and reasonable. 
Personal injury claim
Red Sands denies it conceded the personal injury cover. In my provisional decision I set out 
that Red Sands had conceded to the Investigator that it would cover the personal injury 
claim in response to the Investigators recommendation: we have reviewed the points made 
and agree to your recommendation to look to cover  [Mr C] for the Personal Injury claim 
subject to  assessing the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. It did therefore 
confirm acceptance of this part of the claim.
I remain of the opinion that liability for both heads of claim (vehicle damage and personal 
injury) would turn on exactly the same evidence that Red Sands has said was compromised 
because Mr C didnt responded earlier, and that it would be difficult at best to defend the 
personal injury claim without also defending the vehicle damage claim. Confirming cover for 
one and not the other seems illogical and casts doubt on the arguments about prejudice due 
to the evidence relating to liability for the accident.
1 Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, Principles for Businesses Has Red Sands been prejudiced? 
In addition to the requirements on Red Sands to act fairly and reasonably generally, it is also 
required to establish that it has been prejudiced by any breach of condition it seeks to rely on 
to refuse a claim. 
Red Sands says it is beyond doubt it has been prejudiced by Mr Cs delay in responding to it 
and that financial prejudice will crystalise when and if it is compelled to pay the third party, or 
it chooses instead to challenge the claim. 
Insurers should not unreasonably reject a claim by relying on technical breaches of condition 
that are not materially connected with the circumstances of the claim. In other words, 
insurers need to show prejudice as a result of the breach of condition in order to reject the 
claim. The breach has to be material to the loss  not material to other considerations (such 
as underwriting prejudice and so on, which Red sands has also raised). This has long been 
our approach and is also ratified in legislation and the Financial Conduct Authority rules. 
So I have to consider if Red Sandss position would have been any different if Mr C had 
responded sooner than he did. Red Sands has suggested that it is obvious it has been 
prejudiced because the loss being claimed by the third party was increasing during this 
period. However in order to establish prejudice, I think Red Sands has to establish that it 
would have acted differently between April and September 2020 if Mr C had responded to it 
in that time.   
One of the reasons Red Sands says it was prejudiced is because evidence to help defend 
the claim might not be available any more due to the passage of time. The accident 
happened in February 2020 and the notification of claim from the third party was made in 
April 2020. And as mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr C provided details of a witness 
and there is no evidence he was contacted or that his evidence would have been any 
different in September 2020 than it would have been earlier. Theres no evidence that any 
evidence would have been available between April and September 2020 that wasnt 
available after this date. 
Red Sands also says that range of without prejudice choices available to us, as insurers, 
are now not only redundant but have been extinguished due to the delay by Mr C. So it was 
prevented from minimising its liability. 
However it has also said that if Mr C had responded sooner  and even though he denies 
liability for the accident  we would have immediately disposed of the claim for  [around 
£470], on a without prejudice basis, as the merit of doing so would have outweighed the 
FOS case fee in the event of any escalated complaint.
So Red Sands has confirmed that whatever Mr C might have had to say about the accident 
before September 2020 would not have made any difference and even if he had not agreed 
to it settling the claim for the moped, it would have done so anyway. 
There has been no explanation why Red Sands did not do so anyway, given it was aware of 
the hire charges accruing and the relatively low value of the moped from April 2020. Given 
that it says it would have settled the claim for the moped anyway, as it would not have been 
worth challenging, I am not persuaded it has established its position has been altered, as the information Mr C provided about the accident doesnt seem to have been the determining 
factor in whether to settle the claim with the third party.
It is difficult to accept therefore that the sole reason Red Sands did not respond 
commercially to the third party claim, and make a without prejudice offer to settle the cost of 
the moped, was due to Mr C not getting back to it before September 2020. The without 
prejudice options it refers to were available to Red Sands throughout. Of course, the fact it 
did not respond to the claim resulted in the hire charges increasing but, for the reasons 
given, I am not persuaded that this was solely due to delay by Mr C. 
Given all of the above, I remain of the opinion that it was not fair or reasonable to refuse this 
claim and Red Sands should now proceed with it and that it should pay Mr C £100 
compensation for the trouble caused to him.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
and require it to meet the claim (subject to any other remaining terms of the policy); and pay 
Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its wrongful refusal 
of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman