DRN-4269003
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money, 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card account he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H entered into an agreement with Madison to have access to credit with a card account 
that was opened for him in November 2019. The account had an opening credit limit of £500. 
There then followed two credit limit increases, in October 2020 up to £1,500 and then in 
October 2021 up to £2,500. 
Mr H says that Madison didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says that had it done so, Madison would have seen he had a history of debt 
issues. 
Madison didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check and validate Mr Hs financial circumstances before granting him the account and 
both of the credit limit increases. 
In my provisional decision dated 30 June 2023 I explained why I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint. I set out an extract below:
Mr H says that during the time he had the card he was in constant debt and had got into a 
cycle of borrowing.
Before granting the opening credit to Mr H, Madison carried out a credit check that included 
looking at his income and using statistical data to estimate what his monthly committed 
expenditure and outgoings might be. Based on that, Madison worked out whether the 
lending was affordable. From what Ive seen, I think Madison gathered a reasonable and 
proportionate amount of evidence and information from Mr H about his ability to repay the 
opening credit limit he was given on his account. The checks showed that Mr H already had 
around £37,000 in unsecured borrowing and ongoing credit commitments, much of it short 
term high cost lending. Whilst this is a substantial amount of debt to be managing, Mr Hs 
recent credit history appeared to be satisfactory, with no recent adverse markings on his 
credit file. 
There isnt a set criteria for what a proportionate check ought to encompass. Given that 
Madison was proposing to give Mr H an opening limit of £500, I dont think it was necessary 
for it to verify Mr Hs income or ask about his other committed expenditure (outside of the 
existing credit commitments the credit check would have shown). Having said that, I think 
the level of existing borrowing, although there had not been any recent defaults or 
significant arrears on his credit file, suggests to me that it would have been proportionate to 
find out more about Mr Hs typical monthly expenditure. Given that Mr Hs bank statements 
showed he was receiving a net monthly income of somewhere between £3,200 and £4,200 
and that he was being granted a manageable initial credit limit, I dont think proportionate 
checks would have been likely to review any major concerns about affordability at this 
point.
Turning to the two credit limit increases, Ive seen that whilst Mr Hs income remained 
broadly consistent, he was continuing to make regular use of high cost borrowing. Madisons 
own credit check estimated he would have around £800 remaining by way of disposable 
income for the first increase and around £600 by the time of the second increase. 
Mr Hs bank statements from before the first credit limit increase support that he was  
continuing to rely heavily on high cost lending. The total amounts he was borrowing each 
month varied from just under £1,000 to just over £2,500. Ive also noted he was taking out 
much larger loans from time to time, possibly for consolidation purposes. Ive seen that one 
of these loans, for £5,000, was taken out in September 2020 with Madison, shortly before Mr 
H was granted his first credit limit increase. I should add that in September 2021, shortly 
before being granted his second credit limit increase, Mr H took out another loan, for £9,000, 
this time with a separate provider. 
Although I recognise that the lending criteria for a loan would be different to that of a credit 
card, the credit check Madison carried out before granting the £5,000 loan in 
September 2020 shows that Mr H now owed around £40,000 in unsecured credit, having 20 
active credit accounts. Whilst it may well be that on the face of things Mr H was able to 
juggle his finances so that he was able to meet his credit and regular living expenses apart 
from his credit commitments, such as food, housing costs and utilities, this was taking place 
against a background of excessive high-cost borrowing. Had Madison taken reasonable and 
proportionate steps to gain a better of idea about Mr Hs overall financial situation, it would 
have seen that Mr Hs level of indebtedness was therefore worsening. 
It follows that I dont think the checks Madison carried out at the time of granting the first 
credit limit increase were enough.
I therefore currently think that had Madison carried out further reasonable and 
proportionate checks, these most likely would have shown that Mr H could not afford the  
two credit limit increases he was granted.
Madison confirmed that it accepted the findings in my provisional decision and therefore did 
not intend to provide any further evidence. 
Mr H has also accepted my provisional decision. However, he has pointed out that his 
redress should also include any interest and charges incurred following his credit limit 
increase to £2,500 in October 2021. The redress I set out in my provisional decision and 
here in this final decision provides for that, but I am happy to confirm that to be the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Mr H and Madison accepts my provisional findings and there is no additional 
evidence to consider, I am partially upholding this complaint on the same basis as my 
provisional decision. This means that the redress I set out below will apply to all credit limit 
increases that followed the initial opening credit limit of £500. 
Putting things right  what Madison needs to do
Madison shouldnt have increased Mr Hs credit limit from £500 to £1,500 in October 2020, 
or from £1,500 to £2,500 in October 2021. Madison therefore needs to do the following: Rework Mr Hs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £500, being the previous credit limit 
increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Madison should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file from 
October 2020 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Madison 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file from 
October 2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. Madison 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to partially uphold this complaint and to 
require Madison CF UK Limited to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman