DRN-2956163
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc is holding him liable for debt from a credit card he 
says he didnt apply for or use.
What happened
Following the death of Mr Ts wife, he found a number of unused credit cards in their 
household safe in his name; one of which was a Santander credit card. After making some 
enquiries, he discovered that a significant debt had been accumulated on this credit card 
which bared his name. Mr T says that he shouldnt have been held responsible for this debt, 
so he contacted Santander. 
After an investigation of Mr Ts claims, Santander initially told him that it had a recording 
evidencing his authorisation to open the account, so Mr T requested this along with details of 
the transactions carried out on the account.
Mr T says that Santander responded to his request refusing to provide the information as it 
was a police matter. Mr T says that he was unhappy with this response as he was being held 
liable for the debt and had a right to the information. So, he made a complaint about 
Santanders conduct and the credit card being opened in his name without his consent.
Santander dismissed Mr Ts claim that the credit card had been opened fraudulently. It 
pointed out that:
Some of the transactions on the account coincided with genuine business payments 
and personal travel
Statements and cards had been sent to Mr Ts genuine address since the account 
was opened in 2006
Mr Ts wife was added as an additional cardholder in 2007
The credit card repayments were made via direct debit from Mr Ts Santander 
business account
The internet banking was accessed regularly for both of these accounts which were 
linked; and both would have shown on the online banking platform
A call was made to Santander in August 2011 relating to the account whereby Mr T 
gave permission for his wife to speak on his behalf
But it did recognise that it could have dealt with his concerns better. To compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid him £150.
Mr T remained unhappy that he was being held liable for a debt he says he didnt authorise 
or use, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An Investigator at our service compiled evidence and testimony from both parties. After 
reviewing this, he concluded that Santander hadnt done anything wrong. He reached this 
outcome based on the following reasons:
New cards and statements were sent to Mr Ts home address over the course of the 
fourteen years the account was open. Mr T also contacted Santander in 2011 
regarding the account, passed security and authorised his wife to speak on his 
behalf. These factors combined made it unlikely he was unaware of the account.
Payments were made from the credit card to Mr Ts genuine business account. 
Furthermore, the balance of the credit card was also paid off from his business 
account. The Investigator concluded that not only did this persuade him that Mr T 
likely knew of the account, but that he benefitted from it. 
The contact details associated with the account matched that of Mr Ts.
Mr T disagreed with the Investigators assessment of his complaint. He:
Did recollect authorising his wife to discuss some account issues with Santander, but 
not relating to the credit card account.
Remained unhappy with the way in which Santander treated him.
Pointed out that no evidence existed that proved he was responsible for taking out 
the credit card
As Mr T disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My first task is to determine ifon the balance of probabilitiesMr T authorised for the 
credit card to be taken out in his name. There are a number of factors to consider here. 
Santander has already confirmed that the application for the credit card no longer exists due 
to the passage of time. But as Mr T was linked to a genuine business account that had 
already been set up with Santander, its likely that minimal checks were carried out in the 
authorisation process; as Mr T was an existing customer and had already been through the 
relevant checks. Santander has also confirmed that as Mr T was linked to both the business 
bank account and the personal credit card, both accounts would have shown on his online 
banking. The balance of the personal credit card was also being paid off via direct debit from 
his existing business account and all correspondences for both accounts were being sent to 
his home address.
This means that whoever applied for the credit card would likely have required access to 
Mr Ts business account and know enough information about him to fill out the relevant 
information on the application. They also would have needed enough information regarding 
his online banking and access to his address to pick up monthly statements, cards and PINs. 
Its therefore possible that Mr Ts late wife opened the account as she had the relevant tools 
to do so. She knew sufficient information regarding her husband to fill out the application, 
had access to the same address and Mr T has already admitted that his late wife had 
unrestricted access to the business account; as she took care of the business finances. But 
this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr T wasnt aware of his late wifes actions. Its equally 
possible that Mr T had given his late wife unrestricted authorisation to act on his behalf in all 
financial matters or was aware of the accounts existence. I will explore these possibilities 
further.
Santander has made a number of representations that it feels shows Mr T was aware of the 
credit card account. It has said that in the circa fourteen years the account was open, 
numerous correspondencesincluding monthly statements and new cards/PINswere sent 
to Mr Ts home address. Whilst I acknowledge that its possible that Mr Ts late wife was intercepting and hiding/destroying these correspondences, I find it unlikely she managed to 
do this with all of them over a fourteen-year period considering these would specifically be 
addressed to Mr T and not his business. And although Mr T has admitted his late wife looked 
after the business account, I also find it unlikely he didnt realise the direct debit from this 
account was paying off this credit card every month for a significant period of time. But even 
had Mr Ts late wife been able to do this, there are several other reasons that persuade me 
that Mr T was likely aware of the credit cards existence.
If Mr Ts late wife applied for the credit card without his knowledge for her own personal 
gainand with the intention to hide this from Mr TI find some of the behaviour that 
proceeds this to be contrary to that intention.
There are a substantial number of transactionssome of high valueon the account that 
appear to financially benefit Mr Ts business. This doesnt appear to be conducive with the 
behaviour of someone who has applied for a credit card fraudulently with the intention of 
hiding this from their partner. Furthermore, Mr T has admitted that his late wife was 
responsible for the business finances. So, it would appear more likely in the circumstances 
that this was the purpose of the credit card application and use considering the link to the 
business account and expenditure. Mr T likely trusted his wife to arrange the financial affairs 
of the business, and I also think its likely this extended to their joint finances. I say this as 
Mr T gave his late wife unrestricted access to his business account despite her not being an 
authorised account user. This is supported by the mobile telephone number used to register 
online banking and the fact that Mr T has claimed he was oblivious to the accounts 
management and transactions. While I understand why Mr T would have trusted his wife 
with his personal and business finances, I dont find it fair to hold Santander responsible for 
any repercussions that arise from providing unrestricted access to a third party. I also find it 
reasonable to conclude that its likely Mr Ts late wife was authorised to act on his behalf 
more broadly when it came to financial matters.
This is further supported by a number of balance transfers into the credit card from 
numerous financial providers. The credit card subject to this complaint was opened with a 
balance transfer from another provider. And a further six balance transfers were made into 
the account following this between 2008-2019. Santander has been unable to provide 
information on the initial balance transfer and following two balance transfers made in 2008 
and 2012 due to the passage of time. But it has been able to show that the balance transfers 
carried out between 2018-2019 were from accounts held jointly in Mr T and his late wifes 
name. It has pointed out that while it cant evidence the initial balance transfers, its policy 
dictates that verification checks would have been carried out to ensure that any balance 
transfers would have originated from an account held in Mr Ts name.
I think this further supports the likelihood of Mr T allowing his late wife to take care of their 
joint finances. Mr T has claimed that he was unaware of the accounts where the balance 
transfers originated from, but it seems unlikely that this is the case. I find it more likely, for 
the reasons Ive already highlighted above, that Mr T was either aware of the accounts in 
question or allowed his late wife to take care of all finances associated with them jointly or 
the business. In both scenarios, its unreasonable to hold Santander responsible for any 
account or debt that accrued as a result of this.
I also find it likelyas with the expenditure of the credit card subject to this complaintthat 
Mr T is likely to have benefited from the expenditure of the financial accounts where the 
balance transfers originated from.
Ive also considered the telephone call to Santander in 2011 whereby Mr T passed security 
and passed the phone to his wife to discuss the accounts. Mr T has made submissions that 
he doesnt remember this specific incident; and this isnt surprising considering the passage of time. But he thinks it more likely he thought he was giving permission for his late wife to 
discuss his business account held with Santander. I find this to be a plausible argument, but 
I question again why a person whod taken a credit card out in Mr Ts name, without his 
consent and with the intention to hide it from him, would risk being uncovered by doing this 
considering both accounts were linked. Furthermore, whilst I have no telephone call 
recording to rely upon, its clear from the notes that this call related to the credit card 
account. I therefore find it more likely than not that security questions would have somehow 
incorporated the credit card being discussed.
For the reasons Ive given above, its difficult to reach any other conclusion than that Mr T 
likely was aware of the credit card; or at the very least, allowed his late wife to manage their 
domestic and business finances. I appreciate that Mr T has vehemently denied and 
disagreed with this opinion, but I must reach a conclusion based on the evidence available 
and what I feel is the more likely scenario. Having said that, the evidence does strongly 
suggest that Mr Ts late wife was likely the person controlling the account. But this doesnt 
mean he wasnt aware of, or authorised, the opening and use of the account.
As a final point, I wanted to reassure Mr T that even had I concluded that hed not authorised 
the application and use of the credit card, I still wouldnt find that it fair or reasonable for 
Santander to be held responsible for the debt. While a financial business cant hold a 
consumer responsible for a debt theyd not applied for or authorised, it cant be ignored that 
Mr T has financially benefitted from the credit. 
Having looked at the transactions carried out on the credit card, there are a number of 
payments to Mr Ts business and to businesses associated with it. While Mr T has accepted 
that he is happy to be held responsible for these payments, I cant be sure that he didnt 
benefit from any of the other payments to retailers, currency exchange providerslikely for 
trips abroadand the credit card balances transferred to the account. Mr T and his late 
wifes finances were likely intertwined at the time and its therefore reasonable to suggest 
that any expenditure likely benefitted them jointly. As such, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for Santander to be held responsible a debt Mr T benefitted from personally, or for his 
business.
Lastly, Mr T has pointed out that Santander mistreated him in numerous aspects of his 
claim. Santander has admitted that it did make errors and paid Mr T £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Considering my findings above, I think this was a fair offer in the 
circumstances. Mr T hasnt outlined any additional distress or inconvenience caused 
specifically by Santanders errors other than the frustration caused by mixed messaging and 
being denied information relating to the account. Ive highlighted why I think Mr T should be 
held liable for debt, and Santander was entitled to chase him for this after itd investigated 
his claim and declined it. I do think it could have done better in supporting its position and 
supplied Mr T with the statements for the account it was holding him responsible for, but the 
£150 is sufficient to cover the impact of this to Mr T. I realise that this may seem like an 
insignificant amount to Mr T considering the difficult and distressing ordeal he has been 
through. But I think this reflects the specific administrative errors Santander has made.
Ive also noted that since bring his complaint to our service, Mr T has expressed 
dissatisfaction with the interest and charges against the account. However, Mr Ts initial 
complaint was that he disputed the account and debt altogether. As this a new complaint, 
hell need to direct it to Santander before our service can look into things further. As such, I 
wont be covering this in my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I find the compensation awarded by Santander to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore wont be requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman