DRN-4133335
The complaint
Mr O complains about Health Shield Friendly Society Limiteds refusal to pay a claim under 
his health cash policy.
What happened
Mr O holds a health cash policy, which includes cover for ultrasound scans. 
After having an ultrasound costing £135, Mr O submitted a claim. Health Shield asked Mr O 
to provide details of the doctor who had referred him for the scan, so it could check that the 
claim was covered under the policy terms. Mr O said that hed had a consultation with the 
doctor who had carried out the ultrasound. After Health Shield refused to pay his claim, he 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr O hadnt shown 
that he was referred for the scan as required under the policy terms. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
We will pay benefitwhen a person entitled to benefit has a specialist consultation with a 
practitioner who is a member or fellow of one of the Royal Colleges or listed as a specialist 
on the General Medical Council register
It then says:
We will also pay benefitwhen a person entitled to benefit is charged for private treatment, 
medical tests, ECG, X-ray, pathology fees, MRI scans, Mammograms, CT scans and 
ultrasounds carried out in an appropriate department of a hospital or referred for as part of 
the consultation.
Mr O didnt have the ultrasound in a hospital. So for the cost of the ultrasound to be covered 
under the policy, he would need to have been referred for this as part of a specialist 
consultation. 
Mr O has provided a receipt from a private GP surgery for a musculoskeletal ultrasound 
scan and consultation by a consultant radiologist (Dr D). Dr D is a specialist on the General 
Medical Council register. 
The issue here is that the ultrasound scan and consultation were done by a radiologist. A 
radiologist is a specialist in examining scans, and so my understanding is that they wouldnt 
normally see a patient to assess their symptoms and decide on the best course of action for 
them (for example treatment, or further investigations such as a scan). I would therefore 
assume that Dr Ds consultation was to go over the results of the scan with Mr O, rather than 
determine the need for the scan itself. That is why Health Shield asked Mr O to provide the 
details of the doctor who referred him for the scan in the first place. 
As theres no evidence to support that Mr O was referred for the ultrasound as part of the 
consultation with Dr D, I think it was reasonable for Health Shield to turn down the claim. 
However, if my above assumption is incorrect, I would suggest that Mr O provides Health 
Shield with further information from Dr D about what led to him having the ultrasound. Health 
Shield can then reconsider the matter if appropriate. 
I appreciate that Mr O did have a consultation with Dr D, but it seems the charge was for the 
ultrasound with the consultation included. As the invoice doesnt separate the cost of the 
ultrasound and the consultation, I dont require Health Shield to make a payment to Mr O for 
the consultation. 
Mr O has raised concerns with the staff member who investigated his complaint because of 
their job title. However, Im satisfied it was up to Health Shield which staff member it 
arranged to look into Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman