DRN-4198377
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly declined a claim 
under a warranty.
What happened
Mr Z contacted D&G to send an engineer to repair a faulty dishwasher. When the engineer 
visited, he said he wouldnt repair the dishwasher because it was in the porch to the house. 
He said it could have been affected by cold air and condensation and wouldnt work on it.
When Mr Z complained, D&G maintained its decision not to repair the dishwasher. So, Mr Z 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said D&G has 
acted in line with the terms and conditions and it was reasonable for it to rely on its experts 
opinion.
As Mr Z didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When the engineer visited, the dishwasher was in the porch to the house. Its my 
understanding that the dishwasher was in the porch for a few days. The terms and 
conditions said the policy didnt cover loss, damage or impairment caused by issues such as 
humidity, weather conditions and abnormally high or low temperatures. The engineer 
assessed that the dishwasher was likely to have been affected by condensation and the cold 
temperature in the porch. 
The engineer also assessed that the dishwasher was unsafe to work on. The policy said the 
product needed to be compliant with relevant safety standards and that it was for the 
engineer to determine whether an appliance was safe to work on. 
Im aware Mr Z wants the dishwasher to be repaired and the policy premiums refunded to 
him. However, in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for the engineer and D&G to 
decide the appliance was likely to have been affected by it being located in the porch and 
that it wasnt safe to repair. I think D&G acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy in how it dealt with the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require D&G 
to do anything further. It doesnt need to repair the dishwasher or refund the premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman