DRN-3046720
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with how Target Servicing Limited has managed her equity loan.
What happened
In August 2007, Ms D purchased a property using a mortgage and a government First 
Time Buyers Initiative scheme. This meant she received financial assistance from the 
government in the form of an equity loan, which she agreed to pay interest on until the 
loan was repaid. Ms D started making these interest payments in 2010.
In June 2012, Ms D missed her interest payment and the account fell into arrears. Ms D 
wasnt able to recover these arrears and while she made some payments after this date, 
the vast majority of payments were missed. There are times when Ms D entered into 
payment arrangements for the debt, but due to her personal situation she was unable to 
repay the arrears or maintain her required monthly interest payment.
In 2017, Target took over responsibility for this account from the original administrator.
In August 2017, Ms D contacted Target about selling the property. At this time she was 
advised by Target that she was unable to sell the property until the arrears on the account 
were cleared. Ms D then contacted her local MP about the situation, who contacted 
Homes England. The MP received a response from them in January 2018 and this set out 
that they had contacted Target to obtain further information about Ms Ds account and to 
see if a case could be made for her to sell the property and use the proceeds of sale to 
clear the arrears. However Target says theres no record of this contact on its system.
Ms D formally complained to Target about her arrears and how her account had been 
handled in 2018. In June 2018, Target responded to her complaint, but said it had 
administered the arrears correctly. At this time Ms Ds account was £21,694.40 in 
arrears. Ms D and Target continued to correspond about the debt and arrears from this 
point. Ms D was unable to meet a payment arrangement and Target wouldnt allow her 
to sell the property. In January 2020 she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. She said Target shouldve let Ms D sell her 
property in August 2017, when she first contacted it about this. So she said interest and 
charges should be removed from Ms Ds account from 2017, when she first asked to 
sell. She also awarded Ms D £800 compensation.
Target disagreed with her outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that 
due to the level of arrears, Ms D wasnt able to sell the property to clear this debt. It also 
said it didnt know if there was enough equity in the property for Ms D to clear her 
mortgage, the equity loan and her arrears. As of June 2021 Ms Ds account was 
£34,503.62 in arrears.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2021. I have copied the findings and 
redress sections of my provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate there have been a number of issues in this case, it seems at this 
point what is ultimately left to decide is if Ms D shouldve been allowed to sell her 
property. And if so, when this shouldve happened. I dont agree with all the 
conclusions reached by the investigator and I dont consider her view does address 
the full complexities of selling Ms Ds property. However, I am in agreement with her 
that Ms D shouldve been allowed to sell.
At this point, Ms D is over £34,000 in arrears. Her initial loan was £107,500, so 
currently she owes over 30% of the value of her initial loan in missed interest 
payments. From what we understand of Ms Ds personal situation, she will struggle 
to meet her monthly interest payments themselves, so shes not in a financial 
position to clear her arrears on top of this. If shes not allowed to sell the property, 
she will simply continue to accrue arrears. And, as Target has set out, she may 
already be in a position where the equity in the property isnt enough to cover 
everything she now owes  so I cant see how it can be fair or reasonable to allow 
this situation to continue.
Ms D has provided us with an information booklet from when she first took out this 
loan that says she can sell the property at any time. But these arent the full terms 
and conditions of her equity loan. And Ive seen nothing from her testimony or the 
notes we hold that suggest she tried to sell the property before 2017, when Target 
had then taken over the loan. Weve explained to Ms D that we cant look at the 
company that administered this loan before Target  or the sale of this loan. So I 
cant comment on what she was told originally. But from the paperwork Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Targets terms werent simply that Ms D could sell at any time.
Target sent Ms D a Customer Information pack, Transaction - Loan Redemption in 
2019, which explains its process for redeeming equity loans. This sets out that:
If you are looking to redeem your equity loan via a house sale you must be 
aware that any arrears on your account must be cleared as part of the 
process prior to completion taking place. If you are unable to clear all of the 
arrears on your account by completion you may be able to sign an interest 
payment shortfall agreement to continue to settle the arrears balance. More 
details about this are available towards the end of this information pack.
And later in the pack it sets out:
Where there are not sufficient funds to settle the interest payment you must 
engage with us directly and either agree a payment to cover the shortfall or 
enter into an interest payment shortfall agreement. We will not grant authority 
to complete until all monies due to the agency have either been settled or 
agreement reached on clearing the sum after completion.
So there are provisions in place for the situation Ms D is in now. I appreciate the 
above says that Ms D may be able to enter into an agreement  and in this case 
Target is saying it wouldnt accept this in Ms Ds case. But provisionally, I consider it 
should.
Target set out in a call with Ms D that she needed to clear her arrears by the time her 
loan was due to end in 2032. This now means Ms D needs to clear nine years worth 
of missed payments in 11 years  meaning she nearly has to make double payments each month to do this. And Targets only solution for this situation is for Ms D to enter 
into a payment plan, but considering the level of arrears shes in, I cant see how this 
will change her overall situation.
From what we know of Ms Ds personal and financial situation, a payment plan that 
could substantially reduce her arrears in this timeframe isnt affordable. So without 
Ms D having some form of windfall, regardless of what happens now, Ms D will be in 
arrears when this loan ends.
Based on the above, I consider Ms D shouldve been able to sell her property a 
number of years ago. I consider the sale shouldve been agreed in January 2018, 
when Homes England became involved in this case. At this time Ms D had c.£20,000 
in arrears, so I think it shouldve been clear to all parties that selling was the only 
reasonable step forward.
However, property sales are not instant. I accept that it wouldve taken some time for 
this process to start  and then once Ms Ds flat was on the market, the process of 
finding a buyer and completing the sale also takes time. Its simply not possible for us 
to know now how long it wouldve taken to secure a sale for Ms Ds flat. Or what 
value she wouldve received for it. So Ive had to make some assumptions.
My research suggests property sales take on average between four and six months 
to complete. So assuming Ms Ds property went on the market in February 2018, the 
sale shouldve then completed by approximately June 2018. As Ive set out above, at 
this time Ms Ds arrears were £21,694.40. Ms Ds contract sets out that she must pay 
interest up until the date of sale, so based on my assumptions, I think this is a 
reasonable figure to apply as the amount of arrears she wouldve owed when the 
property shouldve sold. And this is therefore the point when I think she wouldve 
stopped accruing arrears, as the debt either wouldve been cleared or she wouldve 
started a payment shortfall agreement.
I appreciate Ms D has raised concerns about the full amount of arrears on her 
account since Target took over it. But I wouldnt have expected it to proactively 
suggest to Ms D she could sell her property  especially when this was against what 
it considered appropriate action in her case. So I cant say she wouldnt have built the 
arrears from 2017 to June 2018, as she wasnt in a position to make the interest 
payments  and these were always due. Im only asking Target to arrange for the 
arrears from after the date I consider the property shouldve sold  so from July 2018 
onwards to be written off.
Considering the property market, its possible that Ms Ds flat is worth more now than 
it wouldve been in 2018. But, if the property has gained in value since 2018, then 
both parties will gain from this, despite Ms D not covering interest payments to date. I 
say this because her terms set out that the repayment sum for the loan is based on 
either 50% of the market valuation or the sales price  whichever is higher. So I dont 
consider the potential increase in value in the property needs to be a factor in how 
things are put right.
What Im proposing Target does to put things right
I intend for Target to work with Ms D to arrange the sale of her property. The steps in 
the Loan redemption information pack should be followed to do this. If there is a more 
up-to-date version of this pack, Target should supply this to our service for review as 
part of its response to this provisional decision.If the valuation for Ms Ds property isnt enough to clear all her outstanding debt, 
Target should put in place an Interest payment shortfall agreement. This will likely 
include Ms D completing an up-to-date Income and Expenditure form. Ms D needs to 
cooperate with Target in providing the relevant information so this agreement can be 
put in place.
I intend for Target to arrange for Ms Ds arrears from July 2018 onwards to be written 
off, as I consider it most likely her property wouldve sold by June 2018  meaning 
her arrears were capped at this point in time.
I also intend for Target to make a compensation payment to Ms D. While I 
understand what its process was, I cant agree it was fairly applied in this case. I 
acknowledge it did try and work with Ms D in relation to this debt. But I think it 
shouldve been apparent to Target in 2018 that it needed to treat Ms Ds case 
differently and that the property sale shouldve been agreed. I cant see that any of its 
efforts, such as accepting reduced payments short-term or two-week holds on the 
account, wouldve been enough to rectify the overall issue here. So I consider it 
should pay her £750 in compensation for delaying this sale and the distress this has 
caused Ms D.
Target responded to the provisional decision saying it needed to consult with senior 
management and Homes England. It then confirmed it didnt contest the provisional 
decision.
Ms D didnt accept the provisional decision. She said that the arrears have arisen by 
Targets errors and lack of support, as there hasnt ever been any consideration for her 
vulnerabilities or financial difficulties. Ms D said Target had never acknowledged the 
emotional impact this had on her or the distress caused to her by how her arrears were 
handled. She also raised the mishandling of her case and a GDPR breach in relation to 
her details being incorrect and another customers details being sent to her. Ms D said her 
arrears should be written off from 2017 when she first contacted Target and the distress 
caused to her should be considered by our service. She provided us with a letter she sent 
to Target from 2017 and a timeline of events.
So the complaint has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept this is a very difficult and distressing situation for Ms D. However, I cant agree with 
her statements that the arrears have arisen only by Targets errors or its handling of her 
account. Ms D stopped making regular payments to this account in 2012, so by the time 
Target took over this account she was over £15,000 in arrears.
I accept Target needed to work with Ms D and treat her fairly, but I cant say it caused this 
situation. Ms D made a financial commitment to pay this loan and she wasnt able to meet 
that due to her personal situation  not a situation Target created. And, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, even if Target had put her account on hold or arranged a payment plan, 
she ultimately wasnt in a position to make full payments when they were then due.
Ive considered Ms Ds arguments as to why the arrears should be cleared from when Target 
took over the account, but I dont agree this is the correct time.Ive reviewed Ms Ds letter to Target from August 2017 as well as the timeline shes 
provided. I accept that Homes England had some involvement in this case, and the potential 
sale of the property, before January 2018. But my decision can only focus on the actions of 
Target and what I consider it shouldve done. While both parties have an important role in 
Ms Ds account, our service only has the power to consider Targets actions in this case. 
Also, while I accept Homes England had begun looking into this case in August 2017, as 
Ms Ds own letter states, a decision had not been made at that time. And, even if Target had 
temporarily put payments on hold, in line with Ms Ds terms, payments are due up to the 
date of sale. So I cant agree that if things had gone as they should have, Ms D wouldnt 
have had to make any payments to her loan from mid-2017.
Ms D has told us that a Senior Manager and Mortgage Administrator at Target promised to 
progress the sale of the property, but didnt do this. However, having seen this 
correspondence, the person who wrote the letter didnt work at Target, they actually worked 
for Homes England. But in any event, this letter is from January 2018, when I have agreed 
action shouldve begun to arrange the sale.
The first formal communication Ive seen which shows that a sale could potentially be 
negotiated, despite the process at that time that a property couldnt be sold with arrears, is 
the above letter, from January 2018. I cant agree Target shouldve gone against its 
approach at an earlier date, as it did require input from Homes England to do this. And so I 
think this is the first time Target couldve seriously considered treating Ms D differently and in 
a way that wasnt in line with policy at the time. And so I stand by the dates set out in my 
provisional decision.
In the same respect, I do acknowledge that how the debt has been administered and how 
long this situation has been going on has caused Ms D distress. But that is why I awarded 
her £750 in compensation. I still think this figure accounts for the avoidable distress Target 
caused, so Im not increasing this figure.
In relation to the administration issues, arrears handling and data errors, Target sent Ms D a 
cheque for £300 as compensation for these mistakes in August 2019. The letter confirms 
this award is also for errors in a letter, which included another customers reference. Our 
investigator set out in her view why she considered this amount was fair and also explained 
that we couldnt award any compensation for complaints handling, as this is not a regulated 
activity.
Im in agreement with the investigator that this amount seems fair for what I can see 
happened. I appreciate this whole situation has been very difficult for Ms D, but our role isnt 
to punish a business. And the situation Ms D found herself in would be distressing for any 
customer, regardless of how it was then handled by the business. I can see from Ms Ds 
complaint letters that a lot of her concerns and distress started long before Target took over 
this account. And this is also the case for the errors with her personal information, as, for 
example, I can see her name is spelt incorrectly on the original paperwork she signed. So 
Im satisfied the £300 already awarded to Ms D is fair for these mistakes and Im not now 
asking Target to increase this award.  
Putting things right
Target Servicing Limited needs to work with Ms D to arrange the sale of her property. 
The steps in the Loan redemption information pack should be followed to do this.
If the valuation for Ms Ds property isnt enough to clear all her outstanding debt, Target 
Servicing Limited should put in place an Interest payment shortfall agreement. This will 
likely include Ms D completing an up-to-date Income and Expenditure form. Ms D needs to cooperate with Target Servicing Limited in providing the relevant information so this 
agreement can be put in place.
Target Servicing Limited should arrange for Ms Ds arrears from July 2018 onwards to be 
written off, as I consider it most likely her property wouldve sold by June 2018  
meaning her arrears were capped at this point in time.
Target Servicing Limited should make a compensation payment to Ms D for £750.
While I understand what its process was, I cant agree it was fairly applied in this case. I 
acknowledge it did try and work with Ms D in relation to this debt. But I think it shouldve 
been apparent to Target in 2018 that it needed to treat Ms Ds case differently and that 
the property sale shouldve been agreed. I cant see that any of its efforts, such as 
accepting reduced payments short-term or two-week holds on the account, wouldve 
been enough to rectify the overall issue here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint against 
Target Servicing Limited. Target Servicing Limited should arrange to start carrying out the 
actions set out above within 28 days of receiving notice of Ms Ds acceptance of this 
decision.
Ms D should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, Ms D rejects my decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and Target Servicing Limited as to whether the 
redress Ive awarded remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding 
on the offeror after rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman