DRN-2369090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct Bank, will not refund a 
disputed transaction which took place on their joint account.
Mr D further complains about a transaction from his sole account.
As Mr D has been in correspondence with this service, for ease, I will refer to him throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr D is disputing two payments made to a bar on 7 October 2019. The payments were made 
at approximately 2am and within a short time of each other.  The first transaction was made 
from his sole account at 1:57 am, the second from a joint account at 2:34 am.  A further 
transaction was made about a week later  but this was refunded by First Direct 
straightaway.
Mr D and his friends had travelled abroad for a stag party. They had been at another event
during the day and were visiting a bar in the evening for drinks. Mr D told us he had been 
drinking all day. The next morning, Mr D said he tried to use his card and realised it had 
been blocked. He then spoke to HSBC about these blocked transactions and this is when he 
found out about the disputed ones.
Three other cards, including one from another bank, had also been used during the early 
hours and the following morning, all of these had been blocked as well. These form the basis 
of separate complaints with this service.
First Direct told us that on Mr Ds sole account, two further transactions were attempted at 
3:04 and 3:05 am but both triggered its fraud detection system and were declined.  On the 
joint account, a further attempt at 3:02 also triggered its system and this was also declined.
In relation to the payment which went through a week later, First Direct thinks the merchant 
used an old authorisation code to manually process the payment.  However, First Direct was 
satisfied the payment had not been authorised by Mr D so it refunded it straight away.
When First Direct did not uphold Mr Ds complaint, he came to this service.  Our 
investigators looked into matters in more detail but didnt think they could ask First Direct to 
do anymore.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have also considered Mr Ds complaints across all his accounts as they have helped to put
these transactions into context. I know Mr D agrees this with this being the best approach.
Having done so, Im afraid its not good news for Mr D as I have arrived at the same decision
as the investigator.
In short, First Direct is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs
2017). So, when Mr D says he didnt make this transaction, my primary concern is to come
to a view about whether I think he authorised it or not.
Authorisation is a two-stage test. It consists of authentication and consent  and I remind
myself that it is for First Direct to show Mr D authorised the payment, not for Mr D to show 
that he did not.
Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
That is, Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used. Im afraid I cant accept Mr Ds
submission that his card was cloned. This service has never seen the successful
cloning of a chip inside bank cards  so on balance, I dont think thats likely to have
happened here.
Mr D told us he arrived at the bar around midnight and left at approximately 1am. He thinks
he used a card to buy some drinks. But I dont think Mr Ds recollection can be right because 
looking at the transactions and attempted transactions across all the accounts he has raised 
a dispute about, I can see that his cards and PIN and were being used well past 2am and 
potentially until 3am.  As Mr D woke up the following morning with the cards in his 
possession, I think its reasonable to conclude that he was in the same place as the cards 
during the early hours.
This leads me to conclude that Mr D may not remember the events of that day clearly, and
so, his evidence may not carry the weight it ordinarily would. In addition, I cant see any
evidence of Mr Ds genuine transaction in the bar. It certainly does not appear to have been
made on any of the cards which this service has been looking in to.
There were also no balance enquiries carried out which suggests that the person using the
card knew there was enough money in the account.
Ive also noted that when transactions were declined on Mr Ds First Direct card, other cards
from other accounts were then used for the same amounts. Again, not the actions of a
fraudster but someone who knows that they have an alternative way to make these
payments.
I note First Direct has submitted that there has been no clear compromise of Mr Ds PIN. I
have taken this into account  although I have attached very little weight to it in considering
the element of consent.
However, for the reasons Ive given above, I think Mr D authorised the disputed payments.
Ive also thought about whether First Direct did enough here to protect Mr Ds account  and 
I think that it did. I dont think the successful transaction was so out of character on Mr Ds
account that HSBC ought to have been alerted to it. But I am pleased to see that the
subsequent payments triggered its fraud detection systems and were blocked.In coming to a decision, I have had regard to the further payment which was processed a 
week later by the same merchant as the disputed transaction.  I accept that this is unusual 
and perhaps calls into doubt the integrity of the merchant  but I cant agree, on balance, 
that this alone shows that the earlier payments were not authorised.  
In the circumstances, I think Mr D authorised the payments. He may have paid more than
he thought he was and probably regrets it now  but he must take responsibility for his
actions. What that means is that I dont think First Direct has been unfair or unreasonable in 
refusing to refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman