DRN-2691302
The complaint
 The complaint events happened between November and December 2018. Mrs Cs Financial 
Adviser was SR Investment Associates Ltd (SR). She held an investment account (the 
account) with a third-party, Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity). 
SR had access to the account and authority to instruct, on Mrs Cs behalf, within it. 
On 29 November and 1 December, SR received instructions, falsely purporting to be from 
Mrs C, to withdraw money (totalling almost £20,000) from the account and to have the 
money paid to a new bank account. Both instructions were passed by SR to Fidelity and 
executed (which involved liquidation of Mrs Cs assets and remittance of the proceeds to the 
new bank account). Mrs C seeks compensation for her loss in the fraud.
The present complaint is about SR. A separate complaint has been made against Fidelity. 
All parties acknowledge that the outcome of the present complaint has direct bearing on the 
complaint against Fidelity. This decision is presented in this context. Mrs C considered that 
Fidelity is more to blame than SR, but she confirmed, on 15 May 2020, that this service has 
her consent to consider both complaints and to determine merits (and any resulting liability).
What happened
 One of our investigators looked into both complaints. He concluded they should be upheld, 
on the basis that SR and Fidelity share equal responsibility for failing to apply minimum 
safeguards and processes that would more likely (than not) have prevented the fraud. In the 
main, and in his view on the present complaint, he noted as follows:
Mrs C became SRs client in 2014 and SR says she regularly made withdrawals from 
the account (including large withdrawals in 2015, 2016 and in January 2018). SR 
also says she preferred to submit her instructions through emails.
SR says it met Mrs C in September 2018, during which she shared her house 
refurbishment plans and indicated she might need to make further withdrawals from 
the account. Thereafter, a legitimate withdrawal request from her (for £5,000) was 
executed and completed on 21 November.
On 29 November SR received an email that purported to be from Mrs C, which 
instructed withdrawal of £12,480 from the account and gave notice (and details) of a 
new bank account into which the money should be paid. SR says nothing about the 
email or its contents (or style) was unfamiliar, in terms of its experiences of Mrs Cs 
email instructions. It says it was also aware that she had issues with her bank 
account a few years previously, so nomination of the new bank account was not 
alarming  and its clients commonly changed bank accounts for various reasons. 
Nevertheless, SR says it tried to follow its safeguarding procedures; that it responded 
to the email and said it would be calling Mrs C to follow-up on the instructions; but it 
received a response  also purported to be from her  which said she was attending 
a family members funeral and was not available for telephone calls.
SR says it prioritised sensitivity towards what the response said by requesting a call 
from Mrs C (to verify the bank account details) instead and by giving her the 
alternative option to email such verification. Its response included the following   
please call me now with the bank account etc. If calling is difficult (it may well be) 
then please email me regardless. 
On 3 December Fidelity contacted SR to say it had performed a check on the new 
bank account details and found a mismatch between those details and Mrs Cs 
name. SR says it told Fidelity it believed the account was genuine. It told this service 
that it said this because it had no reason to consider otherwise and that it remained 
Fidelitys responsibility to properly verify the account.
Previously, on 1 December, SR received another email that purported to be from  
Mrs C, which instructed withdrawal of £7,500 from the account and payment to the 
new bank account. It says it considered that this too was a genuine instruction from 
her. After Christmas of 2018 SR learnt that the instructions and withdrawals were 
fraudulent, resulting from Mrs Cs email account having been hacked.
The investigators detailed findings prompted comments from SR and Fidelity, which led to 
responses from him addressing those comments. 
Overall, the main concluding findings he retained (concerning both firms) were that SR acted 
in good faith, in terms of its sensitivity towards what it believed to be Mrs Cs family 
bereavement; the fraudsters emails were convincing and the withdrawals they instructed 
were not out of the ordinary for Mrs C; nevertheless, SR had a regulatory obligation to, at 
least, properly apply basic security checks at the time it received the first fraudulent email; it 
did not do that, had it done so it is more likely (than not) that the fraud could have been 
avoided; Fidelitys culpability was that it should have probed, during the call of 3 December, 
for more certain information about SRs verification of the new bank account details; Fidelity 
did not do that, had it done so it would have learnt that SR had not properly verified those 
details and it is more likely (than not) that the fraud could have been avoided at that stage; 
both firms have equal responsibility to compensate Mrs C for her loss and each firm should 
pay her £250 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
Fidelitys concluding position on the matter is that it disputes, with reasons, the finding that it 
could and should have done more to verify the first fraudulent instruction when it spoke to 
SR on 3 December; but, for reasons that arose during its investigation, it accepts 
responsibility for failing to detect and prevent the second fraudulent withdrawal; without 
prejudice to its views on the matter and for the sake of drawing it to a close, it accepts the 
investigators conclusion. Fidelity also highlighted points for this service to consider in terms 
of applying redress to the account.
SRs concluding position differs somewhat. It says there is a case to conclude that Fidelity is 
completely responsible for Mrs Cs loss, because it has already conceded responsibility for 
the second fraudulent withdrawal; that the concession is based on Fidelity speaking to Mrs C 
on 4 December to verify the second instruction, on its acceptance that it did not verify 
properly and on its acceptance that had it verified properly the fraud could have been 
detected and a hold could have been placed on the account. SR argues that Mrs Cs assets 
were liquidated on 3 December and the proceeds were remitted to the new bank account on 
6 December  both confirmed by Fidelity  so it is conceivable that, had Fidelity properly 
verified the instruction on 4 December it would have learnt from its conversation with Mrs C 
that the instructions were fraudulent and it would have had the time to prevent both of them.
In the alternative, SR says Fidelitys acceptance of full responsibility for the second 
withdrawal should be upheld by this service; then responsibility for the first withdrawal could be split equally between it and Fidelity.
The investigator was not persuaded by SRs arguments. He maintained that, primarily, the 
basic checks SR failed to apply led to the events that followed so, despite what Fidelity has 
conceded, his conclusion that overall responsibility for Mrs Cs loss should be equally shared 
between both firms is a fair one. SR asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons he expressed.
Regulatory Context
Article 40 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the RAO) defines the regulated activity of Safeguarding and Administering Investments. 
The regulators Handbook assists further by summarising the definition as follows:
 the safeguarding of assets belonging to another and the administration of those assets 
 
and
(a) the assets consist of or include any security or contractually based investment (that is, 
any designated investment (other than a P2P agreement), funeral plan contract or right to or 
interest in a funeral plan contract); or
(b) the arrangements for their safeguarding and administration are such that the assets may 
consist of or include designated investments (other than P2P agreements), and either the 
assets have at any time since 1 June 1997 done so, or the arrangements have at any time 
(whether before or after that date) been held out as ones under which designated 
investments (other than P2P agreements) would be safeguarded and administered.
Guidance, at PERG 2.7.9 G of the regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual, says 
safeguarding relates to a firms role as custodian of the customers property  such property 
including money. The safeguarding responsibility also makes the following Principles  from 
the regulators Handbook  relevant:
Principle 2  a firms duty to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  a firms duty to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  a firms duty to pay regard to the interests of its customers. 
[This being a Principle that should be read alongside the regulators Clients best 
interest rule under COBS 2.1.1 R of its Conduct of Business Sourcebook.]
Principle 10  a firms duty to arrange adequate protection for its clients assets when 
it is responsible for them. The investment assets in Mrs Cs account are covered by the definition of designated 
investments (or Specified Investments under the RAO) and, as stated above, 
safeguarding also applied to the money from liquidation of her assets. As such, SR (and 
Fidelity) had the regulated responsibility to safeguard her account. I accept that SRs 
responsibility was more remote than Fidelitys, because the former did not administer the 
account (Fidelity did) but, in real terms, it was no less a tangible responsibility because SR 
had direct access to the account (and to the assets within it), so it was obliged to safeguard 
that access. In straightforward terms, SR could not have conducted itself reasonably in this 
case without adhering to each and all the expectations, requirements and guidance above.
SR
The investigator set out the details of SRs role very well in his views and communications 
with the parties. I do not consider that I can add meaningfully to that. For the purpose of this 
decision, I summarised some of the key facts in the background section above. SR does not 
dispute that it did not conduct the telephone verification on 29 November that it knew it was 
obliged to do  and its account of events concedes that it was aware of this obligation at the 
time. 
I share the investigators observation that, in good faith, SR sought to be sensitive towards 
what it believed to be Mrs Cs bereavement circumstances. It is for this reason that it 
appears to have abandoned the telephone verification it should have conducted. Without 
wishing to dismiss or diminish SRs sincerity in this respect, it must be said that its intention 
and action were inherently misguided. 
The investigator helpfully set out relevant guidance from a number of sources  including 
Fidelity  highlighting to financial adviser firms like SR the dangers of fraud and the basic 
precautions and safeguards such firms should have in place, as a minimum. It appears that 
SR had such precautions and safeguards in place. However, it elected to forego the 
telephone verification process on 29 November. That was not in Mrs Cs best interests. Even 
if it wanted to show sensitivity to what it believed to be her bereavement circumstances, the 
fraudsters email said Mrs C was unavailable for a call because of a funeral attendance  it 
did not say she was unavailable on the following day or indefinitely thereafter. 
As such, it does not appear that SR could not have performed the telephone verification on 
30 November. In the alternative, it does not appear that SR could not have responded to the 
email with its condolences  to display its sensitivity towards the bereavement news  but, 
importantly, also with clear notice that, as matters of regulation and safeguarding, the 
telephone verification must be conducted before the withdrawal instruction could be 
actioned; and that such was the case because of the change in the nominated bank account.
The absent telephone verification was a key omission in this case. Even if SR did not 
previously apply that process because it was accustomed to receiving email instructions 
from Mrs C, the fact that new bank account details were introduced within the instruction of 
29 November meant telephone verification was essentially mandatory. SR was not 
accustomed to the new bank account, so it had no reasonable grounds to make 
assumptions about it.
As the investigator said, SRs failure to apply the basic security check  the telephone 
verification  is the root cause of the fraud against Mrs Cs account being undetected at the 
outset. On balance, I am satisfied that had it conducted that verification the fraud would have 
been detected before it caused any damage, because SR would have spoken to Mrs C and 
she would have confirmed that the instruction did not come from her. This means, SR cannot 
reasonably distance itself from everything that followed. I understand SRs arguments about an end-point to any finding of liability we make and 
about that end-point existing where Fidelity accepts responsibility for the second fraudulent 
withdrawal. However, I am not persuaded by its arguments. The chain of causation  that 
began with SR  might have been broken if Fidelity identified that the second instruction was 
fraudulent and then, through its negligence, allowed it to be executed. It could then have 
been argued that such events created a new chain that began with Fidelity. That was not the 
case. Fidelity did not identify the second instruction as fraudulent. As I address below, 
Fidelity appears to have made its own error in not properly verifying the instruction in the 
course of its telephone conversation with Mrs C and that had the effect of compounding SRs 
initial failure. Both firms missed their respective opportunities, in the same overall withdrawal 
process, to identify the fraud.
Fidelity 
Ordinarily, a decision would rarely make findings of liability (or otherwise) about a third-party 
firm. However, the context for this decision is as I stated at the outset  hence my brief 
finding below about Fidelitys responsibility.
Aside from its failure to properly verify the second fraudulent instruction  which Fidelity 
accepts  I agree with the investigators finding that it should have probed further into the 
details of SRs verification process when both firms had their telephone conversation on 3 
December. I am mindful of key and relevant corrections to the facts of this conversation that 
Fidelity highlighted to us after the investigators first view. The same applies to its points 
about relevant information known to SR that was not shared during the call. 
Nevertheless, and on balance, I consider that the feedback SR gave during the conversation 
was somewhat vague and ought reasonably to have prompted Fidelity to probe further  for 
example, in order to determine if the first instruction had been verified with Mrs C by 
telephone and when that was done and if the new bank account had been verified with her 
by telephone and when that was done. I appreciate that this was Fidelitys overall line of 
enquiry during the call, but I consider that it concluded the call without firm, credible and 
reasonably detailed responses from SR. That was perhaps because SR had not conducted 
the requisite telephone verification(s). Had Fidelity probed further it either would have learnt 
this or it ought reasonably to have concluded that it could not rely on the instruction(s) 
having been verified  in either case action would probably have been taken to suspend the 
instruction(s) until Mrs C was spoken to and that would probably have focused Fidelitys 
enquiries when it spoke to her.
Conclusion
Having made the findings further above about SRs overall responsibility, I also find that 
Fidelity shares that responsibility on broadly equal terms. I have reached this conclusion for 
the reasons given above. Whilst I acknowledge that Fidelity has made submissions which 
stand in dispute with this conclusion, I also acknowledge Fidelitys readiness to settle the 
matter on the basis of the investigators finding  and now, also my finding  of equal share 
liability; and I commend its decision to do so for the sake of drawing a conclusion to the 
matter for Mrs C. 
I note that SR has echoed a similar sentiment  that is, a desire to resolve the matter for Mrs 
Cs sake  and I commend SR too for this, whilst also acknowledging that it too has made 
submissions which stand in dispute with the above conclusion. 
Overall, Mrs C has unfortunately been the victim in this matter and her financial loss should 
and could have been avoided by both firms, so she deserves redress (from both firms).Putting things right
 fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mrs C back into the position she would be in had the 
fraudulent withdrawals not happened. Initially, the investigator proposed a return to Mrs C of 
her total loss plus interest/returns the amount would have earned had the money not been 
fraudulently withdrawn. Fidelity then enquired, and proposed, as follows:
The withdrawal of £12,480 was made from [Mrs Cs] ISA and the withdrawal of £7,500 was 
made from her general investment account (GIA; the assets under this account were not 
held in a tax wrapper). Ordinarily, I would expect it likely that an investor would want to see 
their assets reinstated, particularly where an ISA is concerned but that may also be the case 
with assets held outside of a tax wrapper.
To restore [Mrs Cs] accounts to the position they would have been in now, had it not been 
for the fraudulent withdrawals, we would be willing to arrange deal corrections for each of the 
assets that were sold, restoring 50% of the units in each fund to the position held at the time 
sold. (The IFA might be willing to cover the cost of restoring the remaining 50% of the units.)
The cost of making these adjustments could be less or more than 50% of the figures of 
£12,480 and £7,500 plus interest. The costs would only be known to us once the deal 
corrections have actually been arranged. We would write to [Mrs C] after making the 
corrections, to confirm the adjustments made.
Bearing this in mind, please confirm - do you still wish us to pay [Mrs C] 50% of her losses, 
along with interest? If yes, please confirm a) the rate of interest we should adopt and b) 
whether it would be acceptable to calculate this from the date that each withdrawal was 
made up until the date we carry out the calculation.
Please note that in the event FOS require the IFA to carry out deal corrections, either at this 
stage or at Final Decision, we will require an agreement from the IFA that they will reimburse 
Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) with 50% of the cost of the deal corrections 
for all assets sold, to fund both of the relevant withdrawals. As I touched upon above, the 
cost of deal corrections will not be known until the adjustments have been completed, due to 
the fluctuating nature of the assets held.
I consider Fidelitys proposal of deal corrections, as set out above, to be sensible. The 
investigator took the same view, he conveyed that to Mrs C and, on 3 March 2021, he 
received confirmation from her accepting redress on the basis of the deal corrections 
proposal. The outcome of the complaint against Fidelity should reflect this. In terms of the 
present complaint, I order SR to do as follows:
Give an express and written undertaking to Mrs C that it will cover 50% of the costs 
of Fidelitys deal corrections exercise (related to her ISA and GIA), for the purpose of 
redressing her financial loss from the fraudulent withdrawals. This undertaking must 
be given within 28 days of SR receiving notice of Mrs Cs acceptance of this decision. 
If SR does not give the undertaking during this period it must, separately, pay Mrs C 
interest, at the rate of 8% simple per year, on the value of its 50% liability over her 
financial loss, from the date of this decision up to the date on which it gives her the 
undertaking  this is to compensate Mrs C for any delay caused by SR in producing 
the undertaking.Upon receiving confirmation from Mrs C that Fidelitys deal corrections exercise has 
been successfully concluded SR must engage directly with Fidelity to uphold its 
undertaking to Mrs C and to cover 50% of the costs of the exercise. 
[The outcome of the complaint against Fidelity should make provisions to ensure 
Fidelity shares the details of the deal corrections exercise with SR in order to inform 
SR of the basis for its 50% liability.]
SR must pay Mrs C £250 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
To aid prompt resolution of redress and Fidelitys deal corrections exercise, Mrs C should 
share SRs undertaking with Fidelity as soon as she can after she receives it. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint, I find that SR Investment 
Associates Ltd is responsible for 50% of her financial loss, I order SR Investment Associates 
Ltd to undertake this responsibility as set out above and I order SR Investment Associates 
Ltd to pay Mrs C £250 for the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman