DRN-2946217
The complaint
 Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to the advice he was given, and 
the way in which his personal loan and overdraft were handled.
What happened
 In August 2019 Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties and he contacted HSBC to ask 
for help. The advisor took details of his income and expenditure and discussed methods of 
reducing Mr Bs overdraft. A covering limit plan was discussed but not available as Mr B 
wasnt able to repay his overdraft within 12 months. The advisor then offered a 3 month 
affordability plan which entailed Mr B paying £200 per month towards his overdrawn 
balance and the overdraft limit being removed. This negatively affected his credit file. Mr B 
was also advised to open a basic bank account and transfer over his direct debits (DD)
which he did in September.
Mr B says he then received conflicting information from HSBC advisors about when and 
what to pay. He says he was told variously that there was a three-month repayment holiday 
and also to make an immediate payment.
HSBC explained to Mr B that it had recommended the wrong plan. HSBC also accepted that 
the financial difficulty Mr B was experiencing was short term only, resulting from an 
unfortunate car accident hed had, and that it could have been possible to agree a shorter-
term plan so that his overdraft facility wasnt removed, and his credit file wasnt affected.
HSBC therefore agreed to remove the arrears data from Mr Bs credit file from August 2019 
in relation to his bank account, and also because the DD for Mr Bs personal loan had been 
suspended as part of the affordability plan, it also agreed to remove the arrears data for the 
loan. In recognition of its error, HSBC offered Mr B £300 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation HSBC offered was enough to put things right. Mr 
B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Many of the facts to this complaint are agreed by HSBC and Mr B, so my summary of what 
happened has been brief although I know the parties went into a lot more detail. My focus is 
on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the nature of 
our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In relation to Mr Bs complaint that he was told he was given a three-month payment holiday 
regarding his loan, this is disputed by HSBC. Mr B first raised this particular issue in 2019 
and HSBC issued a final response letter to him on 14 December 2019 and in that letter it 
gave him notice of his rights to bring a complaint to us. Mr B therefore had until 14 June 
2020 to refer his complaint to us, but he didnt contact us until the 14 September 2020, so he 
is out of time. If a business doesnt consent, and here HSBC doesnt, then Im not allowed to 
consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six months after the date the final 
response letter is sent. So, this is an element of his complaint I cannot look into.
When I issued my provisional decision, I invited further comment and I received a reply from 
HSBC to say it had nothing further to add. Mr B contacted this service to say he thought that 
part of his complaint seemed to be missing. He said this related to HSBC closing his original 
account and all his direct debits bouncing. My understanding of this element of his complaint 
is that it also relates to the issues he raised in 2019 and which HSBC issued its final 
response of 14 December 2019 and so again it is not something I can look into. If I am 
wrong about that, although I dont think I am, then as it was not part of this complaint put to 
HSBC and as they have not yet had the opportunity to comment on it, Mr B should make a 
new complaint to them to allow them to do so.
When Mr B first contacted HSBC he explained hed had some unexpected expenses 
following a car accident meaning he needed some financial help. He did however say that he 
would still be able to afford to make his loan repayments. HSBC have accepted that it didnt 
get things right on this call and that it should have offered a more temporary solution as an 
alternative to the affordability plan.
In relation to HSBC giving Mr B the wrong advice about the affordability loan, as I have 
said, HSBC has accepted that it didnt get things right and of course it didnt. Because of that 
HSBC has offered Mr B £300.
Mr B has described the impact this has had upon his health and I am very sorry to hear 
about that. I can appreciate that this would have been a very stressful time for Mr B. But 
when I look at what HSBC have done to try to resolve matters I think that it is important to 
note that all the adverse information that had been added to his credit file has now been 
removed and so in that respect he has been put back into the position he would have been.
Putting things right
 So, the issue boils down to what the right level of compensation might be, and I know Mr B 
has described HSBCs offer as a joke. When this service considers levels of compensation 
we take into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience that may have been caused. The awards we make can be categorised within 
the brackets of modest, substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of these can be found 
on our website. There is no set figure or table of awards I can turn to, and given that each 
case is different, it is ultimately an exercise of judgement in looking at all the circumstances
of the case and deciding what feels fair and reasonable when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failure.
So, Ive then gone on to think about the effect this had on Mr B which includes the fact that 
he had to take paperwork to the branch and received a lot of debt collection letters, calls and 
texts. Ive also considered the time and effort Mr B has taken to bring his complaint not only 
to HSBC but also to this service. Having done so Im satisfied that the offer of £300 is fair and reasonable and my final decision is that I dont think HSBC should be required to do 
anything further.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already offered Mr B £300 to settle this complaint, and I think that is 
fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman