DRN-3113266
The complaint
Ms R complains that she hasnt received refund cheques that were sent to her by Motability 
Operations Limited relating to her hire agreements.
What happened
Cars were supplied to Ms R under a number of hire agreement with Motability Operations 
and it sent her five cheques for refunds of advance payments between April 2008 and June 
2015  all of which were cashed. Ms R contacted Motability Operations in March 2021 
because she says that shed become aware that she may have been due refunds of 
advance payments under her hire agreements. It said that cheques had been sent to her 
and cashed.
She complained to Motability Operations in June 2021 and it was able to provide the 
address to which the last two cheques had been sent but was unable to provide the 
addresses to which the earlier cheques had been sent. Due to the age of the cheques it was 
unable to provide Ms R with details of the banks where the cheques were cashed and said 
that it hoped that the information that it had provided would assist her with police and bank 
fraud investigations. Ms R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was likely that the cheques were correctly sent by Motability Operations to Ms R, in her 
name, to the registered address  and he didnt think that it would be fair to hold it liable for 
what may have occurred or how the cheques were cashed. 
Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Motability Operations has provided information about the five cheques that were sent 
to Ms R between April 2008 and June 2015  it says that they were addressed and 
made payable to her, would have been sent to her using the address that it had for 
her at that time and all of the cheques were cashed;
it has been able to provide the address to which the last two cheques were sent but 
says that, for data protection reasons, it only keeps customer information for seven 
years so doesnt have a record of the addresses to which the other three cheques 
were sent;
it says that, due to the age of the cheques, its unable to provide Ms R with details of 
the banks where the cheques were cashed as banks are only required to provide that 
information for a period of six years but said that it hoped that the information that it 
had provided assisted Ms R with police and bank fraud investigations;
Ms R has provided her bank statement for 2008 to 2015 which shows that none of 
the five cheques were paid into that account  but Motability Operations says that the 
cheques were cashed (and they could have been paid into another account);
I sympathise with Ms R for the disappointment and frustration that she feels in these 
circumstances but I consider it to be more likely than not that the cheques were 
correctly sent to Ms R, theyve been cashed and Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that Motability Operations has acted incorrectly;
I consider that Motability Operations has properly investigated Ms Rs complaint and 
given the time that has passed since the events that shes complained about, I dont 
consider it to be unreasonable that it hasnt been able to provide her with more 
information about what happened; and 
 I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Motability Operations to 
re-issue the cheques to Ms R, to pay her any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman