DRN-4263930
The complaint
Mr D complains about Tymit Ltd unfairly closing his credit card account without explanation.
What happened
Mr D held a Tymit credit card and, in April 2023, Tymit advised him that they had made a 
decision to suspend and then close his account. Tymit said their decision followed an 
internal review in line with their commitment to being a responsible lender. 
Mr D says he was shocked by this decision as he had never missed a payment.
Tymit said their decision was final and explained that they were unable to provide Mr D with 
the exact reason for the closure or details of their lending policy. They added that they 
regularly review information provided by a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) together with 
account management information. 
Mr D complained to our service as he wants Tymit to explain their action and re-open his 
account. Mr D says he is retired and in poor health and he feels Tymits closure decision has 
caused him considerable stress. Also, it has curtailed his holiday plans. 
Mr D believes Tymits decision is unfair and a breach of contract as they didnt give the 
required two-month notice period. Also, he doesnt understand what has changed since 
Tymits original lending decision and has highlighted credit limit increase offers he received 
from other lenders at the same time as Tymits closure decision.
Our investigator couldnt see that Tymit had done anything wrong.
As Mr D remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr D and Ill explain how Ive come to this decision.
I should point out that our service isnt the regulator of banks policies and procedures, and 
banks are entitled to make commercial decisions. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. However, when doing so, it must comply with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
So, I looked closely at the Credit Terms and Conditions that Mr D agreed to. As pointed out 
by Mr D the following, in Condition 10 - CLOSING YOUR ACCOUNT, does support a two-
month notice period:
We may close your Account by providing at least two months' written notice without any 
explanation.
However, the same section subsequently refers to suspension action and says:
We may cancel or suspend your use of your Account in accordance with Condition 16
And in Section 16 - OUR RIGHT TO LIMIT THE USE OF YOUR ACCOUNT Tymit say they 
may:
cancel or suspend your right to use your Card and Account at any time, either temporarily or 
permanently, where we have a good reason for doing so.
So, Im satisfied that condition 16, which follows condition 10, does apply here, and Tymit set 
out some examples of where they wouldnt give notice, such as:
The security of your Card or Account has been compromised;
Your Account has become a Dormant Account;
There has been suspected or actual unauthorised or fraudulent use of your Card and 
the Account
You will not repay us
Although Im unable to share any information from Tymits confidential and commercially 
sensitive internal review, from reviewing this, Im satisfied that Tymit action is reasonable, 
and they havent breached the accounts terms and conditions.
I can appreciate Mr Ds frustration and annoyance here, as Tymit wont share the reason for 
their suspension and closure action. Also, Mr Ds other banks may have a different risk 
appetite and lending policy and credit limit increase offers, often dependent on CRA checks, 
are not guaranteed.
I also understand Mr D questioning Tymits original lending decision, however I havent seen 
anything here to connect Tymit decision here with their original lending decision. Tymits 
suspension and closure decision was based on a subsequent review and, although theyre 
unable to share this with Mr D because of the commercial sensitivity, Im satisfied their 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ds frustration at the lack of a detailed explanation, Tymit doesnt have 
to give a reason for closing his account. So, I cant say Tymit have done anything wrong by 
not giving Mr D information about their review. And Mr D may wish to make enquiries with 
CRAs.
So, having considered all of the above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman