DRN-3513436
The complaint
Ms M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to help when she lost 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In March 2021 Ms M made three payments on her NatWest Visa debit card towards what 
she believed at the time to be a genuine investment with a firm Ill refer to as P. The 
payments totalled around £2,350. Ms M says she later did further research and discovered P 
werent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as theyd claimed. She also saw 
negative reviews online and concluded shed been the victim of a scam. 
Following advice from the FCA, Ms M tried to withdraw her remaining funds and later asked 
NatWest to help her get her money back. NatWest said they were unable to assist through 
the chargeback scheme. They said that Ms Ms payments had gone to payment processors 
who would only be responsible for loading her funds onto a wallet. And if that hadnt 
happened, Ms M should provide screenshot evidence of the same. 
Ms M referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators ultimately didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have evidenced that the first debit card payment was stopped, and that Ms M 
confirmed this to be genuine via their automated system. I think this was a proportionate 
response to the risk that transaction presented. I dont think NatWest ought to have done 
more. Im satisfied that P were operating a scam. But at the times of Ms Ms payments there 
were no published warnings on either the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) portal or on the FCA website. And even if there had been, P isnt 
what the payments appeared as on Ms Ms statements, so I dont think NatWest reasonably 
could have been aware of a problem in any case. 
Overall, I dont think NatWest ought to have done more than they did before processing any 
of the three debit card payments relevant to this complaint. 
Recovery
The only available option for the recovery of the debit card payments would be the 
chargeback process. NatWest are bound by the scheme providers rules which in this case 
is Visa. So what I must decide is whether NatWests decision to not pursue chargebacks 
was fair and reasonable. And if it wasnt whether this resulted in a loss to Ms M. 
There is no right to a chargeback, but I generally consider it to be good practice that one is 
raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. The Visa rules dont include provision 
for simply being the victim of a scam. So the only potential possible way a chargeback might 
be successful is if Ms Ms funds were never credited to the investment platform. Or if Ms M 
had attempted to withdraw available funds and had been unable to do so. 
I appreciate the evidence Ms M can gather is now severely limited by the fact that she no 
longer has access to Ps website or platform. But I cant see that she has evidence of her 
payments not crediting her platform with P. So I dont think there was a valid chargeback for 
her in that regard.
In terms of a withdrawal, Ms M would have needed to have provided dated evidence of a 
withdrawal request along with evidence of an available balance equal or greater than the 
amount requested on the same date. 
I acknowledge that Ms M has provided a screenshot of her account with P. This is dated on 
7 April 2021 and shows a balance at that point of €375. The same screenshot also shows 
that there is a pending withdrawal for £250 that was dated as 25 March 2021. But the Visa 
rules are very strict and they require that Ms M had a:
Copy of the Cardholders investment account showing the date, withdrawal amount, and 
available balance at the time the withdrawal request was made. (My emphasis added).
Ms M didnt have this as there isnt evidence of her balance on 25 March 2021 when the 
withdrawal request was made. And as Ms M didnt have the required evidence, I dont think 
NatWests decision to not pursue a chargeback was unfair or unreasonable (even if they 
reached this conclusion for different reasons).
For clarity, even if Ms M did have the required evidence, the chargeback could only have 
been for the withdrawal amount requested (£250), not the total of her card payments to P. 
NatWest also made a valid point that it was unclear whether Ms Ms payments went directly 
to P or through a cryptocurrency exchange or payment processor. If that were the case a 
chargeback against P might not have been possible in any case. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, this doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even giving Ms M 
the benefit of any doubt in this regard and assuming the payment went directly to P, the 
required evidence still wasnt presented.  
Im sorry to hear Ms M lost her money as the result of a scam, but as I dont think NatWest 
are responsible for her outstanding loss (or a part of it), Im not intending to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
NatWest responded and said they had nothing further to add. Ms M responded with some 
further points which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says that her funds were never credited to an investment account as the whole thing 
was fake and a scam. I can understand the point Ms M is making here, but the crux of this 
argument is that P were operating a scam. And that isnt something the chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. So I dont agree that there was any reasonable 
prospect of a successful chargeback based on funds not having credited her account.
Ms M also says she believes she met the criteria for successful chargeback based on her 
withdrawal request being denied. Again, I dont agree this is the case. Whilst the 
screenshots shes shared show a pending withdrawal, this doesnt meet the strict 
requirements of the Visa rules as there isnt evidence of an available balance on the date the 
withdrawal request was made. I accept that Ms M was the victim of a scam, but I dont agree 
that NatWest not pursuing a chargeback was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Ms M has also questioned why my decision didnt reference two £1,000 payments that she 
believes havent been investigated. This isnt the case, the loss of around £2,350 that Ive 
referred to above relates to two card payments of £1067.27 on 4 March 2021 and a single 
card payment of £224.24 on 5 March 2021. My point in the chargeback section was that 
even if Ms M did have the required evidence, she would only be entitled (under the 
chargeback scheme) to the withdrawal amount shed requested up to the available balance. 
A chargeback in those circumstances wouldnt extend to all the payments Ms M had made. 
Having considered all Ms M has said, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome 
explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman