DRN-3729367
The complaint
Mr S complained about the service received by Vanguard Asset Management ltd 
(Vanguard). He said it was responsible for a delay in transferring a Junior ISA (JISA) to its 
platform, that resulted in him cancelling the request and causing him investment losses. 
What happened
Mr S has made a complaint about a request he made to transfer a JISA to Vanguard from 
another provider in February 2021. Mr S made the request on 16 February 2021 by signing a 
page on the transfer form and sending it in to Vanguard. It received this page on 22 
February 2021.
Vanguard said it sent a letter on 19 March 2021, requesting all four pages of its transfer 
request form and not just one page with a signature on it. Mr S told our service that he did 
not receive this letter. 
Mr S then requested an update on the transfer on 15 May 2021. Vanguard responded on 18 
May 2021 and said it needed all four pages returned and not just one, to process the 
transfer. Mr S replied on 19 May 2021, raised a complaint about the delay to his request and 
then asked to cancel the transfer going forward. 
Mr S transferred the JISA to another service provider on 11 June 2021. He said in his 
complaint to Vanguard that its delay had caused him to miss out on investing in the market 
and that it should compensate him for his investment losses.
Vanguard didnt agree with Mr S and said in response that it sent a letter on 19 March 2021, 
requesting all 4 pages of the transfer form but this wasnt received. It says that there was a 
delay of 19 business days from the initial request on 16 February 2021 and the date it says it 
sent a letter on 19 March 2021. It said this wasnt a reasonable amount of time, so it offered 
to make a goodwill payment to Mr S for £50. It has since increased this offer to £100. 
Mr S did not agree to these payments and reiterated that he did not receive a letter or any 
correspondence from Vanguard on 19 March 2021 requesting the remaining pages of the 
transfer form. Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator from our service looked at Mr Ss complaint. She sent her view to both 
parties and upheld it. She made the following findings:
That it was not unreasonable of Mr S to only submit the form with his signature on it. 
She made the point that there was nothing to say that he needed to submit all four 
pages. 
 It was reasonable for Vanguard to be expected to have carried out the transfer within 
30 calendar days of his request. Following this Vanguard should look to put Mr S 
back in the position he would have been in if it had done this.
That Vanguard should look at what Mr S would have gone on to invest in and work 
out what his investment losses would have been, if any, if he had invested in the 
same funds on the date the transfer reasonably should have taken place.
She also concluded that the £100 offer that Vanguard had made for the distress and 
inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Vanguard responded and said there was a pending investment request on the transfer and 
that the fund Mr S chose here, would have been his likely investment, if the transfer had 
gone ahead. It agreed to pay compensation for investment losses regarding this investment, 
up to the date the JISA was transferred to a third party.
Mr S responded through our service, to Vanguards comments and agreed that the fund that 
he had chosen would have been the likely investment that he would have made. He said at 
this point though that his complaint had taken a considerable amount of time and that he 
would like our service to look at the distress and inconvenience payment again and consider 
whether this is still a reasonable amount of compensation. He also said the offer from 
Vanguard regarding investment loss, should be rolled up to the date of settlement, rather 
than the date he transferred his sons JISA to another provider. He said he also would like a 
final decision from an ombudsman. 
As the parties have not reached an agreement informally, Mr Ss complaint has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanguard has agreed that it caused a delay in dealing with Mr Ss transfer request and that it 
should compensate him for any potential investment losses. It has also made an offer of 
£100 as a goodwill payment for distress and inconvenience. So as Vanguard has said it 
caused a delay, I dont need make any findings about how the delay happened. 
Both parties are also in agreement regarding how Vanguard can put things right for any 
investment losses Mr S may have incurred.
Vanguard has agreed to pay compensation for the delay it caused from 23 March 2021. This 
date has been arrived at as it received a transfer request from Mr S on 22 February 2021 
and HMRC guidance states that any cash ISA transfer should take within 30 calendar days 
from a business receiving a request. 
Vanguard has then agreed to pay Mr Ss potential investment losses up to 11 June 2021. 
This is the date Mr Ss JISA transferred over to another service provider, and he was able to 
reinvest again. 
Initially, our investigator recommended Vanguard look at the funds Mr S went on to invest in 
with the new service providers ISA. But Vanguard said Mr S had put in an instruction to 
invest the funds received from his JISA into a life strategy 80% equity fund, within the 
stocks and shares ISA he was looking to transfer the funds to. 
Both parties have now agreed that this is most likely the fund that Mr S would have invested 
in, had the transfer been carried out in good time. But they are not in agreement about how 
redress should be paid. Mr S says the amount paid to him should be taken up to the point of 
settlement as his complaint has taken a long time to resolve and not the date that the transfer was eventually made to another provider. But I think that wouldnt be fair in the 
circumstances. This is because I dont think Vanguard should be responsible for any further 
losses once the JISA transferred to another provider and Mr S was able to make 
investments again. 
The final issue that is left for me to consider and resolve is whether Vanguards offer for 
distress and inconvenience is a fair one. Vanguard initially offered Mr S £50 as a goodwill 
payment and then increased this to £100. 
Mr S has recently asked our service to look again at this payment and to take into 
consideration the amount of time and inconvenience the complaint has caused him, caused 
he says, by Vanguards shortcomings.
Vanguard has offered to pay £100 that it says is a goodwill payment. It says this is because 
the time it took to respond to Mr Ss transfer request was unreasonable. I can see how this 
would cause Mr S some distress and inconvenience, so think its offer is a fairly compensates 
him.  
Mr S has said that due to the amount of time taken to resolve his complaint, that the amount 
Vanguard should pay for distress and inconvenience should be looked at. I acknowledge 
what Mr S has said here, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Vanguard to make any 
additional payment here, for the amount of time it has taken to find a resolution between the 
parties.  
In conclusion, Vanguard has agreed that it was wrong to delay the transfer of Mr Ss JISA. 
And so, it has agreed there was a shortcoming that it was responsible for here. It has agreed 
to put things right by paying Mr Ss investment losses and has offered to pay a £100 
payment for distress and inconvenience. I think what it has agreed to do and what it has 
offered is fair.   
Putting things right
Vanguard has made an offer to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay it took in processing Mr Ss request for a JISA transfer.
Vanguard has also agreed to pay for investment losses caused by the delay. It should do the 
following: 
Calculate the number of units Mr S wouldve received if hed invested in the life 
strategy 80% equity fund on 23 March 2021 and compare this with the number of 
units he wouldve received if he invested in 11 June 2021. If the number of units he 
wouldve received on 23 March 2021 is greater Vanguard should pay him the cash 
equivalent amount.
My final decision
Vanguard Asset Management Ltd has made an offer to settle Mr Ss complaint as I have 
described above. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, my decision is that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd should pay compensation as I 
have described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman