DRN-1984274
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
under his home insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr I made a claim to AA after a hot water leak in his kitchen. He said hot water 
had been left running for about ten hours. Water had spread throughout the ground floor of 
his property.
AA accepted the claim which was managed by its claims management company. Nine days 
later it sent a disaster recovery firm to the property. The firm installed a blow out humidifier.
Later the firm partially removed some of the damp fittings. Mr I said it refused to remove all 
of the flooring in his living room, hall, downstairs cloakroom and utility room or any of the 
contents. Mr I says as a result mould developed in the property due to unusually hot and 
humid weather. He thinks the dehumidifier then spread mould spores around his home. He 
says that in turn caused him to suffer from breathing difficulties.
When AAs disaster recovery firm returned to the property to confirm it had dried out, Mr I 
says he was told the mould contamination had been chemically treated on a previous visit. 
Mr I thinks thats untrue. The firm agreed to do it again and sprayed some chemicals around 
the property.
Mr I told AA hed found more mould under floor coverings. He says it agreed to send the 
disaster recovery firm back out but an appointment wasnt arranged. He has since had new 
floor coverings put down.
AA instructed a surveyor and a timber expert to inspect the property. They didnt find any 
evidence of mould. 
Mr I brought his complaint to this service. He also complained that AA should have covered 
as part of his claim internal doors which had twisted and split and various items including a 
three piece suite that had suffered water damage.
Our investigator was satisfied that AA had handled the mould issue adequately. She didnt 
think AA should have provided alternative accommodation. But she thought it shouldnt have 
taken nine days to send someone to the property to assess the claim. She recommended 
that AA pay Mr I £200 compensation for that.
As Mr I didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I raised concerns over the way his home was dried and the work carried out by AAs 
disaster recovery firm. I can see that following this AA arranged for the firms project 
manager to visit the property on 9 August 2018. He reported that there was a very small 
amount of mould in Mr Is utility room which he didnt think was a health risk and which he 
treated. After testing, he said there were no signs of dampness. Mr I appeared happy with 
the findings and signed a form stating that the insurance works had been carried out to his 
complete satisfaction. 
I know Mr I thinks the disaster recovery firm lied to him when it said it had treated mould on 
its previous visit. The firms project manager said it had treated it. I havent seen any 
evidence to support Mr Is claim. So I cant make a finding on this. 
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight Mr I feels that the procedure AA followed to dry 
the property out was flawed. He thinks as a result mould spread throughout his property. 
After hed complained to AA about this, AA arranged for a chartered surveyor to inspect the 
property. The inspection was carried out in January 2019. The surveyor said that according 
to Mr and Mrs I there were no signs of mould at that time. Since the surveyor wasnt an 
expert on the subject of mould, AA also instructed a timber expert to carry out an inspection. 
That expert said he couldnt see any mould growth either. 
Its not clear to me at what point AA may have agreed to send the disaster recovery firm 
back to Mr Is home to check whether there was any more mould. And I can understand Mr I 
being disappointed if a visit was promised but not arranged. But overall I think AA treated 
him fairly in arranging for the inspections by the independent surveyor and timber expert. In 
the light of their negative findings I dont think it needed to do any more.
Although I know Mr I has reservations about the way his home was dried, from what Ive 
seen there was only a very small amount of mould in August 2018 and by January 2019 
none could be found. The property was also completely dry. So Im not persuaded AA failed 
to ensure that the work was carried out in a safe and reasonable manner other than that it 
shouldnt have taken nine days for the disaster recovery firm to make its first visit to Mr Is 
property. 
Mr I's policy covers the cost of alternative accommodation if his property couldn't be lived in 
due to the insured damage. He said he and his wife lived in mouldy conditions for over two 
months because AA didnt provide this. Ive seen a letter from Mr Is doctor confirming that 
he was prescribed medication for breathing difficulties in August 2018. Mr I has also 
provided general evidence of the effect that living in mouldy conditions has on peoples 
health. 
But, as noted above, in August 2018 there was only a very small amount of mould in Mr Is 
property following the water leak. Unfortunately for Mr I, I havent seen any expert evidence 
to show that his home was actually unfit to live in due to mould contamination. So Im not 
persuaded that AA treated him unfairly in not offering him alternative accommodation.
Mr I accepted a cash settlement from the AA to carry out the reinstatement works to his 
property and made a separate claim for contents which was also settled. If Mr I thinks 
other items should have been included in the settlement, he should raise that with AA in 
the first instance and then make a formal complaint if he hasnt already done so. 
Putting things right
I think the initial delay on the part of the disaster recovery firm in visiting Mr Is property 
caused unnecessary inconvenience and distress to him after hed had a major water leak. 
Taking into account the trouble and upset caused I think the sum of £200 is appropriate in the circumstances to compensate Mr I for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr I £200 for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman