DRN-4083713
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed the transfer of one of 
the two pension plans he held with Aviva, to the other pension plan he held with it. He said 
this led to a financial loss. 
Aviva upheld the complaint in its 21 June 2021 final response letter. But has yet to carry out 
the loss assessment calculations.
What happened
Mr A has told this service that he has health issues which have made it difficult for him to 
keep track of Avivas mistakes over the transfer of one of his Aviva pensions (which Ill refer 
to as pension P) to the other (which Ill refer to as pension G).
Mr A had two pension plans with Aviva. When pension P was coming up to maturity in early 
2021, Mr A wanted to transfer it to pension G. But he said that Aviva kept making the 
mistake of sending transfer forms from pension G to pension P rather than the other way 
around. He said he kept having to correct Aviva. 
Mr A said during the time the transfer was delayed, pension P didnt perform well. But 
pension G had risen considerably. 
Unhappy about the delays, Mr A complained to Aviva on 4 March 2021. He said it had been 
frustrating and difficult to get the Transfer forms he needed. He said he wanted his transfer 
to complete. 
Aviva issued its first final response letter to the complaint on 21 June 2021. It acknowledged 
its service had fallen short, apologised to Mr A, and offered £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the delays had caused him. It also said it would investigate whether Mr A had 
suffered a financial loss due to the delay. 
Having not heard from Aviva, Mr A complained again on 13 December 2021. He included his 
own loss calculations, based on the performance in pension G. 
Aviva issued its second final response letter the following day. It apologised for not updating 
Mr A about the pending loss assessment on his plan. But said it couldnt give him a 
timeframe for that assessment. It said it would be in touch in due course. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. 
Aviva told this service that it hadnt yet completed the loss calculations. But it had chased the 
team responsible.
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint on 18 August 2022. He felt the complaint 
should be upheld. He didnt think it was reasonable for Aviva to say in June 2021 that it 
would carry out loss calculations, and for these to still be outstanding now. He felt that Aviva 
should complete the loss calculations within the four weeks of his view. He also felt that 
Aviva should pay Mr A an additional £150 for the ongoing distress and inconvenience the 
prolonged uncertainty was causing him. 
Aviva didnt initially respond to our investigators view. But once the complaint had been 
referred for an Ombudsman review, it said it didnt agree with our investigator. It said it was 
chasing up the loss assessment and hoped to have an answer soon. And that it didnt 
provide a timescale for loss assessments because it had to rely on information from an 
external source. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator that a further £150 compensation payment for 
distress and inconvenience was fair. And asked us to reconsider it. It felt that the loss 
assessment would ensure that Mr A wasnt financially disadvantaged.
Our investigator acknowledged Avivas reason for not providing a timescale for loss 
assessments. But felt the additional £150 compensation hed recommended was fair under 
the circumstances. He said that until a loss assessment was completed for Mr A, his 
complaint remained unresolved. He said that Mr A had told this service that he continued to 
be concerned about the value of his pension, which had continued to fall significantly. And 
that without knowing when his complaint might be resolved, he continued to suffer distress 
and inconvenience. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
On 24 February 2023 this service asked Aviva whether it had yet completed its loss 
calculations. And if it hadnt if it had a timeframe for doing so. But it didnt reply.
I issued my first provisional decision on the complaint on 7 March 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the continued delay in 
producing the loss calculations has caused additional distress to Mr A. And based on the 
information available to me, I consider that the transfer shouldve completed by 1 March 
2021. Ill explain my decision. 
Ive based my provisional decision on the information Ive been given. But my final decision 
may be different if Aviva or Mr A provide further information.
Aviva hasnt fully engaged with this service on this complaint. I say this because it didnt 
respond to our investigators requests in August 2022 for it to confirm if the loss assessment 
had been done, and what date itd used for the transfer in that loss assessment. Nor did 
Aviva respond to my recent request along similar lines.
Its not in dispute that Aviva is responsible for Mr As financial losses due to it delaying his 
transfer request. However, although Mr A has suggested what he feels is a fair date by 
which the transfer shouldve completed, Ive made my own assessment of when that 
shouldve happened, based on the information available to me.
When should the transfer have completed?
Mr A suggested that a fair date for the loss calculations was 22 February 2021. So our 
investigator also asked Aviva to confirm, if it had used a different date in its loss assessment, 
why that date had been used. He also asked for any additional evidence or supporting 
statements for that date. Our investigator told Aviva that he didnt have enough information 
currently on file to say when the transfer shouldve been done. Mr A told this service that he was sent the wrong forms on multiple occasions and when he 
did get the correct forms, he returned them the same day.
As Aviva hasnt provided any further information, I have to assume that the loss assessment 
hasnt yet gone ahead. And I agree with our investigator that we dont yet have enough 
information to be able to accurately assess when the transfer shouldve been done. But Ive 
considered when I thought Mr As transfer shouldve gone ahead, but for the delays Aviva 
caused. I did this by constructing a timeline of events based on the evidence Ive seen:
21 September 2020: Aviva wrote to Mr A about his upcoming retirement date, which it said 
was early the following year. 
6 January 2021: Mr A called Aviva to discuss drawdown. Avivas call logs said he said he 
wanted to transfer £67,344.05.
11 January 2021: Aviva wrote to Mr A about his recent query. It included a current unit 
statement as at the date of the letter. It gave Mr A a current Transfer Value (TV) of 
£67,367.91, which included a final bonus of £20,888.79. It said neither the TV nor the final 
bonus was guaranteed.
18 January 2021: Aviva wrote to Mr A about his prospective retirement benefits. 
1 February 2021: Mr A wrote to Aviva to tell it he wanted to take his pension as drawdown. 
He said he knew there was no drawdown facility for pension P, so asked how much it would 
cost to transfer it to pension G. He said that after the transfer, he wanted to quickly take his 
first drawdown payment. 
6 February 2021: Aviva wrote to Mr A about his retirement options. It included a TV as of 5 
February 2021 and said that Mr A should consider his options.
8 February 2021: Mr A called Aviva to chase for a response. And confirmed he wanted to 
transfer one plan into the other to facilitate drawdown. 
23 February 2021: Mr A called Aviva about his transfer request.
2 March 2021: Aviva wrote to Mr A about his transfer. It included a TV of £67,610.46. 
3 March 2021: Mr A signed and dated the declaration on the Transfer Payment Release 
form. 
3 March 2021: Mr A called Aviva about his transfer request, but the line went silent. He tried 
to call again the same day but I understand he had issues talking to Aviva.
4 March 2021: Mr A complained to Aviva. He said hed been sent the Transfer forms he 
needed the day before. He said he would forward the completed forms so that the transfer 
could complete.
11 March 2021: Mr A called Aviva again. The call note said: we are still waiting for the TVQ 
forms to finish the internal transfer.
16 March 2021: Mr A wrote to Aviva to tell it that there seemed to be some confusion over 
his transfer request. He explained that he was trying to transfer his plan that didnt allow 
drawdown into the plan that did. He said hed forwarded the Transfer Payment Release form 
to Aviva on 3 March 2021. And asked Aviva to confirm its understanding of his instructions 
and that they were being implemented.I understand that Aviva replied the same day. But I havent received a full copy of that 
response. 
19 March 2021: Mr A called Aviva about his transfer. The call notes said: There has been 
some confusion with [name] thinking the transfer was the other way round. Plan can transfer 
on Origo. Aviva offered to look into what was needed.
19 April 2021: Mr A called Aviva about the transfer. I spoke to GS team who said this is in 
hand but still in progress and they should be sending an Origo transfer request to us within 
the next 2-3 weeks.
27 April 2021: The call logs show that Aviva was: Still waiting for Origo request.
6 May 2021: Mr A called to chase the transfer. The call logs show that the Origo request was 
received on 30 April. Mr A was told the transfer should be completed by the end of the 
following week.
17 May 2021: Aviva wrote to Mr A to confirm that it had made the transfer payment of 
£67,930.43. 
18 May 2021: Aviva told Mr A that the transfer had completed. And said he should allow 
three to five working days for it to clear.
7 March 2022: Aviva wrote to its investment arm. It said thered been a delay sending Mr As 
funds so that the pension arrangements could be set up. And that it believed that Aviva was 
at fault for this delay, which may have had a detrimental effect upon Mr As pension. It also 
said it needed a response in the next 28 days so it could put things right as soon as 
possible. 
Ive not been given any further information about whether Aviva received a response to this 
request. But Id expect it to have chased for an answer so it could complete the outstanding 
loss calculations. 
Aviva said the transfer was completed on 12 May 2021. Mr A said the transfer shouldve 
happened on 22 February 2021, but that Aviva had delayed it until 21 May 2021.
Based on the limited information Ive got, I consider that the transfer couldve been 
completed much earlier than it was, but for the delays caused by Aviva. But I dont quite 
agree with Mr A that it shouldve completed on 22 February 2021.
I consider that Mr A made a formal request to transfer pension P to pension G on 1 February 
2021. Aviva then wrote to him on 6 February 2021 about his retirement options. If Aviva had 
instead replied to his transfer request that day, and provided the correct forms for the 
transfer, I consider that Mr A wouldve returned the forms the next day. I say this because he 
did return the forms immediately. 
I think its reasonable to expect that Aviva wouldve received the completed forms by 10 
February 2021. If I allow Aviva five working days to process the transfer request, I think I 
could reasonably expect it to have made the Origo request by 17 February 2021. The actual 
transfer took from 30 April 2021, when the Origo request was received, to 12 May 2021. This 
is eight working days. So I consider that it wouldve then taken a further eight working days 
to complete the transfer. This would mean that the transfer shouldve completed on 1 March 
2021.
I next considered whether the £200 Aviva has already paid Mr A for the distress and inconvenience the delay caused him is fair and reasonable.
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator considered that the £200 Aviva has already paid Mr A for the distress and 
inconvenience the delay caused him wasnt reasonable, given the additional delays in 
carrying out the loss assessment. He felt that this had caused Mr A considerable further 
distress and therefore that a further £150 should be paid.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. It felt that as the loss assessment would put things 
right, Mr A wouldnt be financially disadvantaged.
I agree with our investigator that until a loss assessment has been completed for Mr A, his 
complaint continues to cause distress and inconvenience. I can see that Mr A is concerned 
about the value of his pension while his complaint remains unresolved. Therefore I agree 
that an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
warranted here.
I received the following responses to my first provisional decision:
Mr A made the following points:
-The transfer was a simple one which shouldve been straightforward and quick.
-Tax liabilities shouldnt arise as both pension policies were uncrystallised. Hed not 
made a drawdown to date as he didnt want any transactions that could confuse the 
situation until it was resolved.
-He wanted Aviva to resolve his complaint forthwith. He felt his potential loss was 
currently £65,016. 
-It wasnt fair for Aviva to defer the loss calculations. 
Aviva said that as it hadnt received a response about the prices it needed for the loss 
calculation from the other division of Aviva, the loss assessment was still outstanding. It said 
because of this, it agreed that it should pay a further £150 to apologise to Mr A for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Aviva said itd asked for a further chaser to be sent to the relevant division of Aviva and for 
the request to be expedited. It said the last chaser was sent in mid-January 2023.
Aviva said that based on its ten working day service standard, but leaving the actual time itd 
taken for replies to be received, itd constructed its own timeline. This was:
Actual events 
06/01/2021 - Transfer request
02/03/2021 - PH chase and confirmation of intention
03/03/2021 - Quotes to Policy holder
28/04/2021 - Origo request (liability date)
12/05/2021  Transfer payment authorisedReconstructed timeline -
06/01/2021 - Transfer request
20/01/2021 - Date quotes should have been sent (30 WD delay)
15/03/2021  Origo would have been received - New liability date minus service standard 
and bank holidays
29/03/2021  Transfer payment authorised
Having considered the new information provided, I issued my second provisional 
decision on 27 March 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr A hasnt felt able to access his pension savings due to the extremely 
lengthy delays Aviva has caused to the agreed loss assessment. But he should note that he 
can access his pension if he needs to  in that case the loss assessment would take account 
of what had happened. 
I agree with Mr A that the transfer shouldve been straightforward and quick. And that Aviva 
should resolve this and complete the loss calculations as soon as possible.
I also agree that it looks like tax liabilities shouldnt arise once the loss assessment has been 
completed and any loss is paid into Mr As pension.
Aviva has provided its own timeline for when the transfer shouldve taken place. As this is 
based on its ten working day service standard, and uses the actual time taken for replies to 
be received, I think it fairly represents when the transfer shouldve taken place. Therefore Im 
satisfied that the loss calculation should be based on a notional liability date of 15 March 
2021, rather than 1 March 2021, as I estimated in my provisional decision. 
Responses to my second provisional decision
Aviva didnt respond to my second provisional decision.  
Mr A wanted to know what the loss figure would be. He said he was at a loss with what was 
going on. And that his pension was continuing to fluctuate wildly. 
Mr A said he thought his pension was being managed, and that he paid management 
charges. He said he was always told that when he approached retirement his funds would 
be put into a low-risk area. He asked if he could make a complaint about Avivas 
mismanagement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to calculate the loss figure for Mr A. Thats something Aviva will do. I appreciate 
that it would be better if I could tell Mr A this figure now but unfortunately thats not possible.
This decision covers Mr As complaint about the transfer delay. His response to my second 
provisional decision brought up new points about potential mismanagement. This didnt form part of Mr As original complaint to Aviva which it considered in its June and December 2021 
final response letters. As such, I cant fairly consider this here as it is effectively a new 
complaint. However, Mr A can, if he chooses, make a separate complaint to Aviva on this 
point. 
No other new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I 
set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr A as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if 
his transfer had gone ahead without delay. I consider that it shouldve happened on 15 
March 2021.
Aviva must undertake a comparison, as at the date of my final decision, between the 
notional value of Mr As pension (taking into account any additional contributions or 
withdrawals which hes made since the transfer) and the actual value of the pension. 
If the notional value of Mr As pension wouldve been higher if the transfer had happened on 
15 March 2021, rather than 28 April 2021, then there is a loss. 
Aviva should in the first instance pay this to Mr As pension, taking account of any charges 
and unused tax relief, but if this isnt possible or there are annual allowance or lifetime 
allowance protection issues, then the loss should be paid directly to Mr A.
Had it been possible to pay into the pension, it wouldve provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr 
A's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A wouldve been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Payment of any loss should be made within 28 days of Aviva being notified of Mr As 
acceptance of my final decision. If it isnt, interest at 8% simple each year should be added 
to the loss from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
Aviva must also pay Mr A an additional £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this ongoing issue has caused him. Aviva should also send a copy of the loss 
calculations to Mr A in a clear format. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things 
right section above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman