DRN-3466002
The complaint
Mr M says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) is responsible for his 
inability to trade shares, within his HL Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), in Lumen 
Technologies (formerly CenturyLink)  the shares  when he sought to do so in January 
2021. He claims compensation from HL for lost profit.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She mainly said:
Mr M held his HL SIPP on an execution only basis, whereby HL provided no advice. 
On 29 January 2021 he told HL he had been unable to trade the shares over the 
previous two to three days and that he could not see a current price for them.
HL explained that the shares had been subject to a corporate event in January 2021, 
following the companys earlier name change, and that the event related to an 
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) change and the issuing of a 
new ISIN for the stock of the newly named company. This meant the old line of stock 
was no longer tradeable and the new stock could not be traded until its ISIN was 
issued.
The event matched the definition (in the SIPPs terms and conditions) of a corporate 
action.
There is evidence from Lumen Technologies website confirming that the new brand 
name was launched in September 2020 but the formal and legal change of name and 
stock number was due to be effective as of 22 January 2021. This is consistent with 
what HL has described and this corporate action was outside its control. It received 
the new line of stock on 26 January 2021 and credited Mr Ms allocation to his SIPP 
account on 1 February 2021.
HL would usually have done this within two working days but in Mr Ms case 
allocation of the new stock to his SIPP took four working days. It says this was due to 
the timescale and business volumes it was experiencing at the time. The SIPPs 
terms say such an allocation would take place as soon as practicable, so it gave no 
specific time limit. Overall, the four working days taken for the allocation was not 
unreasonable. 
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. His claim is for 
£1,000 in compensation and he considered that, based on HLs responsibility for the two 
days delay in allocating the new shares to his account, he should be awarded at least half of 
this amount  especially as there is evidence to show that the lost profit he claims is real and 
not hypothetical. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on evidence of the events in this case, it appears that Mr M had been trying to trade 
the shares from around Tuesday 26 January 2021  which broadly matches with what he 
described, in his email to HL on Friday 29 January 2021, as his inability to trade the shares 
for the last 2 or 3 days. HL confirms that it received the new line of Lumen Technologies 
stock in its platform on 26 January 2021 and it is not disputed that allocation of the new line 
of shares to Mr Ms SIPP did not happen until 1 February 2021. It is therefore the case that 
the problem Mr M faced correlated with the time it took for HL to process the new line of 
stock and allocate his share of that to his SIPP. 
The issues to determine are therefore distilled to responsibility for the events between 26 
January and 1 February and to the question of whether (or not) it is fair and reasonable for 
HL to compensate Mr M for his claim that he was prevented from trading the new line of 
shares during this period (and lost an opportunity for profit).
However, before addressing these issues  and for the sake of completeness  I note that:
There was a difference between the company launching a new brand name in 2020 
and then legally changing its name and its stock number in January 2021. Like the 
investigator, I too consulted the website for Lumen Technologies and found the 
announcement which states  The Lumen brand was launched on Sept. 14, 2020. 
As a result, CenturyLink, Inc. is referred to as Lumen Technologies, or simply Lumen. 
The legal name CenturyLink, Inc. is expected to be formally changed to Lumen 
Technologies, Inc. on Jan. 22, 2021. Effective as of Jan. 22, 2021, the CUSIP 
number for the company's common stock is scheduled to change  The stock is a 
US stock and 22 January 2021 was a Friday, in this context I do not consider it 
doubtful that HL received the new line of stock in its platform on 26 January, the 
following Tuesday, and I have not seen evidence to suggest an earlier receipt.
As the investigator said, the change of name and stock ISIN amounted to a corporate 
action under the SIPPs terms and they also meant that the new line of shares could 
not be traded until both were completed. I anticipate Mr M would argue that, by HLs 
admission, both were completed (and the new stock was in its receipt) by 26 January 
2021 so his attempts to trade around the same time remain relevant. I agree, but the 
issue that then arises relates to the allocation of the new line of shares to his SIPP, 
which I identified above and is what I will address below.
HL accepts that the allocation would usually have been done within two working days, but in 
Mr Ms case it took four working days  and it refers to its business volumes at the time as a 
main cause for the two days delay. In this respect, Mr M could argue that shares, share-
dealing and elements directly related to share-dealing are inherently time sensitive, that the 
corporate action and its effects were such elements, that HL ought reasonably to have 
foreseen the likelihood of time sensitive share-dealing by shareholders in this context and 
that there was therefore a duty upon HL to avoid unreasonable delay in allocating the new 
line of shares to his SIPP. I agree with such an argument in this case, but there remains the 
need to establish an unreasonable delay by HL in the matter.
The relevant SIPP terms did not stipulate a precise time limit for the allocation, instead the 
duty placed upon HL in the terms was as follows  Where securities or cash are due to you 
as a result of a Corporate Action, these will be credited to your Account as soon as 
practicable after we receive them. [my emphasis]
HL expected to allocate the new line of shares to Mr Ms SIPP within two working days of 
receiving them, this being the time it usually would have taken for such a task. The fact that 
it took four working days means that the task took longer than would have been expected 
but it does not automatically mean it breached the SIPPs terms or that it was unreasonably delayed. I have not seen evidence to doubt HLs reference to business volumes causing the 
allocation to be completed in four working days, instead of two, and I do not consider that 
there is a need in this case to conduct a detailed audit into HLs operations at the time in 
order to verify this further. Furthermore, I am also mindful that Mr Ms first query into the 
matter was on Friday 29 January and by the following Monday (1 February) the allocation 
was completed.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded that HL did not allocate 
the new line of shares to Mr Ms SIPP as soon as practicable after it received them. It took 
two working days more to do this than it would have usually expected but there is a lack of 
evidence to show this was unreasonable in the circumstances  and there is evidence that 
the allocation was completed one working day after Mr Ms enquiry.  In this context, I do not 
find a basis to say HL committed a wrongdoing, so I do not find it responsible for Mr Ms 
compensation claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman