DRN-3145491
The complaint
Ms B complains that Dukes Financial Planning LLP (Dukes) has unfairly terminated their 
relationship. She further complains that some advice she was given about the transfer of 
pension benefits from another scheme was inappropriate, that Dukes failed to make her 
aware of the suspension of some property funds in which she was invested, and that Dukes 
actions have caused a delay in her accessing her pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash).
What happened
Ms B had been a client of Dukes since 2010. During that time she had received ongoing 
advice on her pension savings that were held in a self-invested pension plan (SIPP). Ms B 
also held pension savings in what appears to be an occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
Those pension savings were not of defined benefit in nature, but Dukes wasnt responsible 
for providing Ms B with any advice on their investment. Dukes had however been discussing 
with Ms B the potential transfer of the pension benefits from the OPS into her SIPP since at 
least 2015.
Ms B retired from her employment in early 2020. At that time she had further discussions 
with Dukes about her plans, and the potential transfer of her pension savings from the OPS. 
But that time was also marked by the start of the coronavirus pandemic. So it seems much 
of the discussion between Ms B and Dukes took place via email, and an online meeting was 
held in June 2020.
Following those discussions Dukes concluded that Ms Bs future plans were not sufficiently 
clear for it to recommend that she transfer her pension savings from the OPS to the SIPP. It 
thought there was a risk that Ms B would need to pay unnecessary advice fees, and 
additional product charges, that might not be needed if she chose to use her OPS pension 
savings to purchase an annuity. Its analysis didnt suggest that Ms B had any urgent need to 
take a PCLS at that time.
Ms B also complained that around 4% of her pension savings in the SIPP were invested in 
commercial property funds. Trading in two of those funds had been suspended, in 
December 2019 and March 2020. Ms B said that Dukes had failed to discuss the suspension 
of those funds, and the impacts of that, with her in the review meeting that took place in 
June 2020. Dukes says that it sent emails to Ms B at the time each fund was suspended  
and that holdings in property funds have always formed a part of her diversified investments. 
It says the reports it provided at each annual review showed a breakdown of Ms Bs pension 
investments. 
In July 2020 Dukes wrote to Ms B to advise her that it was terminating their relationship. It 
provided her with 20 days notice of the termination to allow a period of time for Ms B to 
engage a new financial advisor. Dukes said that the Client Agreements Ms B had signed 
(the latest being in June 2020) allowed either party to end the agreement without any notice 
period. However it says it provided 20 days notice as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Dukes 
had acted in accordance with the terms of the Client Agreement when it ended its 
relationship with Ms B. She agreed that Ms B had been made aware of the suspension of 
the property funds and that her investment in those funds had been shown in the report 
reviewed at the meeting in June 2020. And she thought Dukes decision to not recommend 
Ms B transfer her pension savings from the OPS had been reasonable. So our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms B didnt agree with that assessment. She said it would have been reasonable for Dukes 
to have specifically highlighted the suspended property funds during the review meeting. 
She says that since at least 2015 Dukes had been suggesting that the limited investment 
funds available for her OPS savings would mean it might be appropriate to transfer them into 
the SIPP. And she says that Dukes decision to terminate their relationship caused her 
unnecessary stress, distress, and depression. It caused her a delay of eight months in being 
able to take her PCLS. She expected better after a relationship that had lasted over ten 
years.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms B and by Dukes. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Recently Ms B has told us of another problem. She says that the SIPP she holds is not able 
to accept any transferred funds. But that issue hasnt formed part of the complaint Ms B has 
made to Dukes, or been something that this Service has been able to investigate. So I dont 
think it right that I should consider that matter in this decision.
There are three issues that I need to consider in this decision. First I will look at the advice 
Dukes gave to Ms B about whether she should transfer her pension savings from the OPS to 
her SIPP. I will then consider the suspension of the property funds that she holds in the 
SIPP. And finally I will look at what happened when Dukes decided to end its relationship 
with Ms B.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R requires a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. So that is the 
basis on which Dukes needed to consider its advice to Ms B regarding the transfer of her 
pension savings from the OPS to the SIPP.Dukes wasnt able to provide Ms B with investment advice regarding the benefits she held 
within the OPS. So I can understand why it might have been attractive for Ms B to combine 
her pension savings into a single policy, under the direction of Dukes. It seems that she had 
a lengthy relationship with the firm and valued the advice and support that it gave to her.
But moving the pension savings from the OPS would come at a cost. Ms B would need to 
pay a fee to Dukes for its advice, and facilitation of the transfer. And the ongoing charges 
Ms B would need to pay would be higher after the transfer than they were when the monies 
were held in the OPS plan. And whilst, in the longer term, the efficiencies of Dukes 
managing the entirety of Ms Bs pension savings might mean those additional costs were 
justified by better investment returns, they were a key consideration when Dukes was 
providing its advice.
I can see that Dukes had a number of discussions with Ms B (generally via email) about her 
future plans. As Ive noted earlier, Ms B had recently retired and so was adjusting to her new 
lifestyle. And that time coincided with the start of the coronavirus pandemic and the social 
restrictions that were put in place. So it isnt entirely surprising that Ms B seemed unsure of 
her longer-term plans  and revised some of those plans on a number of occasions.
I think it was reasonable that Dukes needed to ensure that Ms Bs plans were more fixed 
before it provided advice to move the pension savings from the OPS. As Ive said doing so 
came at a cost to Ms B. And had she, for example, later chosen to use those pension 
savings to take a PCLS and then purchase an annuity, those costs would not be recovered 
meaning her retirement income would be reduced.
I appreciate that Dukes decision to not recommend that Ms B transfer her pension savings 
at that time might have been disappointing for her. It is clear that it is something she had 
been discussing with the financial advisor for a number of years as potentially beneficial 
once she had retired and contributions were no longer being made to the OPS plan. But 
I havent seen anything to make me think those discussions had ever reached the point of 
being formal advice. So it was in 2020, when the time of Ms Bs retirement had been 
reached, that Dukes needed to consider whether it could recommend the transfer. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it to conclude that, at that time, Ms B would be better off 
leaving her pension savings within the OPS plan.
Trading in various investment funds can be suspended from time to time. Generally these 
suspensions are put in place to protect investors in the fund where it is difficult to accurately 
value the underlying investments, or there is poor liquidity in some assets. It ensures that 
investors wishing to remain invested in the fund do not see the value of their holdings 
unfairly diminished due to other investors choosing to sell their holdings.
Dukes has shown us that over the past ten years Ms B has always held property funds as 
part of the diversified investments in her SIPP. The actual percentage size of those holdings 
has changed due to different investment strategies and changes in market sentiment. But, 
by 2020, approximately 4% of Ms Bs SIPP holdings were invested in that way.
In December 2019 and March 2020 two of the three property funds that Ms B held in her 
SIPP announced that they were suspending trading. I can see that Dukes relayed that 
information to Ms B at each time, and invited her to get in touch if she had any questions. 
For obvious reasons the suspension of a fund is not announced in advance, and so 
financial advisors can only react to the information. And by that time it is impossible to take 
any corrective actions.I understand that Ms B is disappointed that Dukes failed to specifically discuss the 
suspended funds during their review meeting. But at that time, with the funds still 
suspended, there was little that Dukes could tell Ms B, that it hadnt already explained in its 
earlier emails. I think the opportunity remained for Ms B to have raised the matter if she had 
remained concerned about those investments. But even if I thought Dukes should have 
raised the issue (which for the avoidance of doubt I dont), I cannot see that not doing so 
would have caused Ms B to lose out. The funds were still suspended so no corrective 
actions could have been taken at that time.
From time to time Dukes asked Ms B to review, and sign, its Client Agreement document. 
The last time Ms B was asked to sign that agreement was in June 2020 when she had asked 
Dukes to provide her with a formal quotation for the charge it would make for advising on her 
proposed transfer from the OPS. The Client Agreement included a section headed 
Cancellation and Amendments. It contained the following text, under a heading of 
Termination;
Either you or Dukes Financial Planning LLP may terminate this agreement and our 
authority to act on your behalf without reason or needing to meet other conditions, at 
any time and without penalty. Notice of this termination must be given in writing and 
will take effect from the date of receipt.
I can see that Dukes wrote to Ms B on 14 July 2020 to advise her that it would be 
terminating its relationship with her on 11 August. It said it was providing 20 business days 
written notice solely to allow her time to find an alternative advisor. In its letter it explained 
that it felt there had been a breakdown in their business relationship. It said that it had 
reviewed the costs of providing its services to Ms B and concluded that its advice was no 
longer financially viable. And it said that Ms Bs advisor was looking to reduce his working 
hours as he eased into retirement meaning the firm could no longer provide its services to 
her.
I think that the notice Dukes provided to Ms B met the terms of the termination clause 
contained in the Client Agreement. It simply provided her with notice, in writing, of the 
termination. I have seen that Ms B disputes the grounds that Dukes has said caused the 
decision to terminate the relationship. But I dont think I need to consider whether those 
grounds are fair. The terms of the agreement say that it can be terminated without reason. 
So regardless of whether the grounds Dukes has provided are fair, it was still entitled to 
terminate the contract at any time.
I appreciate how disappointing that decision was for Ms B. She had established a 
relationship with her advisor, and paid for his services over a lengthy period of time. But 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Ms B hasnt been provided with an appropriate 
level of service over that time. It is for either party to decide if, or when, the relationship 
should cease. 
It doesnt appear, from the evidence I have seen, that Dukes had agreed to start work on, or 
had already started, any activities that would have culminated in Ms B receiving a PCLS. So 
whilst I understand her frustration at the delays she might have faced whilst appointing a 
new advisor, I dont think Dukes have any responsibility for those delays.
Overall, whilst I have no doubts that Ms B feels she has been let down by Dukes, I havent 
seen any evidence to persuade me the firm has done something wrong. I think it provided 
reasonable advice about whether or not Ms B should transfer her pension savings from the 
OPS to her SIPP. I think Dukes reasonably informed Ms B about the suspension of two of 
the property funds in which her pension savings were invested. And I think Dukes acted in 
line with the terms of its client agreement when it ended its relationship with Ms B. So I dont 
think the complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Dukes Financial Planning LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman