DRN-3780457
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc blocked his payment to a crypto currency 
platform that he had previously used.
What happened
Mr R trades using a crypto currency platform. He says he had been doing this for a while 
without issue using his Co-operative Bank account. However, in May 2022 he tried to buy 
some crypto coins and the transaction was blocked. He called Co-operative Bank and says 
that he had to wait an hour and was then told that the bank no longer allowed payments to 
the platform Mr R had been using due to concerns over fraud. He says he has banked with 
Co-operative Bank for 20 years and doesnt have another bank account. He says that the 
bank shouldnt be telling him who he can and cant trade with and that he wasnt given notice 
of this change. He says this issue has resulted in lost potential profit.  
The Co-operative Bank says that a decision was made in April 2022 to stop payments to the 
platform Mr R was using. It explained that it had noted a high level of Cryptocurrency 
investment scams targeting customers across retail and business banking and it blocked a 
number of cryptocurrency companies from debiting customers accounts. It said this action 
was taken in line with its terms and condition and in order to protect customers.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that the Co-operative Bank had made 
a commercial decision about not allowing payments to the platform. She said it wasnt 
required to provide Mr R with notice of this decision. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that even if the Co-operative Bank 
acted within its rights to decline the transaction, he should have been informed of its decision 
to stop allowing transactions with this platform as he had used it previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated that he was unable to make the transaction as 
intended in May 2022. I appreciate this will have been a surprise as he had made 
transactions to the platform previously. The Co-operative Bank has explained that a 
commercial decision was make in April 2022 not to allow payments to the platform Mr R was 
using. It isnt my role to assess the commercial decisions of banks but instead to consider 
whether the bank did anything wrong by the actions it took or whether these resulted in Mr R 
being treated unfairly.
In the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account is says that payments will be made from the 
account unless there are certain issues. One of these includes suspecting fraudulent or 
criminal activity. In this case the Co-operative Bank has explained that the decision to stop 
making payments to the platform (and certain other cryptocurrency companies) was due to 
concerns about fraud and a need to protect its customers. Therefore, in this case, I do not 
find that I can say the Co-operative Bank acted outside its terms and conditions by blocking 
Mr Rs payment.
I understand that Mr R wasnt contacted about the decision the Co-operative Bank had made 
but I wouldnt expect it to do so. The Co-operative took a commercial decision and when 
Mr R contacted it about the issue he had experienced it provided him with an explanation of 
the decision it had made which I find reasonable. While I understand that Mr R feels he 
should have been contacted in advance I do not find this is the case and I do not find he was 
treated unfairly in regard to his transaction. 
I understand that Mr R is frustrated by the decision the Co-operative Bank has made and 
note his comment about not having another bank account. But as the Co-operative Bank has 
made a commercial decision that has been fairly applied to all customers, I do not find I can 
say it is required to take a different approach to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman