DRN-2183393
The complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm where or when the 
policy was taken out, the credit card was opened in 1998 but the banks records dont show 
PPI being charged on the account until 2000. It gave Mrs H protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of 
Mrs Hs policy but it has given a range (from £0.59p to £0.79p per £100 of outstanding 
balance) and I have used the higher cost for my analysis.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
There is no documentation available from Mrs Hs sale, but this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it was. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said  
that she was never made aware she had PPI  and looked at what we do know about how 
Lloyds sold PPI at this time. 
Based on the sample documentation weve seen we know Mrs H wouldve had to actively 
select PPI on the application form to have taken it out. So, its most likely Lloyds made it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mrs H agreed to take it out. I can understand she might not 
remember this given the time since the sale.
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H. Based on what I know of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for her. She was entitled to six months full 
pay and six months half pay from her employer if she was sick and a redundancy package, 
but the PPI would have paid out in addition to these benefits and for up to 12 months. She 
had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to use these for other living 
expenses or to keep them intact for her future needs. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve 
been useful to Mrs H if she was sick, had an accident or became unemployed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems she wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy was competitively priced 
apparently affordable. So, overall, I think it unlikely Mrs H wouldve made a different decision 
if better information had been provided.
On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But Lloyds
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mrs H has raised that she has had other successful PPI claims, but I can only comment here 
on the merits of this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank
PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman