DRN-3073015
The complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down a claim 
on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car broke down while he was abroad. He had his car recovered to the UK and 
claimed on his policy. Red Sands reviewed the claim and went to inspect the car to 
determine the cause of the failure. Upon inspecting the car, Red Sands needed more 
information about the condition of the injectors so sent them off for testing. 
The testing showed that two injectors werent operating correctly, and this is what likely 
caused the engine to fail. Red Sands said the policy didnt cover injectors so turned down Mr 
Cs claim. Mr C didnt think this was fair and complained, he said the garage in Germany 
said the cause of the failure was the oil pump and that the repairing garage had also said the 
same. 
Red Sands reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its engineer had said the 
cause of failure was incorrect combustion and that the tests on the injectors confirmed this 
as two of them werent operating correctly. Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found that 
the engineers report confirmed the engine had failed due to incorrect combustion and this 
was supported by the injectors not operating properly. She also said she hadnt been 
provided with anything other than Mr Cs testimony to show the oil pump had been the cause 
of the failure. Because of this she didnt think Red Sands had acted unfairly. Mr C didnt 
agree and said two garages had said the failure was due to the oil pump, he also said a 
manufacturing garage had seen the car not long before the engine failed and not noted any 
faults. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say it will pay towards the cost of repair following a 
breakdown of a covered part. It goes on to define breakdown as:
The actual and sudden mechanical failure of any PART(s), causing a sudden 
stoppage of its function and which necessitates repair or replacement to resume 
those functions.
Red Sands has said Mr Cs claim isnt covered as the injectors arent covered under the 
policy. Ive checked the policy terms and they say: 
FUEL INJECTION SYSTEMS:
Throttle body, airflow meter, idle control valve, cold start valve, warm up regulator, 
overrun cut off valve, throttle potentiometer, fuel
accumulator, pressure regulator, map sensor [not injectors and heater plugs].
Im therefore satisfied that injectors arent covered. However, Mr C doesnt accept the 
injectors are the cause of failure, so Ive also looked to see if Red Sands has acted fairly and 
reasonable in deciding the cause of the engine failure. 
The engineers report says:
As the piston crowns were cleaned pre inspection therefore no indication of spray 
pattern visible we recommend injector testing to be carried out. With this specialist 
injection testing undertaken we can establish if indeed 2 of the injectors are operating 
outside manufacturers tolerances. 
Which now can be confirmed in documentation below that two injectors have failed 
testing supported by the result sheet provided. 
Incorrect combustion has resulted in overexpansion of the pistons resulting in 
consequential scoring to the cylinder bores with No 4 cylinders being the worst 
affected.
Ive also seen the report from where the injectors were sent for testing and it confirmed two 
injectors werent operating correctly. This, combined with the engineers comments on the 
cause of failure and supported by pictures, Im satisfied Red Sands has acted fairly and 
reasonably in determining the cause of failure. I say this because the cause of the fault was 
unclear when its engineer inspected the car, so it then sent parts for further testing. 
Ive also considered Mr Cs argument about two garages saying the oil pump caused the 
failure. From the evidence provided Ive not seen enough to persuade me the oil pump had 
failed and caused the engine failure. I say this because there is only Mr Cs testimony that 
the oil pump is the cause of failure on his car whereas Ive seen an engineers report which 
has also had parts sent for testing to see if theyre working correctly. So Im more persuaded 
by the report as its provided an explanation of the failure along with another company 
testing the parts. 
Furthermore, Im not persuaded that a health check completed by a manufacturing garage is 
enough to show the injectors were operating correctly when it was done. I say this because 
the health check seems to focus on things like tyre, lights, suspension, horn etc. Im 
therefore not persuaded that the health check would have picked up the issue if it was 
apparent at the time. Even if the health check would have picked up the issue with the 
injectors, it doesnt mean thats not the cause of failure with Mr Cs car. It would just show 
the issue wouldnt have been going on for as long as Red Sands engineer said, and that 
isnt enough to persuade me the cause of failure isnt correct. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but without further evidence to show 
the cause of failure was something else then Im unable to say Red Sands has acted 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman