DRN-3686387
The complaint
Mrs H complains about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) offer to settle her car insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mrs Hs car was involved in an accident on 15 December 2020 which she reported to her 
insurer, esure. They arranged for the repairs to be carried out by their approved repairer  
who Ill refer to as company J. Mrs H says company J carried out repairs but then explained 
Mrs Hs car needed to be taken to the main dealer for a full diagnostic test. Mrs H says esure 
then appointed an independent engineer from company H who also said her car needed to 
be taken to the main dealer for a full diagnostic test. Mrs H says her car was then recovered 
by company J and delivered to the main dealer who requested a sum of £1,344 for 
investigation. Esure refused to authorise this test and paid Mrs H £3,023.35 for the damage 
they said was attributable to the accident. Mrs H says it was unreasonable for esure to 
ignore the opinion of company J and company H. Mrs H says her cars engine seized and 
esure refused to cover the damage to her cars engine and gearbox so she complained. 
Esure responded to the complaint and said theyre aware Mrs H is unhappy that damage to 
the cars engine and gearbox wont be covered under the claim. They said, following a 
review of the claim they found that the damage was not related to the accident. They said 
their engineer instructed company H to carry out an inspection on the damage to the car and 
they confirmed they didnt consider the damage to be accident related. Esure said the 
damage had also been reviewed by senior engineers who also didnt feel the damage was 
accident related. Mrs H then instructed her own engineer  who Ill refer to as company D. 
Their report was supportive of Mrs Hs claim that the issues with her engine and gearbox are 
related to the accident. Esure maintained their position that the damage isnt related. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mrs H and esure on 8 August 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
     
I understand the main dispute here relates to the parties views on what damage 
should be attributable to the accident and whether the car shouldve been written off 
rather than being repaired.     
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the 
damage, and thats what esure did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable 
for esure to rely on the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the 
claim. I can see esure initially refer the case to company J. They inspect the car and 
provide a report with a repair estimate and images. 
Esure raise some queries about the repairs and company J say the car wont run and 
will need pushing into their workshop as the issue needs to be diagnosed. Esure 
respond and ask company J to let them know if they have issues starting the car and 
find that its unrelated to the accident. They reply to say they have concerns with the 
claim as the cars engine is seized and wont turn over. They say there is oil and 
coolant present with no physical signs of damage to the engines block. Company J 
say they feel the claim requires further investigation to clarify the claim circumstances 
and the damage sustained. Esure respond and say company H will be attending to 
inspect the car.    
Esure then instruct company H to carry out a full inspection of Mrs Hs car. The 
engineers report is headed Repairable and notes the car as having suffered a light 
blow and shows the point of impact as being front drivers side corner. The notes 
on the report say, Mrs H confirmed the car wasnt driven after the accident and was 
recovered to Mrs Hs home address. And, Mrs H says the cars engine wont run 
since the accident. The engineer says at the time of the inspection no ramps were 
made available for him. The report says the car had been on a ramp and it was noted 
there was no visible damage to the underside or any damage to the engine from 
underneath. The report says a technician had tried to turn the engine with a spanner 
on the crank and confirmed the engine had seized. The report says The fault light 
relating to the changing gear would need to go [to] the dealer for a diagnostic read. In 
relation to the engine/gearbox issue I am unable to relate this to the claim on notice, 
however you may consider taking the vehicle to the main dealer for a full diagnostic 
interrogation. 
Esure then paid for repairs to Mrs Hs car but didnt cover the issue relating to the 
engine seizure. I can see Mrs H then instructs company D. This report says that Mrs 
Hs husband drove the car after the accident while recording a video with his mobile 
phone. The engineer from company D says he has watched the video and can hear 
the engine operating correctly. He also says the video shows that the car operated 
perfectly well shortly after the incident. Company D have taken a screenshot from 
the video showing the cars dashboard which shows the engine running but no 
warning lights illuminated. Company D say, after driving the car for approximately 10 
minutes several warning lights started illuminating on the dashboard. Company D say 
they understand Mrs Hs car lost power and had to be transported to her home. 
Company D say I suspect that the vehicle had commenced limp mode  this is a 
state of part shutdown which is intended to prevent or limit damage or further 
damage to the engine and/or gearbox.
Company D say company J collected the car from Mrs Hs home address to carry out 
repairs. Company D say basic tests were then completed with a view to uncover the 
issue with the engine or gearbox. They say a technician attempted to turn the 
crankshaft nut with a spanner and confirmed the engine had seized. Company D say 
that company H then carried out an accident damage inspection and they also 
confirmed the engine appeared seized. And, being unable to relate any engine 
issues to the accident, company H advised that a full diagnostic interrogation should 
be completed by a main dealer. 
Company D say they understand the main dealer also tried to turn the crankshaft 
with a spanner. They say the main dealer confirmed there was an engine seizure but 
required £1,344 to dismantle the engine to decide what had seized. Company D 
comment on the proposed diagnostic interrogation by the main dealer and say this 
inspection wouldnt investigate a correlation between the accident and the engine 
failure, it would only offer information on why the engine no longer worked. 
Company D say they feel esure have unfairly pushed the burden of proof onto Mrs H 
rather than spending more time investigating the matter. They say, I suspect that 
the possible engine/gearbox failure under review, has happened as a result of the 
incidentYour evidence clearly shows, that on the balance of probability, the said 
vehicle was working correctly prior to the incident and for a short time following the 
incident.     I can see company D then go into detail about the inspection they carried out. They 
say they were also unable to turn the crankshaft. They placed the car over lifting 
ramps and checked the top section of the engine and noted it hadnt sustained any 
oil starvation or overheating. They then drained the engine oil from the engine and 
removed the oil sump to expose the bottom section of the engine. They say initially 
there wasnt any obvious damage or oil starvation and all appeared normal. They 
then removed the centre bearing cap for the crankshaft  company D say this is 
because this is often the area where damage is caused should the end of the 
crankshaft be impacted. They say, when the bearing cap was removed, they noted 
that the bearing shell had moved approximately 20mm, therefore cutting off the oil 
supply to this area, and ultimately causing the engine to seize. They then removed 
the bearing shell which required considerable force to move the crankshaft 
sufficiently. They say, once the bearing shell was removed, the engine turned quite 
freely, so it was clear that this bearing was the prominent reason why the crankshaft 
would not turn (engine seizure).  
Company D say they were assisted by an engine specialist who provided their own 
comments. Their comments are contained within company Ds report and say the car 
has been impacted to the off-side front corner, off-side front wing, off-side front road 
wheel and off-side front bumper corner. The engine specialist confirms the engine 
was partially dismantled to ascertain the extent of the damage caused by the impact. 
They say the engine was seized but following further dismantling and removal of the 
main crankshaft bearing cap and bearing, the engine became free to turn. They say 
the main bearing thrust washers were damaged and wouldve been caused by the 
off-side front chassis leg coming into contact with the engine crankshaft nose and the 
front drive belt pulling. They say the movement has been caused by the flexing of the 
engine mountings and the off-side front chassis leg. Company Ds report contains 
photos which show theres less than half an inch between the crankshaft 
nose/pulleys and the off-side chassis leg.  
The engine specialist says they understand the car was driven for approximately one 
mile after the impact before the engine seized. They say The seizure was due to the 
main bearing bolts bendingdue to the impact to the crankshaft nose. Also, the 
bending of the bearing cap bolts has caused misalignment of the bearing caps that 
caused seizure of the thrust washers on the front main cap. The centre main bearing 
cap has been displaced causing contact and friction leading to seizure and damage 
to the centre shell bearings. The distance of one mile prior to seizure is not unusual. 
They refer to the main bearing and the centre main bearing having been impacted 
and that the damage is caused by the crankshaft being pushed backwards by the 
impact to the off-side front and the crankshaft being held backwards due to the bent 
main bearing cap bolts. They say The damage and the direction are exactly in 
keeping with the engine damage and their report concludes The damage is 
directly due to the impact as discussed. The seizure occurring only a mile after 
impact is not unusual. Absolutely no sign of previous lack of engine oil or neglect are 
apparent. 
Company D agree with the engine specialist that the cars engine is beyond repair 
and would need to be replaced. They say the anticipated cost of this work is likely to 
exceed £8,500 so proceeding on this basis isnt financially economical. They say 
Glasss guide suggests a private sale value of £12,290 and refer to company Js pre-
accident valuation of £10,457 and company Hs at £12,000. Company D say, 
because the cars body is only in fair condition and has areas of pre-existing damage, 
they would recommend a figure of £11,400 as this is a middle ground figure. Company D conclude I am satisfied that the evidence you have presented to me 
confirms the engine of your motor vehicle worked perfectly well prior to the incident 
on the 15 December 2020, during the impact, and for a short period after that impact. 
I am also perfectly satisfied with the findings and conclusion kindly provided by 
[engine specialist]
Company H then carry out a second inspection  they say the purpose of this 
inspection is to undertake an interrogation of the ECU to assist in validating the 
claim. They say the interrogation of the ECU confirmed 67 faults stored within the 
system and almost all of the faults stored at the same odometer reading of 55,038 
miles. They note the alarm history highlighted an interior protection sensor being 
triggered on 7 December 2020 at 53,841 miles and a tow away sensor being 
triggered on 31 December at 55,044 miles. The report concludes Interrogation of the 
ECU has not found any record of details relating to failure of the engine or confirmed 
pre existing issues, as the OBD system reports that it has not been driven since the 
fault codes were last reset, there is no way to confirm the pre existing faults that may 
have been stored in relation to the engine failure.
In this case, theres conflicting expert evidence  on the one hand, company H dont 
consider the engine/gearbox seizure to be accident related and on the other hand 
company D believe it is. Where there is conflicting expert evidence I have to weigh 
up which is more persuasive. I can see company H didnt put the car on a ramp to 
investigate the bottom side of the engine  although they say an estimator did and 
they didnt find any evidence of damage to the engine. Company D did, and after 
removing the centre bearing cap for the crankshaft, this is what led to their discovery 
about what was causing the engine to seize. Looking at both reports, I believe 
company D carried out a more thorough inspection of the car and its clear they took 
investigate steps which company H didnt. Company D have also provided photos 
showing the damage to support their findings, so I do believe, on its own, company 
Ds report can be regarded as persuasive. 
I can see esure have reviewed company Ds report and say, while not impossible, it 
is unlikely on balance that a minor accident such as this would cause an engine to 
seize. Esure say company Ds report didnt establish a link between the accident and 
the issues with the cars engine. Esure say the report from company D says, After 
driving the vehicle for approximately 10 minutes post-incident (circa 1 mile), several 
warning lights illuminated on the dashboard to include a triangle STOP sign with a 
message Without changing gear, consult workshop. Other warning messages 
referred to the damaged headlights and indicators. The vehicle lost power, so you 
pulled to the kerb-side and telephoned a recovery truck. The recovery truck 
transported both you and the vehicle home to [Mrs Hs address]. I suspect that the 
vehicle had commenced limp mode  this is a state of part shutdown which is 
intended to prevent or limit damage or further damage to the engine and/or gearbox.
 
Esure say, whilst they have no reason to doubt this is what happened, they must 
consider why they werent told this when the accident was reported to them or a few 
days later when Mrs H contacted them to get the car booked into the garage for 
repair. Esure say, it is of note that during that second call, when Mrs H was asked if 
the car was driveable she said that it wasnt as only one headlight was working so 
she was concerned about being stopped by the Police. 
Esure say they wouldnt have thought this would have been the greatest concern as 
the car had allegedly broken down shortly after the accident and had been recovered 
to Mrs Hs home. Esure say this does lend itself to the fact that the car may not have 
broken down quite so soon after the accident. Esure say they also needed to consider that the car wasnt booked into company J 
until 5 January 2021 as Mrs H needed a larger car than they could provide. Esure 
say, if remaining mobile was a priority then they wouldve expected that the courtesy 
car would have been preferable to having no car whilst Mrs Hs car wasnt running. 
Esure say, while it isnt common for a minor accident like this to cause an engine to 
seize, theyre not saying its impossible but it is, on balance, unlikely. 
Ive listened to Mrs Hs husbands call to esure on 16 December 2020 to report the 
accident. He confirms the accident occurred the day before and explains the accident 
circumstances. He describes there being damage to the right front side headlight, the 
wing and bumper and says its not huge damage. When asked whether any 
recovery agents were used, he says no. Mrs H then calls a few days later on 19 
December to confirm she wants repairs to be carried out. Mrs H queries what will 
happen next as she cant use her car as its not roadworthy. The call handler says 
they understand the car is drivable and Mrs H says it isnt as the lights completely 
not working, theres only one light working at one time. The call handler says the 
details they have are damage to the off-side front wing and the bumper is dented. 
Mrs H says the headlight is completely damaged, theres damage to the shell and the 
wing and bonnet. Mrs H says theres no headlight on the right side of the car so she 
cant drive the car and is worried about being stopped by the police.  
Esure refer to the call on 16 December and say there was ample opportunity to tell 
esure the car was recovered. They then refer to the call with Mrs H to book the car in 
for repair. Esure say Mrs H only told them the headlight was out and this concerned 
her as she might be stopped by the police. Esure say its reasonable to ask why this 
would concern Mrs H given the car wasnt running so there was no way she would be 
stopped by the police. Esure say, this is a genuine concern as it indicates the car 
was running when Mrs H spoke with them. 
Esure have set out the concerns they have in relation to the claim. They say Mrs Hs 
husband didnt tell them the car had broken down and was recovered when they 
spoke on 16 December  and they also werent told about this when they spoke with 
Mrs H on 19 December. They query why Mrs H was concerned about being stopped 
by the police when her car was allegedly immobile and had been recovered twice at 
that point in time. And, they query why Mrs H delayed in booking the car with 
company J citing she needed a larger hire car, when her own car was allegedly 
immobile. 
Esure refer to company Hs second report which notes the tow away sensor was 
triggered three times on 31 December with a mileage of 55,044. Esure say this 
indicates this was the first time the car had been towed, potentially calling into 
question the car being towed twice previously. Esure refer to company H noting an 
alarm trigger for the interior protection sensor on 7 December at mileage 53,841. 
They say, this means that, if they were to accept the car broke down on 15 
December, with a mileage of 55,044, the car had travelled 1,203 miles in only eight 
days. But, if they were to consider this mileage having been covered between 7 
December to 31 December, then its much closer to the expected mileage. Esure 
say, having checked the MOT history of the car for the time Mrs H has owned it, it 
does seem the mileage between 7 to 31 December is more likely to be accurate. 
They also say, Mrs H didnt book the car in with company J until she could get a 
larger car, but she did then book it in on 31 December  the day esure believe the 
car actually experienced the issues. Esure say, all their concerns, when taken 
together, lends itself to the conclusion that the breakdown didnt happen as Mrs H 
and her husband have described. I think its important to make clear, Im not an expert in car engines so, when 
considering whether esure have acted fairly and reasonably, Im guided by the expert 
reports. While its clear theres conflicting evidence in this regard, I must also take 
into account the evidence of the phone calls provided by esure. I cant say esure 
have acted unreasonably in questioning the different account of events given to them 
and company D. During both calls, theres no mention of the car being immobile or 
having to be recovered  in fact, when the call handler specifically asks Mrs Hs 
husband whether recovery agents attended, he confirms they didnt. A cars engine 
seizing and having to be recovered is, I believe, a material fact which I would expect 
a consumer to raise with their insurer when describing the damage to their car. As 
mentioned above, it wasnt mentioned during two calls where a conversation did take 
place about the damage. And, even when further probed about the damage, Mrs H 
explains shes concerned about the police stopping her for the damaged headlight, 
even though the car was allegedly immobile. 
In addition to the above, company Hs second report provides further evidence which 
shows the car wasnt towed until 31 December  which is two weeks after the 
accident. I acknowledge Mrs H has provided an invoice from the recovery agent 
which is dated 15 December, but esure say they contacted the recovery agent to 
validate the information on the invoice and were told they wrote what Mrs H asked 
them to write as they had no idea about the mileage of the car or when it was 
recovered. Esure say the recovery agent was only aware theyd recovered the car as 
Mrs H had an image of her car on their recovery truck. Esure say they therefore dont 
believe the information on the invoice is accurate. Ive listened to this call which took 
place in April 2021 and the recovery agent says they cant recall the date of recovery 
but were able to recall they had recovered Mrs Hs car as she showed them a photo 
of her car on their recovery truck. The call handler asks about the invoice and the 
recovery agent says Mrs H provided them with the date to write on the invoice and all 
other information on the invoice. The member of staff at the recovery agent who 
wrote the invoice confirms he wrote what Mrs H asked him to write. On this basis, Im 
not persuaded the invoice demonstrates Mrs Hs car was recovered on 15 
December. And, I dont think esure have acted unfairly in taking the view that the 
problems associated with the engine seizure arent related to the accident.    
   
I understand Mrs H has incurred costs which includes recovery of her car and also 
company Ds report. I also note Mrs H says esure havent followed advice from 
company H and company J for a diagnostic test to be carried out. Given that I dont 
think esure have acted unreasonably in saying the engine seizure is unrelated to the 
accident, I dont think its unreasonable for them to decline to pay the costs incurred 
by Mrs H as part of this claim. I understand Mrs Hs point about the diagnostic test 
being recommended but esure say they dont consider it reasonable to pay £1,300 
for something they dont believe to be related to the accident. I dont think esure are 
acting unreasonably here, particularly as company D note that this diagnostic test 
wont assist in determining a link between the accident and engine failure. It would 
offer information on why the engine no longer worked but I cant see it would help 
prove Mrs Hs claim. 
I note Mrs H believes esure should write-off her car and pay her the pre-accident 
valuation suggested by company D. Esure say their engineers dont feel the 
mechanical issues are accident related so they decided not to write the car off. I 
know Mrs H firmly believes the mechanical issues are directly linked to the accident 
but taking all of the information Ive seen, I believe its more likely than not, the issues 
causing the cars engine to seize, didnt arise out of the accident. So, I think esure 
reached their decision on the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont think it was unfair for them to pay for the repairs to the car which are directly attributable to 
the accident and not the issues causing the cars engine to seize."
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs H or esure, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to not uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, neither party has provided any additional points for me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
not uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman