DRN-3983312
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lowell Financial Ltd is unfairly pursuing her for a debt in her name. 
What happened
In November 2019 Lowell purchased a debt in Miss Ds name from a mobile phone supplier. 
The debt related to three mobile phones and their associated call contracts taken out with a 
business Ill call T. Lowell sent Miss D a Notice of Assignment to confirm the new 
arrangements. And it went on to try and contact Miss D to discuss repayments. 
In late 2021 Lowell passed the account to a third party which contacted Miss D on its behalf. 
Miss D went on to raise a dispute via a credit reference agency. 
In April 2022 Lowell spoke with Miss D and explained the debt had come about due to fraud 
and that someone else had opened the account in her name. Lowell completed an internal 
fraud review but didnt agree it was seeking to contact the wrong person. Lowell also 
contacted T to raise a dispute on Miss Ds behalf. 
T responded to the dispute Lowell raised on Miss Ds behalf but confirmed its view was that 
the debt was genuine. As a result, Lowell continued to contact Miss D in an attempt to collect 
the outstanding balance. 
Miss D complained to Lowell and it sent her a final response. Lowell said it wasnt party to 
the circumstances surrounding the account application. Lowell said it had raised a dispute 
with T and been sent copies of the documents used when opening the account. Lowell didnt 
agree it was acting unfairly by requesting payment from Miss D or recording a default on her 
credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds case. They thought Lowell had dealt with 
Miss Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss D asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has explained that the account was opened due to fraud and that she didnt received 
the mobile phones that were sent by T. But this complaint relates to Lowell and whether its 
acted fairly by asking Miss D to repay the outstanding balance. As Lowell wasnt the 
business that originally provided the credit or supplied the goods, its limited in what it can do 
when a dispute is raised. 
When a consumer raises concerns with a debt purchaser that the original account isnt theirs 
or was opened by way of fraud, the rules require it to contact the original business to raise a 
dispute. Lowell has supplied systems evidence that shows it acted in line with the 
regulations and contacted T on Miss Ds behalf to raise a dispute last year. But T responded 
and confirmed its view was that the debt belongs to Miss D. So while I understand why Miss 
D remains unhappy that Lowell is continuing to pursue her for the outstanding balance, Im 
satisfied it has fairly raised a dispute on her behalf with T. And Im satisfied that T confirmed 
there werent grounds to return the account or cease pursuing Miss D. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Miss D, but I havent been persuaded that Lowell acted unfairly. 
Our investigator asked Miss D whether shed raised a dispute with T directly. Miss D advised 
that T wasnt willing to help and referred her to Lowell instead. When Lowell contacted T to 
raise the dispute, T responded and advised that Miss D hadnt raised any concerns with it 
directly. I dont know what happened when Miss D contacted T. But T is regulated in its own 
right and ought to be able to investigate Miss Ds concerns over fraud. At this point I can only 
recommend that Miss D contacts T directly to raise a fraud dispute if she remains concerned 
shes been a victim of fraud. 
Lowell has confirmed that if Miss D raises a dispute directly with the original lender that is 
upheld and its subsequently asked to return the debt by T, it will comply with the request. 
And Lowells confirmed that if T agrees the debt came about by way of fraud and recalls it, 
its default will be removed from Miss Ds credit file. But that will only come about on the 
basis of a successful fraud dispute made by Miss D directly to T. 
In my view, Lowell has followed the right process. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss D, but I 
havent been persuaded that Lowells made a mistake or treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman