DRN-3469921
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) handled a claim on his 
personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a personal accident insurance policy underwritten by AXA. In 2019, unfortunately 
he had an accident and injured his right leg. He required surgery which was covered by AXA 
under his policy. 
Sadly the wound from his surgery didnt heal, so Mr G required another procedure - known 
as a free-flap procedure  to transfer a vein from his arm to his leg. This surgery was also 
covered by AXA. 
In September 2020 Mr G required a revision of the free flap to have it reconstructed because 
it was too bulky. AXA agreed to cover this reconstructive procedure under the terms of his 
policy. 
Mr G contacted AXA in December 2020 to say he needed surgery again to reduce the 
bulkiness of the reconstruction. AXA requested further information from Mr Gs surgeon then 
said they wouldnt cover the cost of this procedure. 
AXA said Mr Gs policy only covers the first reconstructive surgery following an accident, so 
this second procedure to reduce the bulkiness of the reconstruction wasnt covered. 
Mr G said it was down to his initial surgeons negligence that the reconstruction procedures 
were even required. He was also unhappy AXA didnt tell him at the time of the first 
reconstructive surgery that any further reconstructive surgery wouldnt be covered. So, he 
referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought AXA had applied the terms of 
the policy fairly so she agreed Mr Gs second reconstructive surgery wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked for ombudsman to review the case. In summary he said:
The surgery had to be done as the position of the skin was uncomfortable and he 
was unable to wear shoes. 
Had AXA made it clear to him a second procedure wouldnt be covered, he wouldnt 
have renewed his policy. And he couldve used the money to fund his surgery. 
So the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The relevant policy terms 
We do cover reconstructive surgery, but only in certain situations.
What is covered?
We will cover your first reconstructive surgery following an accident or surgery for
a medical condition that was covered by your membership. We will do this so long
as:
you had continuous cover with us before the accident or surgery happened; and
we agree the method and cost of the treatment in writing beforehand.
What is not covered?
We do not cover treatment that is connected to previous reconstructive surgery.
Have AXA handled the claim fairly? 
Im satisfied AXA have handled the claim fairly and that its not unreasonable for them to 
decline cover for the second reconstructive surgery. I say that because:
The policy terms are clear that AXA will cover the first reconstructive surgery  which 
is what they did here. 
There is an exclusion for any treatment connected to previous reconstructive surgery. 
The evidence shows Mr Gs follow up reconstructive procedure was needed because 
he was still in discomfort following the first reconstructive attempt on the flap a few 
months prior. 
I also note the treating surgeon said they often have to revise these types of 
procedures on several occasions. So, I dont think AXA have been unfair to apply to 
the exclusion for connected reconstructive surgery. 
I note Mr Gs comments that the second procedure was necessary, rather than 
reconstructive. Whilst I agree the evidence shows the second procedure was needed 
because Mr G was still unable to wear shoes, this doesnt mean AXA was unfair to 
look at this claim under the reconstructive surgery terms of the policy.
The medical evidence says the procedure was to continue to try and reduce the 
bulkiness of the reconstruction.  So, I think it was fair for AXA to apply the 
reconstructive surgery terms of the policy. 
Mr G has said AXA shouldve told him a second procedure wouldnt be covered when 
his first one took place. If they had, he said he wouldnt have renewed the policy and 
couldve used the funds to pay for the second procedure himself. I understand Mr Gs 
frustrations here, but it was his choice to renew the policy and he had access to the 
policy terms on what was and wasnt covered before he agreed to renew. So, I cant 
hold AXA accountable for Mr Gs decision to renew his policy. 
Mr G has also raised concerns about the initial surgery and medical advice he 
received. AXA has provided records to show the consultant Mr G used was 
recommended to him by his GP  not by AXA. And as our investigator has explained, this service can only look into the actions of AXA and if theyve acted fairly in their 
capacity of an insurer.  So, I wont be addressing of Mr Gs concerns around the 
medical service he received from the initial consultant he was referred to. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr G, but I but I dont think there are reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask AXA to accept this claim or refund his policy from the renewal. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman