DRN-4336399
The complaint
A limited company C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to prevent the loss
they suffered when they sent money to a Monzo account as a result of a scam.
C has used a representative to bring the complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just
refer to C rather than the representative.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In September 2021 C was the victim of a
scam. C sent a payment to a Monzo account, believing it to be for the supply of goods from
an online retailer B  but later learned that this was all a scam. The payment in question
credited the Monzo account as £15,588 on 2 September 2021. The payment was sent from
Cs account with its own bank which is based outside the UK.
Monzo say that in November 2021 they received an email from Cs representative informing
them that the payment received by their accountholder was as a result of a scam. They also
later received notification from Cs bank requesting a recall of the funds.
Ultimately Monzo declined to provide any reimbursement or to share further information
about their accountholder. The complaint was considered by our service and one of our
Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. C didnt accept this outcome and asked
for an Ombudsman to make a decision.
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for C, so Ill explain why. But as Im providing a 
greater level of detail, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Firstly, I accept that C have been the victim of a scam. But that doesnt automatically entitle
them to a refund from the bank that received their funds. It would only be fair for me to direct
Monzo to make a payment to C, if they are responsible for failures that otherwise would have
prevented the loss.
I also understand that C are unhappy with the level of detail our service has provided. And
they are likely to remain unhappy with the detail contained within my decision. Our service is
able to accept evidence in confidence to allow us to perform our function (informal complaint
resolution). But it doesnt follow that we are able to share a third partys personal information
directly with C. Neither can we share potentially commercially sensitive information (which
includes some of Monzos internal policies).
Here, I can see that Monzo correctly followed its process when opening the recipient
account. Ive seen a copy of the valid UK driving licence that they took along with a still from
the video selfie provided by the accountholder. So Im satisfied Monzo took appropriate proof
of identity from their customer, and I dont think at the time of opening the account they
reasonably could have known that the account would later be used in connection with a
fraud or scam. So, I dont think Cs loss was caused by anything Monzo did regarding the
opening of the account. C seem to believe that the account Monzo opened was in the name
of B (the business that the scammer was impersonating), but I can confirm that wasnt the
case and the recipient account was a personal account in the name of an individual. So
whilst C have suggested that account opening requirements are more stringent for a
business, that doesnt apply here as the account was not a business account.
Ive also looked at the activity on the account and have considered Monzos obligations to
monitor the same. Following the arrival of Cs funds in the account, there was an outgoing
payment of around £4,000. This triggered an intervention by Monzos account monitoring
system. They asked their customer about the incoming payment. They were told that this
was for an international sale of electrical goods, and some evidence was provided showing
where their customer had sourced those goods. Monzo have been able to show us the text
messaging between them and their customer around this but not the images that were
included.
Following on from this, Monzo accepted what they had been told and allowed the account to
continue. Cs remaining funds were then spent in the week or two that followed (and they
were all certainly spent by the end of September 2021).
I dont think this was unreasonable. Monzo correctly identified potentially suspicious activity.
And I think the decisions taken at the time were reasonable based on the information
available to them. The scammer was able to convince C to part with a significant sum of
money and this was a scam with a certain level of sophistication. I think, on balance, its
most likely in these specific circumstances that even if Monzo had asked for more, it
wouldve been provided. The evidence is clear that the accountholder was prepared to
engage with Monzo and to provide evidence to support their version of events. Part of the
online chat from the time with Monzo included the accountholder saying: If you need any
further information just ask Maybe if we had a phone call this would be resolved a lot
sooner.
I note that the fake invoice included that the account name was B, the business being
impersonated. But Ive not seen any evidence stating that B were the intended beneficiary
amongst the information transmitted with the payment. Thats not to say it wasnt and it
potentially could be due to C being based in a country whose language doesnt use the 
same alphabet as the UK. But even if it could be shown that C had included B as the
intended beneficiary for the payment, whilst I would agree that this would add to the picture
that something was potentially amiss  it wouldnt change my mind overall. I say this
because a beneficiary name mismatch doesnt automatically mean that a payment is
fraudulent or that it has been made as a result of a scam. It would still require the recipient
bank to carry out an investigation and here for the reasons set out above I think its most
likely the accountholder would have plausibly explained this to Monzo at the time.
The first notification Monzo had of a potential problem with the payment was on
30 November 2021. And in the circumstances of this complaint, until there was a notification
of fraud, I dont think Monzo accepting what their customer had said was unreasonable or
unfair. I dont think they had sufficient reason to block the account indefinitely at the time
they were investigating. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Monzo to have contacted
an international bank in these circumstances to confirm the nature of the payment. Overall, Ithink Monzo complied with its obligations to monitor the account and I cant fairly say that
there were failures which caused Cs loss.
Monzo have also confirmed that they hadnt received any other notifications of fraud in
relation to this account, prior to Cs funds being spent. The evidence shows that all of Cs
funds were spent from the account by the end of September 2021. So when Cs rep (and
later their bank) reported the fraud, there were no funds remaining to be returned. Given the
money was already gone, I likewise dont think there were failures by Monzo regarding
recovery efforts.
There also isnt any basis upon which I can direct Monzo to share with C where the funds
were sent on to / spent, or details of its accountholder. I dont agree with Cs suggestion that
the legitimate interest basis of information sharing under General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) means Monzo should share this information directly with C. Im confident
that Monzo would co-operate fully with any police investigation and would respond
appropriately to any information requests from the relevant authorities.
C make the point that our service has made a public commitment to diversity and equality,
and they believe this means that their representatives costs should be awarded against
Monzo. I dont think there is any reasonable basis upon which I can direct Monzo to pay C
the costs it has incurred in using a representative to bring the complaint. This was a choice
by C, and it is not a requirement to use our service. This is especially the case where Im not
intending to find there were errors by Monzo which caused Cs loss. I dont believe this
finding to be in conflict with our services stance on diversity and equality.
Im of course sorry to hear C lost so much money to a scam. But as this isnt something I
think Monzo are responsible for, Im not intending to tell them to do more to resolve this
complaint.
C responded to my provisional decision with some comments that Ill address below. Monzo 
didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C attached to their response an lectronic Advice of Financial Transaction issued by their 
bank in relation to the payment that was sent to the Monzo account. This includes various 
details in both English as well as the language where C are based (which as Ive noted 
above doesnt use the English alphabet). It includes information such as the date, amount, 
beneficiary (that being B and their address) and details relating to fees and charges. C says 
that this evidences that information about B being the beneficiary would have been 
transmitted to Monzo in English, so they wouldve been aware of this.  
I covered in my provisional decision, that even if it could be shown that there was a 
beneficiary name mismatch, this wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of the 
complaint. And nothing C has submitted in response to my provisional decision has 
persuaded me otherwise. I maintain that, in this case, its most likely the accountholder would 
have plausibly explained this at the time. 
C also suggested I should take account of the fact that the transaction amount was 
significant, the fact that it was received internationally and the information Monzo held about 
the accounts transaction history. Ive confirm Ive considered all these factors when reaching my decision. But it isnt in dispute that it was reasonable for Monzo to question the account 
activity. The evidence supports that they did so. 
C again reiterated that they believe their legal fees should be awarded against Monzo. 
Theyve highlighted the time taken by our service to reach a resolution and the level of 
involvement required by their representative. I have nothing to add on this point beyond what 
Ive previously explained in my provisional decision. And Im not going to make an award 
against Monzo to cover any fees C have incurred as a result of their decision to use a 
representative to bring their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman