DRN-2231728
The complaint
Mr J complains about how his account was managed by TSB Bank plc after hed asked it to
stop making certain payments, and to freeze the account.
What happened
Mr J has been in prison since November 2017. He said that before he went away, he wrote
to TSB to ask it to put a hold on his account. He also cancelled his car insurance. But his
insurer claimed payments under a direct debit in September and in December. The direct
debit was also claimed, but returned unpaid, in October and November.
Mr J also complains that his account was then closed by TSB. He said he hadnt agreed to
that. He said that some specified family members had permission to access his account.
TSB said it had never received a request to put Mr Js account on hold, or any notification
that he was going to prison. Thats why the direct debit was paid. TSB said Mr J had
requested a change of address on 6 February 2018, but that letter wasnt signed. A further
letter was sent on 22 February 2018, asking for all interest and charges to be frozen. Monies
were still being credited to the account after Mr J was sent to prison, and money was still
being taken out using his cashcard until February 2018. If Mr J was in prison then, and
letting someone else use his card, then hed breached the terms of his account.
TSB said it had made several attempts to contact Mr J before it closed his account, because
of the overdrawn balance. TSB said that it had refunded all charges in December 2018, that
left an overdrawn balance which TSB wrote off and closed Mr Js account.
Our investigator said TSB had shown that Mr J cancelled his direct debit to the car insurance
firm long before he went to prison. Hed done that on 5 September 2017 in a branch. So our
investigator said that direct debit payments to the insurer from September onwards shouldnt
have been made by TSB.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that Mr J had asked for the whole account
to be put on hold. And hed intended to allow specified family members to continue to access
it. So our investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong by not putting the account
on hold.
Our investigator said that the closure of Mr Js account was a commercial decision by TSB,
and our service doesnt generally interfere with that, so he wouldnt ask TSB to reopen the
account.
Our investigator said that TSB should refund the money taken from Mr Js account under the
cancelled direct debit, which totalled £637.47. And it should refund any unarranged overdraft
interest and fees, as well as returned item fees, directly associated with the direct debit to
this insurer after 5 September 2017.
Mr J was happy to accept that. He didnt want TSB to reopen his account. But TSB said it
wouldnt accept it.
TSB said that it had cancelled the direct debit, and the insurer mustve put it back on. It had
the right to do that, as Mr J owed it this money. And TSB said that the money paid into Mr Js
account was made up of benefits, which it thought should probably have stopped when Mr J
went into prison. TSB said it couldnt get the money back from the insurer now, because Mr
Js account was closed, and it suggested he should do this himself.
Our investigator still thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr J had
cancelled his direct debit with TSB, and so subsequent debits werent authorised by him.
Our investigator said it wasnt for TSB to decide whether Mr J actually owed the insurer
money or not. Under the direct debit guarantee, once Mr J notified TSB of the error, it
shouldve paid him back the money straight away. Our investigator still thought that TSB
should pay Mr J back all the money it had paid under this cancelled direct debit after 5
September.
TSB still disagreed. it said that it didnt dispute Mr J had cancelled his direct debit, but the
insurer had reinstated it. And it couldnt apply the direct debit guarantee, because that only
applies for 13 months, and Mr J didnt complain until 17 months after the payment was
made.
Because TSB didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr J says he asked TSB to put his account on hold. TSB says it didnt get a letter 
about that. And Mr J says he wanted specified family members to be able to use the 
account. So I dont think TSB made a mistake when it didnt put the account on hold.
But TSB knows Mr J did go into a branch and ask it to cancel his direct debit to his 
insurer. All that a customer is obliged to do to cancel a direct debit, is to tell their 
bank not to pay it any more. Its a good idea also to tell the business claiming the 
money, but thats not required. So Mr J did all he was required to do to cancel this 
direct debit to his insurer, when he told TSB not to pay it any more.
Although Mr J cancelled his direct debit in early September 2017, a payment was still 
successfully claimed under the direct debit later that month. TSB says that the 
insurer must have set up a new direct debit, which it would be able to do if it had an 
existing valid mandate. But thats not right. The direct debit guarantee says this 
Money shouldn't be collected from your account after you have cancelled the 
Direct Debit and, under the Scheme rules, an organisation would have to 
obtain your authority to reinstate a cancelled Instruction.
Theres no suggestion that the insurer got Mr Js agreement to reinstate the direct 
debit. It doesnt seem likely that the money was validly claimed under the direct debit 
scheme.
When money is taken under the direct debit scheme which shouldnt have been paid, 
the customer may be able to claim under the direct debit guarantee. The direct debit 
guarantee website says this If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, you should contact 
your bank or building society who are responsible for giving you a full and 
immediate refund - even if the original error was made by the organisation 
collecting the payment.
TSB says that the direct debit guarantee doesnt apply, because Mr J didnt complain 
within thirteen months of the payment. But the information Ive been able to find 
makes no mention of any time limit on this guarantee. (There is a rule that if a direct 
debit isnt used within thirteen months, it will lapse, but thats not relevant here.)
I think TSB should repay the money taken under the direct debit, after it was 
cancelled by Mr J in early September. Thats £637.47. And TSB should also refund 
any interest or charges which were applied as a result of this direct debit not being 
properly cancelled before the September 2017 payment was taken, if it hasnt done 
so already.
Mr J says he no longer wants to complain about his account being closed. For the 
avoidance of doubt, if Mr J wanted to pursue this, then I would say that TSB was 
entitled to close Mr Js account, with appropriate notice. Particularly as hed breached 
the terms of the account by letting someone else use his card.
TSB has repeatedly said that some of the money taken from Mr Js account was 
benefits, which it doesnt think he shouldve been paid. It appears as if TSB thinks 
this is relevant to whether it should pay the direct debit money back.
I dont know if there has been an overpayment of benefits in Mr Js case. If there has, 
then Id expect that Mr J would need to pay that money back in future. I dont think 
that affects what TSB has to do in this case to provide a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB replied to disagree. Mr J didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB asked where the figure of £637.47 came from. We explained that this included all 
amounts taken by Mr Js insurers after he asked TSB to cancel the direct debit at the start of 
September 2017. Thats £149 in late September, and £488.47 in late December. 
TSB said that the first payment was due to be paid anyway, because Mr J wasnt in custody 
until November. I explained in my provisional decision that the reason I thought TSB should 
pay this money back to Mr J was because hed asked it to cancel the direct debit. but money 
was still taken after that. I dont know if this was TSBs mistake, or the insurers mistake. But 
that doesnt matter for these purposes. As I explained, the effect of the direct debit 
guarantee is then that TSB has to pay back money taken under this direct debit to Mr J. 
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed. Because 
Mr Js current circumstances have an impact on the speed of communications with him, Ill 
give Mr J longer to let us know if he accepts this decision. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr J the money taken under two direct debit 
payments after the direct debit was cancelled, totalling £637.47. It should also refund any 
interest or charges which were applied as a result of this direct debit not being properly 
cancelled before the September 2017 payment was taken, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman