DRN-3072487
The complaint
Mrs S has said SN Marketing Services Limited, trading as My PPI Refund (My PPI Refund) 
acted for her without her authority. This was in relation to a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. Ms S is also unhappy that My PPI Refund are contacting her in relation to fees it 
says she owes it.
What happened
Mrs S has explained that in July 2020 she received a letter from My PPI Refund, noting she 
owed it £679.58. The letter said this was My PPI Refunds fee, for work it had completed to 
secure her a refund for mis-sold PPI. 
Mrs S was surprised to receive this letter. She said she hadnt engaged My PPI Refund to 
work on her behalf. She had PPI on other financial products and had always pursued mis-
sale claims in relation to this herself. So, Mrs S contacted My PPI Refund to question the 
matter.
My PPI Refund said Mrs S had engaged its services in relation to mis-sold PPI against a 
lender, who Ill call A. My PPI Refund said the claim against A had been successful  and 
gained Mrs S a settlement of £2,532.12. So, it said its fee was due. But Mrs S expressed 
concern that she did not ask for My PPI Refund to act on her behalf and asked for evidence 
that she had in fact done so. 
A letter of authority, and terms of engagement, signed electronically, were provided to Mrs S, 
with My PPI Refund noting that Mrs S has signed up to its services online, and that she had 
signed these documents in August 2019. 
However, Mrs S remained concerned. She said she hadnt signed these documents and 
wouldnt have done this online  as she wasnt comfortable with computers. So, she 
maintained the position that she hadnt engaged My PPI Refund, and didnt owe it any 
money. But Mrs S has said she continued to receive letters chasing her for payment. And 
she found the communication she had with My PPI Refund to be aggressive and 
threatening, noting court action would be taken against her.
Mrs S raised a formal complaint  and My PPI provided a response to this. It said the 
signatures had been provided by Mrs S. And it noted that if the lender the claim was against 
would have raised the issue, if the signatures it had for Mrs S were different to the ones on 
the consent forms supplied. But, it didnt  highlighting there was no discrepancy there. It 
also said it had listened to a call between it and Mrs S. It felt Mrs S had clearly engaged it, 
and so the fee was still due.
My PPI Refund apologied that Mrs S received threatening letters and abuse over the 
phone. And said that Mrs S concerns would be fed back to the relevant department. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with My PPI Refunds response. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered that the documents provided to him showed Mrs S had engaged My PPI Refund 
 and the call between the two parties highlighted that too. So, he didnt recommend that My 
PPI Refund did anything differently.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt our investigator believed My PPI Refunds information above 
hers, and she highlighted that she didnt sign the forms. She said the signature bore no 
resemblance to her own, she wasnt computer literate, and so didnt sign the forms. She said 
she had recently received a letter from My PPI Refund saying it would be moving the case 
forward, through a debt collection agency. 
Because Mrs S disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
My PPI Refund has said that Mrs S would have gone online and signed up to use its 
services. Given this, I asked My PPI Refund to provide information of the process online, 
and what would lead to it being engaged to work on a customers behalf.
My PPI Refund responded and said that because the ability to claim for mis-sold PPI is no 
longer possible it doesnt have the relevant system to provide anymore. Or screen shots of it. 
So, I havent been able to see exactly what Mrs S would have seen when visiting the 
website, if indeed she did.
In circumstances like this, I need to consider what is most likely in the circumstances. And, 
whilst I understand Mrs S cant recall, and says she didnt complete any application or sign 
any forms online, Im satisfied the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she did 
visit the website and engage My PPI Refund. 
Ive seen a letter of authority, and a terms of engagement document, both of which have 
been signed with Mrs S name. And, the form provides details that Mrs S would need to give 
to My PPI Refund herself for it to be aware of  such as her name, home address, email 
address, date of birth and information that she took a loan out with A. So, I think its likely 
she gave these. 
Mrs S has noted she isnt computer literate enough to sign her name online. She says 
someone must have forged her signature instead. And she has asked this service who it 
was. 
I understand Mrs S concern here. But I havent seen anything to suggest My PPI Refund did 
anything wrong in respect of these documents, either it how it gained these, or by accepting 
these when provided with them. And I dont think there was anything within these documents 
that would have given My PPI Refund cause for concern that Mrs S didnt sign them when 
receiving these.  
On receiving these documents, My PPI Refund then pursued a claim against A for mis-sold 
PPI. And given the documents it had received, this seems reasonable to me. 
Ive also listened to a conversation between Mrs S and My PPI Refund. In October 2019, My 
PPI Refund called Mrs S and said to her that it had found PPI with lender A. Mrs S didnt 
raise any concerns during this call  including in respect of who My PPI Refund were, or that she didnt sign up to use its services. Instead, a brief questionnaire was completed about 
Mrs S circumstances at the time the PPI was sold. 
When asked, Mrs S provided information about her employment status (Mrs S said self-
employed), and whether she had any savings (she said she may have). And Mrs S asked 
how much money she might be getting  and the adviser said she didnt know at this time, 
and they would pursue the claim. 
Given that no concerns were raised during the conversation, and that Mrs S actively 
engaged with the caller, I dont think this call would have given My PPI Refund any cause for 
concern either. Instead, it acted as per the documents, and the conversation it has with Mrs 
S herself.
Mrs S has raised that during this call, the adviser noted it would send some forms out to her 
to sign and send back. And she thought this didnt make sense  because according to the 
signed documents, she had completed them in August 2019. But she was being asked to 
send forms back two months later, in October 2019. Ive considered this point. 
My PPI Refund has noted it will sometimes send documents in the post, if the relevant 
lender doesnt accept the virtual signature. But that lender A did accept the signature in this 
case. Looking at the documents Ive been provided with, I cant see that lender A questioned 
the signature provided or asked for a physical copy. Instead, lender A liaised with My PPI 
Refund, based the letter of authority it had received. I think this is a reasonable explanation 
for the contents of the call with Mrs S. And, given what Ive said about My PPI Refund 
receiving a letter of authority and terms of engagement, I dont think this point makes any 
different to the outcome of this case.
Given the above, I dont think My PPI Refund did anything wrong in pursuing the claim on 
Mrs S behalf. I also do think My PPI Refund has acted reasonably in saying its fee is due. 
The claim was successful. And the terms of engagement signed did note that if a claim was 
successful, My PPI Refund would charge 20% plus VAT as its fee. 20% plus VAT is what My 
PPI Refund has invoiced for in this case. As this is in line with the terms and conditions, Im 
satisfied its entitled to charge this.
Mrs S has said she had no need for a claims management company  she has always 
pursued claims for mis-sold PPI herself. But whilst that may be the case, My PPI Refund 
were engaged for this one. And it did do work which resulted in a successful PPI claim being 
made. So, Im not requiring My PPI Refund to waive its fee.
Mrs S has also said that My PPI were threatening and aggressive in the way it has pursued 
its fee. Ive looked at the letters it sent to Mrs S, and listened to some call recordings. The 
letters did note that the fee was due, and that court action or would be taken should it not 
receive payment. And the funds owing was discussed on the phone. But I dont think this 
was said in a threatening or aggressive manner either in the letters or on the phone but 
instead noted the consequences of not paying  which I would expect to have been made 
clear, so Mrs S knew where she stood.
My PPI Refund has said it has given Mrs S feedback to the relevant department. And given 
it has taken on board Mrs S comments in doing this, Im satisfied thats fair. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont require SN 
Marketing Services Limited, trading as My PPI Refund, to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman