DRN-1515434
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank Plc transferred his account between debt collection agencies. 
Hes also unhappy with how his complaint was dealt with.
What happened
Mr D held a credit card with Lloyds. After his credit card defaulted Lloyds took the decision to 
appoint a debt collection agency (DCA), which Ill refer to as W here in this decision, to 
recover the balance owed by Mr D. Around six months later Lloyds decided to appoint a 
different DCA. Ill call the second DCA M. 
Mr D said hed been in contact with W after it had taken over his debt on Lloyds behalf. He 
said hed even made an offer of £3000 to settle the balance, which was declined by Lloyds 
as it was only 25% of what he owed. Mr D said he felt he was in communication with M. So, 
it was unfair of Lloyds to appoint a different DCA. In order to recover the balance of his 
account. And he complained.
When Lloyds responded to Mr Ds complaint it informed him its decision to transfer his 
account from W to M had been a business decision following his account being with its 
Recoveries department. It explained that when an account enters its Recoveries department 
it may review the status of the account at any time and decide how to collect the outstanding 
balance using DCAs. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong and it didnt uphold Mr 
Ds complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint Mr D referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and thought Lloyds had acted fairly and 
reasonably. They were satisfied it had acted in line with the terms of Mr Ds account. And 
they didnt think it had made an error in transferring his debt between W and M. So they 
didnt recommend upholding this complaint But Mr D disagreed and asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr D and Lloyds that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr D experienced. And I can appreciate that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience when his account was transferred from W to M. But the 
issue here is whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and Lloyds 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ds account explain in clear intelligible language 
that Lloyds can appoint DCAs to assist it in collecting outstanding customer balances. Its 
common practice for businesses to take this action where a customer hasnt made a 
payment for some time and their account has entered into Recoveries so that agents can 
take over, as they are generally more able to be more flexible with the payments and 
amounts theyre able to accept without any further charges or interest being applied. 
I recognise that Mr D was unhappy a DCA was appointed here. But, in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Mr D was warned Lloyds may employ third 
parties to try and recover what it was owed.
I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy with Lloyds decision to transfer his account from W to M. 
But, based on the evidence Lloyds has provided our service, I can see this was prompted by 
the fact that, after it declined Mr Ds offer of £3000 to settle his balance, no further offers 
were made. I understand a decision was taken to transfer Mr Ds account from W to M 
around five months after that date given that it was unable to arrange a mutably acceptable 
payment arrangement with Mr D.
Its reasonable for Lloyds to review the status of a customers account after it enters its 
Recoveries department as Mr Ds did here. And its also reasonable for Lloyds to appoint a 
new DCA to manage a customers account in circumstances where a DCA has been 
unsuccessful in reaching an agreement with a customer as to how a debt should be repaid.
Lloyds decision to transfer an account from one DCA to another is a commercial decision 
its entitled to make. And its not a decision our service would interfere with. It appears Mr D 
wants our service to ask Lloyds to reappoint W to deal with his account. But were not the 
regulator of banks.  So, we cant tell Lloyds to change how it deals with transferring debts 
among DCAs. But, impartially I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds treated Mr D unfairly here.
Finally, I understand that Mr D has expressed concerns regarding how Lloyds has dealt with, 
and responded to, his complaint. Im not seeking to downplay the difficulties or frustrations 
he had here  far from it. But, as our investigator has explained, we dont have the power to 
look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated 
activity under the legislation that governs our service. This means that, even if I did think 
Lloyds hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mr 
Ds concerns or make an award. So, I wont address this part of his complaint any further.
I understand Mr D feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the 
reasons already outlined I think Lloyds has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can 
to resolve this dispute. I realise Mr D will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to 
an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman