DRN-3809395
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (Paypal) wont refund transactions 
made on her account which she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
A representative acting for Mrs N brought the complaint on her behalf  Ill refer to this 
individual as F. While the Paypal account is in Mrs Ns name, most of the submissions have 
been made by F and F has told us that she made the transactions that are being disputed by 
Mrs N.
F says that in March 2022 she was contacted by someone she knew from school. She says 
they initially contacted her via a social media app but asked for her phone number  which 
she gave them. Ill refer to the individual that contacted F as G. 
F says G told her they needed money, but she didnt have any. However, F says that G 
knew Mrs N had a Paypal account and told F to use that to send him money. When F 
refused to do so, G threatened to send someone around to her house.
On 22 March 2022, F sent G £360 from Mrs Ns Paypal account. But G said he hadnt 
received the money and suggested F send it in smaller amounts. So, F made a further six 
payments on the same day, totalling £360. In total, F sent G £720 from Mrs Ns Paypal 
account.
Mrs N saw the transactions and raised a fraud claim with Paypal on 25 March 2022, saying 
she didnt recognise the transactions and hadnt authorised them. However, F later admitted 
to Mrs N that she had made the payments. 
Paypal considered Mrs Ns request but declined to refund her. They said there were no signs 
that her account had been accessed by a third party, and that the transactions had been 
made from an IP address consistent with previous undisputed transactions.
Mrs N wasnt happy with Paypals response, so a complaint was brought to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mrs Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded the payments made on Mrs Ns Paypal account were so unusual or out of 
character that they wouldve expected Paypal to intervene before processing the payments. 
And, while Paypal had tried to recover the money for Mrs N, no funds remained by the time 
Mrs N raised her fraud claim.
Mrs N didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm like Paypal are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises. However, there are circumstances 
where I would expect a firm to be on the lookout for highly unusual or suspicious payments 
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And in those circumstances, I may expect 
a firm to intervene to help protect its customers from suffering a loss.
Im conscious that a Paypal account is used differently to how a standard bank account may 
be. Paypal accounts can be used for multiple transactions to different and new payees, or for 
one-off larger transactions. And, having considered the disputed transactions made on     
Mrs Ns Paypal account, Im not satisfied that the transactions were so unusual or out of 
character that I wouldve expected Paypal to intervene. Therefore, I cant say Paypal acted 
unreasonably in processing these transactions or that they couldve prevented these 
transactions from being made.
But, Ive also considered whether the transactions were authorised by Mrs N. As Paypal can 
only Mrs N liable for the disputed transactions if she has authorised them. 
In order for F to make the transactions from Mrs Ns Paypal account, she wouldve needed 
log-in information as well as a password or other form of authentication  for example, some 
phones authenticate the log-in with face recognition or a passcode. And based on what F 
and Mrs N have told us, I think its more likely than not that Mrs N shared her security details 
with F which enabled F to use her account. I say this because I havent seen anything that 
suggests this information was obtained by F without Mrs Ns knowledge.
Ive also taken into account that the evidence provided by Paypal shows the IP address used 
to make the disputed transactions, matches one used previously for other transactions which 
arent being disputed.
I appreciate that the circumstances F experienced wouldve been very upsetting and that 
shes made the transactions because she was threatened.  Whether or not Mrs N is entitled 
to a refund, depends on whether she authorised the transactions made by F  not whether 
they were made as part of a scam. In this case, as I think its more likely than not that Mrs N 
shared her security details with F to enable her to use her account, Im satisfied that Mrs N 
has authorised the transactions and therefore Paypal can hold her liable for them.
From what Ive seen, Mrs N didnt report the fraud until two days after the transactions were 
made and Paypal have confirmed that by that time  no funds could be recovered. So, Im 
satisfied that Paypal took appropriate steps to try and recover the funds for Mrs N.
Im really sorry to disappoint Mrs N, but I cant fairly ask Paypal to refund her for these 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman