DRN-3785218
The complaint
Mr T complains TSB Bank plc transferred money from his account to the wrong person and 
wont refund him. He also complains about the way he was spoken to.
What happened
Mr T has an account with TSB.
Mr T says he tried to transfer just over £100 to his partner but a glitch at TSBs end meant it 
got sent to a friend instead. Mr T says he noticed straightaway and contacted his friend. He 
says they told him that they couldnt return the money as they were severely overdrawn. So, 
he contacted TSB complaining that thered been a glitch at its end and asking for a refund. 
He says TSB told him there hadnt been a glitch and that hed have to wait five weeks for his 
money to be returned. Mr T complained about this, and the way hed been spoken to.
TSB looked into Mr Ts complaint and said it hadnt done anything wrong. TSB said that 
there hadnt been a glitch at its end. TSB said it had nevertheless contacted his friends bank 
in an attempt to get his money back. But it hadnt been successful as his friends account 
had insufficient funds in it.
Mr T complained to us saying that TSBs response wasnt good enough. He said that it 
wasnt fair that he should be expected to pay his friends debt because of a TSB glitch.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
They said TSBs records showed Mr T had set up and approved a transfer to his friend  
TSB had acted on those instructions. TSB had contacted his friends bank in an attempt to 
get his money back after Mr T had complained, but its attempt to recover his money hadnt 
been successful. Mr T wasnt happy with our investigators recommendations and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has transferred money to both his partner and his friend before. Because of that its 
likely that they were both existing payees on his payee list at the time of this transfer. The 
names he used for them when he made those previous transfers began with B and A 
respectively. So, its likely they also appeared next to each other on his payee list at the time 
of this transfer.
TSBs records show that Mr T transferred money to his friend, and they also show that he 
contacted TSB very quickly to say that there had been a glitch. In the circumstances, I 
accept that Mr T intended to transfer £100 to his partner and think its more likely than not 
that he selected the wrong payee from his existing payees list when he made the transfer. 
Thats easy to do when two payees appear next to each other. I think that this explanation is 
far more likely than a glitch in TSBs systems that meant a transfer that Mr T had set up to 
go to his partner went to his friend instead. In other words, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr T made a mistake  albeit an understandable one.
TSB would have had no reason to suspect that Mr T had made a mistake when it made the 
transfer. In the circumstances, TSB did what Id expect it to do when Mr T contacted it to say 
the transfer was meant to go to his partner and not his friend. Namely, TSB used its best 
endeavours to see if it could recover Mr Ts money. Unfortunately, TSBs attempts to recover 
the money were unsuccessful as his friends account had insufficient funds in it. In the 
circumstances, I agree that this complaint shouldnt be upheld as TSB hasnt done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman