DRN-4123649
The complaint
Ms Z is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided incorrect information to another bank
which meant her instructions to transfer money from that other bank to Barclays were
unsuccessful.
What happened
In July 2022, Ms Z tried several times to transfer money from an account she held with
another bank to an ISA account she held with Barclays. The attempts were unsuccessful,
and Ms Z felt that this was because Barclays were providing incorrect information to the
other bank which caused the other bank to decline the transfers. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Ms Zs complaint and said they felt the transfers had been declined
because of incorrect information held by the other bank, rather than because of any mistake
of their own. However, Barclays did acknowledge that they hadnt raised Ms Zs complaint
when they first should have done, and they apologised to Ms Z and made a payment of £50
into her ISA account as compensation for any trouble or upset this may have caused. Ms Z
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt it was evident from the transfer
information Barclays had submitted to the other bank that it had been Barclays that had
provided incorrect information in those transfer requests. And so, they recommended that
this complaint be upheld, and that Barclays should pay a further £100 compensation to Ms Z
for the inconvenience and frustration shed incurred. Ms Z didnt feel the recommendation
put forwards by our investigator went far enough, and so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2023 as follows:
It seems clear to me that Barclays did provide incorrect information to the other bank 
as our investigator explained in their view of this complaint. And I note that Barclays 
havent attempted to dispute this point when responding to our investigators view.
So, the question therefore becomes whether the £100 compensation which our 
investigator recommended that Barclays should pay to Ms Z for the trouble and 
distress shed incurred here is a fair compensation amount.
Notably, Barclays have already paid £50 to Ms Z. But as per their complaint 
response letter, this £50 was paid in relation to Barclays not raising Ms Zs complaint 
when it first should have been raised, and so I consider that amount to be separate to 
the compensation Ill be instructing Barclays to pay here for the upset and 
inconvenience Ms Z has incurred arising from Barclays providing the incorrect 
information to the other bank.
Ms Z doesnt feel that the £100 amount is fair and reasonable in consideration of the 
time and effort that shes expended here, and she references her rate of hourly 
income as evidence of why a higher amount of compensation should be awarded.
I can appreciate Ms Zs position, but this service doesnt consider a persons hourly 
rate when assessing appropriate compensation amounts, and this is because this 
service doesnt consider any one persons time to be any more or less valuable than 
any other persons time. Instead, this service seeks to determine what a fair 
compensation amount is in a holistic manner, in consideration of the overall impact 
that the events in question have had on the complainant in question.
In this instance, after considering the time and effort Ms Z has had to expend here  
which is in part demonstrated by the several lengthy recorded telephone calls 
between Ms Z and Barclays that Ive listened to  as well as the evident frustration 
and distress that Ms Z has displayed when describing these events to this service, I 
dont feel that the £100 as recommended by our investigator is a fair compensation 
amount.
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint and 
instructing Barclays to make a payment of £250 to Ms Z, which I feel does provide a 
fair amount of compensation for the upset and frustration shes incurred here. And as 
explained above, this £250 is to be paid in addition to the £50 which Barclays have 
already paid to Ms Z.
Finally, Ms Z has expressed her dissatisfaction that Barclays have paid the £50 into 
her ISA account and feels that because shed already made her full ISA contribution 
for that financial year that this means Barclays have caused her to be in breach of 
ISA rules.
This service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt for me to declare that Barclays 
have or havent acted in a non-regulatory manner. But, from a fairness perspective, I 
dont feel that Barclays actions have potentially impacted Ms Z in the manner she 
fears here, and this is because I feel the additional £50 paid into her ISA can be 
easily and reasonably explained.
However, if Ms Z wishes, Barclays should withdraw the £50 from Ms Zs ISA account, 
along with any interest that £50 may have accrued (which Barclays should then write 
off) and pay the £50 in combination with the further £250 which Ive provisionally 
instructed above to an account of Ms Zs choosing.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms Z and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a 
final decision. Ms Z confirmed she was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
Barclays did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Ms Zs 
favour on the basis explained above. In her response to my provisional decision, Ms Z 
confirmed that she didnt want Barclays to remove the £50 from her ISA account, and so I 
wont be instructing Barclays to do so.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £250 to Ms Z to a current account of Ms Zs choosing.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman