DRN-3223375
The complaint
Mr C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim about 
storm damage to his garden wall under his home insurance policy.  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C says his garden wall was damaged by storm Ciara. He made a claim 
to RSA and it sent an assessor to inspect the damage. The business confirmed the claim 
was covered and recommended the wall be rebuilt. It estimated the cost at around £1,000. 
Mr C says he was asked to get quotes from local builders to carry out the work. 
Mr C says the quotes he received were for far more than the estimate RSA had advised, at 
around £5,000. He informed the business and it arranged for its own contractors to assess 
the job. Mr C describes the wall as L-shaped. The long section had been damaged by the 
storm. But the contractor identified pre-existing damage to the shorter section of wall. It 
couldnt guarantee the work to rebuild the damaged section only, as there was a risk the 
shorter section could collapse.
RSA offered Mr C a cash settlement for £1,076.54 after the £200 excess was taken. This 
was for the amount it estimated the repair of the storm damaged section of wall would cost it 
to complete. It says the pre-existing damage hadnt been caused by the storm in the shorter 
section of wall. It referred to pre-existing cracks showing footing settlement due to age, 
together with areas of frost damage to the mortar. 
RSA says the pre-existing damage was the result of an ongoing operating cause. It says this 
is excluded under the policy terms. It says because of this it will only offer the cost of the 
repair for the wall damaged by the storm. Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and referred 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He said the basic principle here is that RSA 
should put Mr C back in the position he was in just prior to the damage occurring. This 
meant carrying out repairs to both sections of the wall. 
He accepted RSAs contractor couldnt provide a guarantee for repairs to the storm 
damaged wall only. But didnt think a cash payment for the cost RSA would pay for the repair 
to this wall was fair. This is because we expect any repairs to be effective and lasting. RSA 
confirmed the repair proposed couldnt be guaranteed to last. Because of this the 
investigator said RSA should repair both sections of wall.
RSA disagreed. It says its only responsible for the storm damaged section of wall and 
maintained its offer of a cash settlement. Because an agreement couldnt be reached it 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain.
RSA accepted Mr Cs claim for his storm damaged garden wall. So, I dont need to 
consider whether he has suffered an insured loss. My remit here is to consider whether it 
was fair of RSA to settle the claim by only paying what it would cost its contractors to repair 
the storm damaged section of wall. 
The notes recorded by RSAs surveyor say, Wall damaged. Single skinned boundary wall. 
3 piers. Damage consistent with storm. Only dealing with the affected area. 
RSAs contractor visited the site when it was asked to assess the repair work. The records 
say:
..unable to carry out a repair to the damaged area only due to the condition of the wall. 
They would need to replace the full wall to provide a guarantee. We believe a cash 
settlement maybe the best option if the full wall cannot be replaced.
I have listened to an audio recording made by RSAs surveyor. He describes how the wall 
adjacent to the damaged wall is showing pre-existing damage unrelated to the storm. 
Specifically cracking due to movement of the footings, which he says arent covered 
under this claim.
I think RSA has reasonably shown the adjacent section of wall was already damaged prior 
to the storm. I also acknowledge its contractors opinion that a repair to this section of wall 
is necessary for it to guarantee the work.
The requirement for a guarantee is set out in the policy terms, which say:
Repairs carried out by our nominated contractors and insured under your Buildings Cover 
or Buildings Accidental Damage Cover are guaranteed for 12 months for their quality of 
workmanship. 
The policy terms explain how RSA will settle a claim, it says:
Well pay the cost of the work carried out to repair or replace the damaged parts of your 
buildings.
  
And:
How much we pay if you go ahead with repairs, and if you dont
Where repairs are carried out, the amount well pay will be either:
 the cost of the work if it was carried out by our nominated contractor, or
 the cost of the work based on the most competitive estimate or tender you got from your 
nominated contractors.
Well pay whichevers the lower amount.
Based on this I understand why RSA offered the settlement payment it did. But this doesnt 
reasonably resolve the problem for Mr C. 
I have thought about the principle that where a claim is accepted the insurer should aim to 
put the customer back in the position they were in, just prior to the loss claimed. And that where a repair is necessary, this should be effective and lasting. 
RSA confirms an effective and lasting repair cant be completed by rebuilding the storm 
damaged section of wall alone. Because of this an effective and lasting repair must mean 
that both sections of the garden wall have to be rebuilt. I appreciate the shorter section of 
wall was undamaged by the storm. But the only way to ensure that an effective and lasting 
repair is implemented is to repair both sections of wall. Because of this a fair and 
reasonable outcome means both sections of wall have to be repaired.
Having considered all of this, I dont think RSA treated Mr C fairly in offering a cash 
payment to repair the storm damaged section of wall only. I think a reasonable outcome in 
these circumstances is for RSA to arrange repairs to both sections of wall, in line with the 
policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
must:
arrange for repairs to be carried out to both sections of Mr Cs wall in line with the 
policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman