DRN-2705268
The complaint
Mr A and Miss C complain that Santander UK Plc blocked their joint account.
What happened
Mr A and Miss C had a joint account with Santander. Mr A represents Miss C in this 
complaint.
In December 2019 the account was blocked, and they were not told why, other than that the 
account would not be unblocked until Mr A visited a branch of Santander to verify his 
identity. He did this in August 2020, and the account was unblocked a few days later.
Mr A complains that the account should not have been closed in the first place, and that 
Santander failed to tell him the reason why. He says Santander effectively stole his money 
for its own ends. He said he had been abroad and so visiting a branch in the UK had not 
been possible. He accused the bank of racially discriminating against him.
Mr A also complained that Santander had stopped all of his direct debits and standing 
orders, even though there was enough money in the account to pay them, and that this had 
caused serious financial hardship. Later, he complained about letters he received from 
Santander, starting in August, telling him that he his account was overdrawn and that he 
should pay money into the account, which he says was impossible because of the block.
Santander said it had done nothing wrong. It shared its evidence with our service in 
confidence. Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, so Mr A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Paragraphs 9.3 and 9.4 of Santanders terms and conditions read as follows:
9.3 We must be satisfied of your identity and can refuse instructions if we doubt 
your identity. We may ask you to show identification, for example, when making an 
account withdrawal.
9.4 We can withdraw or suspend your cards, chequebook, PIN or Personal Security 
Details:
a) if we believe that this is necessary for security reasons;
b) to prevent suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of your  account  
These terms are normal for bank accounts, and I think they are reasonable. Banks have a 
duty to take precautions to protect their customers money. Sometimes these precautions 
will be inconvenient, but they are not intended to be, and having ones money stolen by a 
third party would also be inconvenient as well.
I dont think that asking a customer to visit a branch to verify his identity is an unreasonable 
thing for a bank to insist on. I appreciate that it would have been particularly onerous if Mr A 
was abroad at the time, but nevertheless, I am satisfied that Santander made this request in 
good faith. I am unable to share Santanders evidence with Mr A or to summarise it, but I can 
say that there is no evidence that Santander stole or intended to steal his money, or that it 
discriminated against him based on his race. I think Santander acted reasonably in placing 
the block. I also think that Santander did not have to give him any further reason beyond 
telling him, as it did, that it needed to confirm Mr As identity.
I have seen the account statements. They show that the direct debits continued as normal 
after the block. They are the reason the account eventually became overdrawn in July. 
There appears to have been one standing order which stopped; its not clear if that was 
because of the block. But I cannot agree that the effect of the block was to completely 
prevent use of the account, which continued to be used to pay bills.
I can also see that there was a credit to the account of £10 on 8 May 2020. So I dont accept 
that the block prevented payments from being made to the account. I therefore dont think 
there was anything wrong with the letters Santander sent to Mr A to tell him that his account 
was overdrawn and that he should make payments towards the balance.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021. Mr A may reply for both of them. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman