DRN-1683398
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when the 
mortgage valuation failed to tell them about the rising damp in the kitchen they bought using 
a mortgage from TSB. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a property using a mortgage from TSB. But they found out later that 
there was damp in the kitchen and said TSB was at fault as the mortgage valuation didn't 
mention it. Mr and Mrs F paid for the repair work to be carried out and said that their 
research about mortgage valuations said anything major would be mentioned if it affected 
the value of the property. They pointed out that the valuer had said a damp specialist report 
wasn't needed.
Mr and Mrs F complained to TSB. It said that Mr and Mrs F chose to only have a basic 
mortgage valuation carried out, and if they wanted more detail about the property they 
should've got a more detailed survey.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. The investigator's view was that TSB wasn't at fault. She 
said that Mr and Mrs F chose to only have a mortgage valuation carried out, and that wasn't 
the type of report which would report in detail. The investigator pointed out that the valuation 
was only for TSB's benefit.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs F carried out their own research about what type of valuation would 
meet their needs. TSB didn't advise them specifically about this point and it was Mr and Mrs 
F's choice to only have a basic mortgage valuation. I wouldn't regard rising damp of the type 
described by Mr and Mrs F to be so major that it would be mentioned in a mortgage 
valuation, which is a basic check. If the damp significantly affected the property, there is an 
option allowing the valuer to flag this, but mortgage valuations aren't the same as a survey - 
it's a valuation for the benefit of TSB. Mr and Mrs F weren't meant to rely on the valuation 
and treat it as a survey, which it wasn't as no detailed inspection was carried out.
And in any event, the valuer is a professional expert from an independent firm. While the 
report was prepared for TSB's benefit, it's fair and reasonable for a lender to rely on the 
advice of a professional. TSB isn't a valuer and isn't responsible for the actions of the valuer.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman