DRN-2265737
The complaint
Miss I complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined her claim on her motor 
insurance policy following the theft of her car. She wants it to pay her claim.
What happened
Miss Is car was stolen when the keys were left in the ignition. Admiral declined the claim 
due to the keys in car exclusion in the policy. But Miss I said her mother was close by the 
car at the time and was able to see the thief. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had unfairly declined the claim as, although the keys were in the ignition, the car wasnt 
unattended at the time of the theft. She thought Admiral should pay Miss Is claim and offer 
her £200 compensation for her trouble and upset.  
Admiral replied that the car wasnt in sight at all times. It thought it was left unattended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss I feels frustrated and distressed by Admirals decision. Shes 
explained that this has caused her financial hardship and much stress. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral relied on the keys in car exclusion in the policy to decline the claim. This is set out 
in the policy booklet on page 16 under General Conditions, 3. Care of your vehicle: 
You or any person covered by the policy must
remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is left 
unoccupied 
I think this is a common policy exclusion and I think it is clearly set out in the policy 
document. Its also included in the policy summary. The policy also warns that failure to 
adhere to the conditions would lead to a claim being repudiated. And so I think Admiral can 
reasonably rely on the policy exclusion to decline a claim. So Ive considered whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Admiral to apply the exclusion to Miss Is claim. 
Miss I described the circumstances of the theft in two phone calls to Admiral. She said her 
car and her mothers car were parked side by side in front of their house. Her mother started 
Miss Is car to warm it up and the key was left in the ignition. 
Miss Is mother was sitting in Miss Is car. But she got out, closing the door, to get something 
from her own car. She turned when she heard the engine rev to see a thief jump into Miss Is 
car and drive off. Miss I said her mother was a few metres from the car and had left it for 5 to 
10 seconds. 
Our approach is that we think its unfair for an insurer to reject a theft claim due to keys left in 
the car unless it can show that the car was left unattended. So we look to see if someone 
was in a position to deter a thief or make a theft unlikely. 
Miss I has consistently stated that her mother was with the car at the time of the theft. She 
didnt leave the car to go inside the house. Shed closed the door when she stepped out of 
the car. She was just a few metres away and she saw the thief. So I think Miss Is car wasnt 
left unattended at the time of theft. And so I think it was unfair for Admiral to rely on the 
exclusion to decline the claim. I think it should now deal with Miss Is claim for the loss of her 
car. 
The claim repudiation has caused Miss I distress and inconvenience. The investigator 
recommended that Admiral should pay Miss I £200 compensation for this. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I can see that 
Miss I had access to transport to work so I dont require Admiral to compensate her further. 
Putting things right
I think Admiral should now deal with Miss Is claim under the remaining terms and conditions 
of her policy and it should pay Miss I £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its unfair repudiation of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman