DRN-3845921
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr K complain that AXIS Specialty Europe SE has unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr K had travel insurance through Mr Ks employer, the policy is underwritten by 
AXIS. They travelled abroad for the summer in 2022, with a return journey scheduled for 
early morning on 2 September 2022. On 1 September 2022, Mr K received an email from his 
airline to advise that his flight had been cancelled due to strike action. As a result, Mrs G and 
Mr K incurred additional expenses such as hotel accommodation before they could return 
home three days later than planned. 
They made a claim to AXIS, but the claim was refused. AXIS said that the circumstances of 
the claim fell outside the policy terms as the flight had been cancelled, rather than delayed.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs G and Mr K complained to AXIS and brought the complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She found that AXISs decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on 
the policy coverage.
Mrs G and Mr K disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs G and Mr Ks complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mrs G and Mr K are wishing to claim for the additional expenses they incurred under the 
section of the policy that provides cover if your flight is delayed for longer than the specified 
number of hours.
AXIS has said that the policy doesnt provide cover for cancelled flights and so the 
circumstances of the claim dont meet the terms. The relevant section of the policy (Section 
9  Travel Delay or Abandonment or Emergency Return Home or Missed Departure or 
Return Journey Delay) states the following:
A. Delay at Point of Departure
If an Insured Person is delayed whilst on a Trip at any Point of Departure on the outward 
or homeward bound journey by at least 8 continuous hours from the time shown in the 
Trips official travel itinerary directly as a result of the delayed departure of an aircraft, 
coach sea vessel or train in which the Insured Person has arranged to travel whilst on 
that Trip due to: strike, industrial action, adverse weather conditions, civil unrest, traffic 
flow congestion or mechanical breakdown, the Insurer will pay:
GBP50 for the first full 8 continuous hours of delay at a Point of Departure and 
GBP25 for each and every full following period(s) of 5 continuous hours of delay 
at the same Point of Departure, up to the amount shown under Section 9 Sub-
Section A in the Schedule of Benefits.
It goes on to provide the following definition:
THE FOLLOWING SPECIFIC DEFINITION APPLIES TO SECTION 9 (IN ADDITION TO 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS)
Point of Departure
Means an airport or seaport or terminal or station.
Our investigator also referred to the following section which relates specifically to issues that 
occur on the return journey:
E. Return Journey Delay
If during a Trip the departure of the aircraft, sea vessel or train in which the Insured 
Person has pre-booked to travel for their return journey Home is delayed for at least 
one Full Day as a result of fire, lightning, explosion, volcanic eruption, tsunami, 
avalanche, storm, tempest, earthquake, hurricane, flood, medical epidemic, 
pandemic, Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) or 
Government directive Insurers will pay up to the amount shown under Sub-Section E 
in Section 9 in the Schedule of Benefits for:
(a) Alternative and necessary emergency accommodation costs (on a bed 
and breakfast basis only) incurred by the Insured Person, up to a maximum of 
GBP 100 per night (or equivalent in other currency);
(b) Alternative and necessary expenses incurred by the Insured Person 
outside their original travel arrangements to get Home, subject to:
i) car hire being limited to a maximum of GBP 250 or;
ii) the type of travel being limited to economy class for alternative 
travel on any train, coach, bus, boat or aircraft.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When looking at the travel delay section of the policy, I can see that cover is provided if the 
policy holder is delayed at the point of departure for one of the listed reasons  point of 
departure is defined as being the airport or seaport or other terminal or station. This means 
that, in order for cover to apply, Mrs G and Mr K needed to have already been at the airport 
when their flight was delayed. Mrs G and Mr K have provided an email from the airline, 
received on the morning prior to travel, in which it confirms the flight has been cancelled. As 
the flight was not delayed when Mrs G and Mr K were at the airport but was cancelled in 
advance (the day before), Im persuaded the decision by AXIS to refuse the claim under this 
section is fair and reasonable.Im aware that Mr K has subsequently provided a photograph which he says was taken when 
he arrived at the airport. The photo is of an airport departure board, and it appears to show 
that Mrs G and Mr Ks flight, which was due to depart at 2.50am, was still listed as on time, 
not cancelled. The date and time on the board shows as the day before the flight, just before 
11am. Mr K says this proves that he was at the airport when he received the email from the 
airline about the cancelled flight and so he should be entitled to claim.
Ive noted what Mr K has told us and considered the photograph provided very carefully. 
However, there does appear to be some inconsistencies. Firstly, the type font used for the 
date and time does not match the rest of the board and there appears to be an area on the 
photograph which has been blocked out. In addition, the board shows that check in had 
closed for flights that were not due to depart for another 12 hours  I dont think this would 
be the case. So, Im not persuaded that this photograph is evidence to show that Mrs G and 
Mr K had already arrived at the airport, nearly 16 hours prior to the time they were due to 
depart. 
Ive considered the other section of the policy wording referred to by our investigator  E. 
Return Journey Home  and I can see that this does provide cover for additional expenses 
incurred if you are unable to return home as planned due to various listed reasons. However, 
Mrs G and Mr K have said the flight was cancelled due to a pilot strike and this is not a 
covered reason listed in the policy terms. Therefore, Im satisfied that this part of the policy 
also doesnt provide cover.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there are any other sections 
which would consider Mrs G and Mr Ks claim, but the circumstances they found themselves 
in dont appear to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think Mrs G and Mr Ks claim is covered under the policy terms and 
conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask AXIS 
to accept this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that AXIS needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman