DRN-1125138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage in 1998.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied for mortgage in March 1998. At the same time, they applied for a PPI 
policy. The policy covered their mortgage - and would have paid £530 a month for up to 
24 months if Mr B had been off work sick. In 2001, the policy was amended so it also 
covered Mr B if he lost his job.
Mr and Mrs B think the policy was mis-sold. 
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
didn't agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr and Mrs B knew they had a choice to buy this policy. Mr and 
Mrs B have told me that they were convinced that they needed PPI just in case. It was only 
later that they realised they didn't need it. So I've thought about what happened alongside 
the other information I have about the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, Santander doesn't have any paperwork showing what 
happened when the policy was sold. But I don't think that's unreasonable given the sale took 
place in 1998. Equally, I'm mindful that the sale took place a long time ago and memories 
can and do fade with time. I also note that Mr and Mrs B later requested a change to what 
the policy covered. For these reasons, given the limited information, and given what Mr and 
Mrs B have said, I'm not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B didn't know they had a choice to buy 
the policy or agree to buy it.
Santander says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B. So I've thought about whether it 
was right for them. I think it was.  The policy would help repay Mr and Mrs B's mortgage if Mr 
B was off work sick - and later if he became unemployed. Based on what Mr and Mrs B said 
about their circumstances, Mr B doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didn't cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Though I 
recognise that Mr B might have received sick pay from his employer, this policy would pay 
out in addition to this. And while Mr B could have used savings, their mortgage was a major 
financial commitment and they risked losing their home if they couldn't keep up the 
repayments. So I think Mr and Mrs B had a need for this cover.Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs B the information they'd need to work out for 
themselves if they wanted the policy. It's possible this information wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But it looks as though Mr and Mrs B wanted this cover - and it seems it would 
have been useful to them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
don't think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
This means Santander doesn't need to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Santander says it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
    Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Santander 
didn't tell Mr and Mrs B, this was unfair.
    To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Santander will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs B now I've issued my final decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr and Mrs B's complaint about how the policy was sold. But Santander has 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs B the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman