DRN-4015417
The complaint
Mr A complained that Wheeler Wicks & Company (Wheeler Wicks) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his occupational pension to a personal pension plan. 
Mr A is represented in this complaint but, for ease, I will refer to all actions and comments as 
those of Mr A. 
What happened
Mr A met with a Wheeler Wicks adviser in June 1989 to discuss his pension options, as he 
had become self-employed. He was advised to set up a personal pension plan with 
contributions of £25 per month. 
Mr A again met with a Wheeler Wicks adviser in 1990 and was advised to transfer his 
occupational pension to a personal pension plan. The pension funds, valued at £4,779.03, 
were transferred in July 1991. 
Several years later, in 1994, the then Regulator set up an industry-wide review  known as 
the Pensions Review  of particular pension business carried out by authorised firms 
between 1988 and 1994. 
Wheeler Wicks wrote to Mr A in late December 1996 during phase 1 of the Pensions 
Review. The letter was entitled Review of Personal Pensions. The letter explained that the 
then Regulator was trying to establish whether some consumers should have their personal 
pension arrangements reviewed in order to establish if they received appropriate advice to 
transfer their benefits under an employers pension scheme to a personal pension plan. 
Wheeler Wicks said it would look into Mr As pension arrangements if he wasnt satisfied 
with the advice he received or was unsure whether the advice he received was correct. 
Wheeler Wicks again wrote to Mr A in early February 1997, as it hadnt received a reply to 
the December 1996 letter. It enclosed a copy of that letter and the relevant form to be 
completed if Mr A wanted his pension arrangements reviewed. Mr A didnt respond.  
Mr A complained to Wheeler Wicks on 18 September 2003 about the advice he was given to 
transfer his occupational pension to a personal pension plan. Mr A wrote to Wheeler Wicks 
on 30 September 2003 and provided it with a letter authorising it to seek information from 
relevant bodies that might be needed in relation to his complaint.  
Wheeler Wicks wrote to Mr A on 30 September 2003 and acknowledged his complaint. It 
said it would contact Mr A once the matter was fully investigated, and it expected this to 
happen within a two-month period. Wheeler Wicks asked Mr A to complete and return a 
document that would enable it to obtain information from third parties. 
Wheeler Wicks again wrote to Mr A on 24 November 2003. It said it hadnt received his 
signed authority letter. It said it couldnt complete its investigation because it was awaiting 
information from the product provider and the local authority. Wheeler Wicks told Mr A that 
its investigation into his complaint was continuing and it would contact him within four weeks, 
either with its response or to confirm how the investigation was progressing.
Mr A wrote to Wheeler Wicks on 1 April 2004 and asked for an update on his complaint. 
Wheeler Wicks did not respond.   
Mr A complained to Wheeler Wicks in June 2021. He told it he hadnt received an outcome 
to the complaint he raised in 2003.   
Wheeler Wicks responded to Mr As complaint in September 2021. It said it couldnt consider 
the complaint as it fell outside the time limits set under the Pensions Review regulations  
the deadline for complaints to be raised was 31 March 2000. It said Mr A didnt notify it of 
any concerns when he received the Pensions Review letters it sent in 1996. Wheeler Wicks 
said the Pensions Review process was carried out correctly. 
Mr A remained unhappy and so complained to this Service. He said he received letters from 
Wheeler Wicks in September and November 2003. Mr A said he chased up his complaint in 
April 2004 but heard nothing further. Mr A said he recently realised, when preparing for 
retirement, that his complaint from 2003 hadnt been dealt with. Mr A said Wheeler Wicks 
should compensate him for any shortfall that arose because of the pension transfer.  
Wheeler Wicks told our Investigator that it did not consent to this Service looking into Mr As 
complaint as it thought it had been made out of time. Our Investigator didnt agree. He said 
Wheeler Wicks hadnt issued a final response to the complaint in 2003, as it should have 
done, so the usual six-month timescale for referring the matter to this Service didnt apply.  
Wheeler Wicks didnt agree and said it complied fully with the terms of the Pensions Review 
and Mr A was offered the opportunity to have a review of his pension in 1996 and 1997. It 
said it should have pointed out in 2003 that Mr As complaint was time barred. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2023. I said I thought Mr As complaint was 
made in time and so was one this Service could look into. However, having looked at the 
merits of Mr As complaint, I said I didnt intend to uphold it. I said Mr A had been invited to 
take part in the Pensions Review, but didnt respond before the deadline of 31 March 2000, 
so I didnt think it would be fair to ask Wheeler Wicks to review the pension advice now. 
Mr A responded to the provisional decision and accepted what was said. Wheeler Wicks 
didnt respond. I am now in a position to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended to say I was satisfied the complaint was 
one that this Service had jurisdiction to consider. 
No additional comments or evidence were provided by either party after I issued my 
provisional decision, and so my position has not changed. This means Im satisfied Mr As 
complaint has been brought to this Service in time and is one we can consider.  
Turning now to the merits of Mr As complaint, I have decided not to uphold it. Ill explain 
why. Mr A was eligible to take part in the Pensions Review set up in 1994 by the then Regulator. 
Wheeler Wicks first wrote to him in December 1996 and invited him to take part in the 
review. When Mr A didnt respond it wrote to him again in February 1997. Ive seen copies of 
both letters and they are correctly addressed, and so I think its more likely than not Mr A 
received them. Mr A also didnt respond to the February 1997 letter.  
If a consumer doesnt respond to an invitation to take part in the Pensions Review, then I 
dont think it would be fair to ask a business to review the pension advice that would have 
been the subject of the review, once the deadline for taking part in the review passes. This 
deadline was 31 March 2000. 
If Mr A had responded and Wheeler Wicks had completed the review in line with the then 
Regulators requirements, and calculations had been run to establish if hed suffered a loss 
at that time, Wheeler Wicks wouldnt now be required to revisit this matter. The Pension 
Review was a one-off exercise to compensate consumers where a loss was established and 
draw a line under the matter for both parties. So I think its fair to deal with consumers who 
didnt respond to the review invitation, and so opted not to take part in the review, in the 
same way. This means that Wheeler Wicks wouldnt have needed to look into Mr As 
complaint about the suitability of the advice he received when he made the complaint back in 
2003. So I dont think it would be fair to ask it to do anything further now. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr A, but I am not asking Wheeler Wicks to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman