DRN-2777395
The complaint
Mr H  on behalf of Company C  complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has 
unfairly declined its business interruption insurance claim.
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their insurance policy and handle complaints on their 
behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries.   
What happened
Company C holds a business protection policy with Aviva. A gas leak occurred in the vicinity 
of its premises in March 2018, which resulted in a large portion of its flooring having to be 
lifted up in order to release trapped gas and ventilate the property. This resulted in damage 
to Company Cs premises, so it made a claim under its policy for the material damage 
caused. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster and a total of £9,366.49 was paid in 2018 under the 
material damage section of the policy. 
Company C was not able to reopen until 31 December 2018 following the gas leak, so it 
submitted a business interruption claim in March 2019 for loss of revenue. However, no 
progress was made on the claim, so Company C complained to Aviva in October 2019 about 
the delays. Aviva issued their final response in December 2019 saying that there was no 
coverage for the material damage claim, nor the business interruption claim. They said that a 
gas leak was not an insured event under the policy, meaning they had wrongly indemnified 
the damage caused by this event, but said that they would not seek to recover the moneys 
paid. As a result, Aviva said the business interruption claim would not be covered either. 
They did acknowledge the unreasonable delay in reaching this decision, however, and 
offered £1,000 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Aviva had applied the policy 
terms fairly as the cause of damage was not covered, and therefore neither was the 
business interruption claim. Company C disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to 
determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2021. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I intended to uphold it, and set out the 
following reasoning: 
Material damage
Section A of the policy terms and conditions sets out the cover available for property 
damage:
We will compensate You in respect of Damage to the Property Insured at the 
Premises caused by the insured events in paragraphs 1-14 and if applicable 
in the Schedule, paragraphs 15 and 16.
Damage is defined under the policy as:
Physical loss or destruction of, or damage to, the Property insured.
Given that Company Cs floor tiles had to be removed as a result of the gas leak, Im 
satisfied that the property insured sustained damage in line with the policy definition. 
However, in order to be covered under the policy, the damage must have been 
caused by an insured peril. 
Aviva say that the prevailing cause of damage in this instance was a gas leak, which 
is not listed as an insured peril in paragraphs 1-14 of the policy. They also said that it 
couldnt be covered under the trace and access section of the policy, because gas 
leaks are not covered under this section either. 
I appreciate that gas leaks are not specified under the trace and access section of 
cover. But Company C was not claiming for assistance with tracing the cause of the 
gas leak; it was claiming for damage caused to its floor as a result of the gas 
company having to lift it to release trapped gas, so I do not consider the trace and 
access section of the policy to be relevant in these circumstances. 
I also acknowledge that a gas leak is not specifically listed in Section A of the policy 
as being an insured event. But Aviva do not appear to have properly considered 
paragraph 16 of the policy, which states that the insurer will also cover:
Damage from any cause which is not excluded by the terms, conditions and 
limitations of the policy (only applies if Accidental Damage is shown as 
operative in the schedule. 
Company C does benefit from accidental damage cover according to its insurance 
schedule, so paragraph 16 is an operative part of its coverage. This section of cover 
lists a variety of causes that are excluded, but does not specify a gas leak amongst 
them. Both Aviva and Company C appear to be in agreement that the proximate 
cause of damage (i.e. the floor being ripped up) was the gas leak, which I also accept 
as being the proximate cause in these circumstances. So, given that paragraph 16 
covers damage from any cause thats not excluded  and given that a gas leak is 
not expressly excluded under this section  I consider that Company Cs material 
damage claim was correctly covered in the first place, and that Aviva have therefore 
acted unfairly by subsequently purporting to repudiate cover under this section in 
order to decline the business interruption claim. 
Business interruption
The policy terms and conditions state that Aviva will cover:
Revenue
Loss of gross revenue resulting from Damage to property used by You at the 
Premises for the purpose of the Business to the extent of Cover under 
Section A  Property Damage and where liability is admitted under a policy of 
insurance covering your interest in such property.
Damage is defined under this section as being:
Physical loss or destruction of, or damage to, the property insured caused by 
one of the insured events under Section A  Property Damage that is shown 
as being operative in the Schedule for that section.So, given that the gas leak constitutes an insured event under Section A of the policy 
by virtue of paragraph 16, Im persuaded that it meets the requirements for cover and 
that Company C has prima facie valid claim for business interruption. I therefore 
intend directing Aviva to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions.
Company C say that Aviva should compensate it for any consequential losses 
caused by their poor handling and wrongful refusal of the business interruption claim. 
But while I appreciate there may be a valid case for such losses to be considered, 
this should initially form part of Avivas assessment of the overall claim. Company C 
should provide Aviva with details of all its losses it thinks are relevant as part of its 
claim. If it is subsequently unhappy with the settlement offered  or if Aviva refuse to 
cover any losses that may have been caused as a result of its handling of the claim  
then Company C can always raise this as a separate complaint and refer the matter 
back to this service for further consideration at that point. 
In terms of the delays and Avivas handling of the claim, I agree that the service 
provided by the insurer has been considerably poor. Company C initially made its 
business interruption claim in March 2019, and it took until December 2019 for Aviva 
to explain that it was not covering the claim. I appreciate this would have caused 
significant inconvenience to Company C, which was facing uncertainty for an 
unnecessary length of time. I also acknowledge that Avivas decision to wrongly 
repudiate cover for the material damage claim has caused further inconvenience. But 
Aviva have already offered £1,000 compensation for their poor handling of the claim, 
which I consider to be fair in the circumstances and a proportionate reflection of the 
inconvenience this has likely caused. So I do not intend making any further award of 
compensation. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my provisional 
decision. Company C accepted my provisional findings and had no further comments to 
make. Aviva failed to respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments to make, I see no reason to depart from 
the reasoning set out in my provisional decision above. I therefore uphold this complaint on 
the basis that Aviva has unfairly declined Company Cs business interruption claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider Company Cs business interruption claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions; and
Pay £1,000 compensation to Company C (if they have not done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H  on behalf 
of Company C  to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman