DRN-1872714
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined her claim on her home 
insurance. 
What happened
Mrs T had a home insurance policy with AXA. In September 2019 she made a claim 
following problems with the pump on her spa pit caused by water ingress. She explained this 
was the second time the pump had failed and had previously been replaced.
AXA arranged for a loss adjuster to visit Mrs Ts home to inspect the spa pit. Before this took 
place, Mrs T had arranged for her own engineer to inspect the damage. She provided a 
report from the engineer to AXA. The report suggested that the spa pit hadnt been built 
correctly and was allowing water to get to the pump. However she explained that parts of 
this report should be disregarded as she felt it was based on opinion and not fact. Further 
she said there had been heavy rainfall around both of the times the pump had broken, so it 
was this that had caused the problems.
After AXAs loss adjuster attended, it confirmed that the claim wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. It quoted a number of exclusions that applied including that the policy excludes 
damage cause by faulty workmanship. It said, given the spa pit had only been installed 
within the year and the pump had already failed twice, it cant have been sufficiently 
waterproofed when it was built. Further AXA said it had looked at weather reports from 
around the times of the pumps breaking and there had been rain but it hadnt been unusually 
heavy.
Mrs T didnt agree and complained, however AXA didnt respond in time so she brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that the evidence from both experts suggests that water got into the pump as the 
spa put hadnt been properly fitted. 
Mrs T didnt agree with this. She said our investigator had relied on information that was 
contained in the first report that she arranged. And she said the company who the engineer 
worked for had confirmed that he made incorrect comments in the report, so it should be 
disregarded. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T thinks AXA has unfairly declined her claim based on defective design. She says it 
relied on a report from an engineer and this has since been discredited by the engineers 
own company.I have considered how AXA handled the claim to decide if it has treated Mrs T fairly. It did 
rely on the report provided by Mrs T to begin with. And I think this was reasonable. The 
report was from a qualified engineer who worked for the company who makes the spa pits. 
So as this was an expert opinion, I think it was reasonable for AXA to take it into account. 
However AXA also instructed its own loss adjuster to go and inspect the damage as well and 
to get a second opinion. I think this was a fair approach, particularly as Mrs T had raised 
doubts about the accuracy of the first report.
I have looked at the report provided by AXAs loss adjuster. The main conclusion of the 
report is that excess rain water had got into the pit and caused the pump to fail. 
AXA has provided weather reports from the days and weeks leading up to the fault. From 
looking at these I can see that although there was rainfall, it wasnt unusually heavy. I 
therefore wouldnt expect this kind of weather to cause serious damage to the spa pit. As it 
would be reasonable to expect that the pit would be built with sufficient water proofing to 
ensure a regular amount of rain wouldnt cause severe damage.
The loss adjuster report also says that the tanking system either failed due to the excess rain 
water or because it wasnt installed properly. As AXA established the rain around that time 
wasnt excessive, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the failure of the pump was 
due to defective design or faulty workmanship. As it would be reasonable to expect the pit to 
withstand a usual amount of rain. As water has entered the pit, casing the pump to fail on 
two occasions within a year, it seems fair to deduce that the tanking system and 
waterproofing of the area the pump is stored in wasnt sufficient. 
Further, the loss adjuster report suggests that a waterproof chamber is inserted around the 
pump to protect against future instances. The fact that additional work needs to be carried 
out in order to ensure future problems, suggests the water proofing wasnt sufficient in the 
first place. I therefore think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that the damage was 
caused by defective design.
The policy states that cover is not provided for: faulty workmanship, defective design or use 
of defective materials. So I think AXA has acted fairly by declining the claim on this basis.
I appreciate Mrs Ts comments about the reliability of the report from the first engineer. 
However on considering how AXA have considered the claim, I think it would have come to 
the same conclusion based just on its own loss adjusters report. And for the reasons I have 
explained, I think this is reasonable. I therefore wont require AXA to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman