DRN-3475677
The complaint
Mr K complains about the actions of Barclays Bank UK Plc when he lost money to what he 
says was an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr K invested with a firm Ill refer to as F. He made a series of payments to fund his 
investment using his Barclays Visa debit card. Mr K says that F continually pressured him to 
make further payments and he had problems making withdrawals from his account. He 
concluded hed been the victim of a scam and asked Barclays to help.
Barclays raised a chargeback for some of the payments to F. F defended this and Barclays 
declined to further pursue the chargeback. Mr K complained and when Barclays maintained 
their position the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr K 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for the following reasons:
At the time of Mr Ks payments to them (and at the time of writing), F were regulated 
by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC). They were also (at 
that time) permitted to offer their services to UK customers. Mr K has also said that 
he was offered compensation from the Cyprus Ombudsman in relation to this matter. 
As such, Im not persuaded that F were operating a scam as Mr K alleges. It would 
be unusual for scammers to comply with all the requirements of becoming regulated. 
As Im not persuaded his payments were made as the result of a scam, there was no 
reason for Barclays to have intervened at the times the payments were made. I dont 
think Barclays did anything wrong in processing the payments as instructed. 
Once Mr K made the allegation of a scam, the only option available for Barclays to 
potentially assist with recovering the money was the chargeback scheme. Barclays 
raised a chargeback which F defended. I think Barclays tried to help Mr K by raising 
this chargeback and I dont think their decision to not take it further was unfair or 
unreasonable in these circumstances, given the evidence provided by F. The 
chargeback scheme requires very specific evidence (which often cant be obtained 
retrospectively) and Mr K hasnt demonstrated that he had this at the time he asked 
Barclays to process chargeback claims for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman