DRN-3465713
The complaint
Mr H complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined a claim under his 
Appliance Insurance Policy. He also complains about the customer service he received.
What happened
Mr Hs fridge freezer was covered under a policy with D&G. In November 2021, he contacted 
D&G because the fridge freezer was making a high-pitched noise. The call handler told him 
it would be repaired or replaced and arranged for one of its engineers to attend.
The engineer reported the appliance was a conventional fridge freezer without a fan and, as 
the noise/fault could not be replicated during his visit, he concluded there were no faults. 
D&G contacted Mr H the following day to tell him the claim was being declined. The call 
handler explained that as there was no fault, a repair wasnt possible. D&G was therefore 
unable to settle the claim because it had to rely on what the engineer wrote in his report. Mr 
H then asked the call handler to cancel his policy, which he did.
He told the call handler that although the noise wasnt present at the time of the engineers 
visit, he had shown him a recording of the noise on his table. He also said the engineer had 
said the noise was the sound of the fan kicking in but failed to record this in his notes.
Mr H later complained to D&G. He said he suffered from PTSD and other mental health 
issues and felt hed been treated unfairly by the call handler. He accepted he did ask for the 
policy to be cancelled but felt he wasnt treated appropriately in the circumstances.
In its final response, D&G maintained its decision to decline the claim was based on the 
findings of the engineer. But it eventually accepted Mr H had experienced unprofessional 
behaviour and said the call handler and their manager had been spoken to so they could 
correct the action.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said the engineer told him 
there was an issue with the fan, but this wasnt recorded on the notes. He said the fridge is 
still working but continues to make a noise intermittently. He is also annoyed D&G keep 
trying to sell him new policies.
D&G explained Mr H had reported a noise, but this wasnt a mechanical or electrical 
breakdown. It acknowledged Mr H found it difficult to tolerate the noise because he wears a 
hearing aid, but it maintained that as the engineer couldnt detect any faults, a repair wasnt 
possible. It said it was unable to comment on whether there was a conversation between Mr 
H and the engineer about a fan, but it noted that, based on the information it had about the 
appliance, it didnt have a fan. 
Our investigator was satisfied D&Gs decision to decline the claim was fair because an 
insured event hadnt taken place. He accepted there was a noise, but he explained that 
because the appliance continued to function, it hadnt broken down and so the noise wasnt 
covered under the policy. 
Further, our investigator didnt think the call handler had acted unfairly when he carried out 
Mr Hs instructions to cancel the policy and he noted that while Mr Hs expectations couldve 
been better managed regarding the chances of the claim being covered, he didnt think the 
impact on him was significant.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for accidental damage and breakdown (after the manufacturers 
guarantee). Accidental damage is not relevant to this claim, but, in the event of breakdown, 
the policy states if your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of
the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option)
authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product.
D&G has said its engineer cant recall whether he was shown a video of the noise on Mr Hs 
tablet, but I have seen it and I accept there is a noise. However, I agree with our investigator 
that if the fridge continues to work both mechanically and electronically, there is not an 
insured event because there is no mechanical or electrical breakdown.
I understand this is frustrating but, while I accept the noise is having a significant impact on 
Mr H, the policy doesnt provide cover in these circumstances. Based on Mr Hs own 
account, the fridge continues to function properly, therefore, under the terms and conditions 
of the policy, there was no insured event. Consequently, Im satisfied D&Gs decision to 
decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
I agree Mr H couldve been told sooner that the policy wouldnt provide cover in 
circumstances where the fridge freezer continued to function properly, but I dont think this 
caused him any loss, especially as he felt so strongly that he had a valid claim. Ive 
considered the various conversations Mr H had with D&G and Im satisfied the customer 
service he received reached a reasonable standard. He was offered other policies during the 
calls, but I dont think this was unreasonable.
My final decision
I understand Mr H will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman