DRN-2877665
The complaint
Mr F says that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) should not have increased the credit limit on his 
credit card on a number of occasions and that this was irresponsible lending and has caused 
him financial difficulties. He would like a refund for all interest and charges, his outstanding 
balance wiped and negative information on his credit report removed.  
  
What happened
  Mr F says that he took out a credit card when he was under severe financial strain and this 
has caused him more financial difficulties and ruined his credit history. He says that he was 
given multiple credit increases when he was constantly getting charged for being over his 
limit and that none of the increases should have been offered. Mr F says that he spent his 
credit to the limit on gambling sites and regularly missed payments but then would be offered 
an increase once he had made a few payments on time. He says that this behaviour should 
have stopped NewDay from offering the increases. 
Mr F says that he was suffering with depression at the time and his financial position caused 
him severe stress and anxiety. He would like a refund for all interest and charges, his 
outstanding balanced wiped and negative information on his credit report removed. 
NewDay has set out that it offers second chance lending so it is not unusual for customers 
with a poor or absent credit history to apply for an account. It has a low and grow strategy 
as opposed to other lenders who may give a customer a credit limit which is relatively high 
from the outset but which remains the same during the lifetime of the account. It says that 
this explains why it may appear that the increases are in quick succession of each other or 
that the ratio of the increase is higher than average.
When making a decision to offer credit, NewDay says that it considers the information 
supplied on the customers application form and information from credit reference agencies. 
NewDay says it regularly reviews a customers account and makes a risk-based assessment 
to ensure it is lending appropriately, which may result in either an increase or decrease to 
the credit limit. Mr Fs account was reviewed in June 2014, June 2016 and March 2017 and 
he was eligible for the credit limit increases to £750, £1,350 and £1,950 respectively. 
When increasing Mr Fs credit limit, NewDay states that it used internal and external data 
and this showed that Mr F had maintained his payments each month (with the exception of 
February to May 2015, when its notes indicated there was a direct debit reversal due to 
incorrect payee details). Although there were some over limit fees charged, the increases 
were still offered within its policy. It says that its credit reference agency check reported no 
arrears or financial difficulty indicators when the increases were offered, nor was Mr F on 
any affordability watch. 
NewDay says that Mr F was given the opportunity to opt out of the increases within 40 days 
but it has no record of him contacted it to do so. As the credit increases were applied within 
seven, five and six days respectively of being offered, this suggested that Mr F had 
proactively accepted the credit limit increase offers. 
NewDay states that it was never informed of Mr Fs financial difficulties whilst the account 
was active. It says the last payment made by Mr F was in May 2017. The account went into 
arrears and then defaulted in July 2017. It went to debt recovery in September 2017 and the 
debt was sold on to a third party in December 2017. NewDay says it was only aware of Mr 
Fs financial difficulties when he complained after this.
Our investigator looked into the matter and was satisfied that reasonable checks were 
carried out by NewDay when Mr F applied for the credit card and was given an initial limit of 
£250. However, she found that the credit increases were significant and the data NewDay 
received from Mr Fs credit file suggested he was in financial difficulty from September 2014. 
Prior to this Mr F was repeatedly going over his credit limit, making small repayments and 
using the card for cash withdrawals once the limit had been increased. 
The investigator therefore concluded that NewDay should have carried out further checks to 
assess Mr Fs ability to repay. She found that, had more in-depth checks been carried out in 
June 2014, its likely this would have shown the increase wasnt affordable for Mr F. He 
wasnt using the account in a sustainable way and was unlikely to be able to clear the debt 
within a reasonable time. Despite this, NewDay continued to increase Mr Fs credit limit up to 
£1,950 without carrying out detailed checks to ensure this was affordable.
The investigator therefore upheld Mr Fs complaint and recommended that NewDay remove 
any associated interest and charges from the date of the first credit increase in June 2014 
and should remove any associated interest and charges from that date accrued on a 
balance of over £250. She found that NewDay should have realised Mr Fs account was no 
longer suitable from December 2014 and frozen it, not allowing any new purchases after this 
date - so recommended that all interest and charges should be removed from this date. It 
was also recommended that any negative information be removed from Mr Fs credit file.
NewDay disagreed with this so the case came to me to make a decision. I set out in my 
provisional decision dated 17 May 2021 (reproduced below) why I was minded to uphold this 
complaint on the basis that Newday acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Fs credit limit 
above £250 from June 2014 and that it shouldnt have done this. I invited both parties to let 
me have any further comments and evidence by 16 June 2021.
NewDay hasnt made any further comments. Mr F has provided information showing that he 
has now settled his debt with the third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Ive taken into account the relevant regulations and industry good practice in place 
at the time of the increases to Mr Fs credit limit. 
Having looked at the evidence I share the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons. However, I have proposed a different way for NewDay to put things right, 
bearing in mind the circumstances of it no longer owning the debt. I've explained my 
reasons further below.
When NewDay told Mr F that it was increasing his credit limit, I would expect it to 
have given him sufficient notice of the increase along with the option not to have the 
increase, in line with the regulations. Ive looked at the letters NewDay sent to Mr F and Im satisfied that it gave him the option to keep the current limit if he didnt want it 
to be increased. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr F wanted to opt out of the 
increases.
However, Ive also thought about the checks NewDay should have done when 
offering to raise the credit limit. The regulations required NewDay to carry out an 
assessment of Mr Fs creditworthiness when setting a credit limit, establishing his 
ability to afford and sustain repayments without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. The assessment needed to be proportionate to factors which could 
include the amount of the credit, Mr Fs financial position, his credit history and his 
existing financial commitments. It should have been based on sufficient information 
obtained from Mr F, where appropriate, and a credit reference agency, where 
necessary.
I can see that at the time of Mr Fs application in December 2013, he declared an 
income of £15,380 and unsecured debt of £700. NewDay checked his credit file 
which showed an outstanding balance on payday loans of £685. Although he had 
previously had five defaults on his credit file, the last of these had been 19 months 
prior to the application. Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by 
NewDay at this stage were proportionate and that the initial credit limit of £250 was 
reasonable in the circumstances. It was relatively low compared to Mr Fs income 
and there was nothing to indicate that it would be unaffordable for him at that time.
Whilst I accept that NewDay offers second chance lending and therefore the limit 
may be low initially and then increase, NewDay is still required to ensure that any 
increase is affordable for a customer at the time of that increase. 
The first credit limit increase was in June 2014 from £250 to £750, which was an 
increase of 200%. Whilst the increase in the credit limit was significant, this in itself 
doesnt mean that this was irresponsible lending. So Ive also looked at the evidence 
NewDay considered when making the decision to increase Mr Fs credit limit. 
By the time this increase was offered, Mr F had had his credit card for six months. 
The information on NewDays risk data spreadsheet shows that he had used the 
entire £250 limit in cash transactions within the first month of his card application. 
The statements show that the £250 had in fact been used for four gambling 
transactions all on the same day two weeks after the application, as a result of which 
he was charged cash advance fees which took him over his limit.
NewDay has said, in response to the investigators view, that Mr Fs retail spend was 
nearly £300 by the first increase so it had no concerns that his spend pattern was 
disproportionate. I dont accept NewDays position here as, following the £250 
gambling transactions and prior to the next increase, Mr F didnt make any further 
transactions. He only paid £25 a month off the balance each month and the overlimit 
fees and interest charges added to the account meant that he remained over his 
agreed limit until his direct debit came out in June 2014. He was offered a £500 
increase the same month. 
It is my view that this information should have prompted NewDay to carry out further 
checks before offering a credit increase. The information which was available should 
have alerted it to the fact that the borrowing may not have been affordable for Mr F 
and that he was not making repayments sustainably. This is because he spent the 
entire limit on gambling in one day and over the course of the next six months was 
unable to make any significant inroad into that debt, only servicing the fees and 
interest and being between £1 and £27 over his agreed limit for the duration of that time until June 2014. Given that he failed to reduce his balance by this extra amount 
(£1 to £27) to be within his credit limit, it is my view that this did not show Mr F to be 
creditworthy to the extent of a further £500. This is particularly bearing in mind it was 
only 11 days after he had managed to reduce the balance to within his agreed limit 
for the first time since he had begun using the card. So I dont think NewDay acted 
fairly in increasing Mr Fs credit limit in June 2014.
Following the first increase Mr F went over his new limit of £750 within a week. The 
majority of these transactions were for gambling websites and were therefore classed 
as cash transactions (his annual statement from January 2015 showed that £680 of 
the entire £755.51 transactions by that stage related to cash withdrawals including 
gambling). Mr F remained over his limit until December 2014, only making minimum 
repayments until February 2015, when no repayment was made for two months. The 
account was brought back to just under the limit in May 2015. NewDays risk data 
also indicated possible financial difficulties from September 2014 into the early part of 
2015 as it showed increasing debt and missed payments. 
Mr Fs balance remained close to or over the agreed limit of £750 until the second 
increase up to £1350 was offered in June 2016. By this time a further credit report 
available to NewDay showed that Mr F had taken 3 payday loans and was in almost 
£4,400 of debt. This had increased to almost £6,700 by the time of the third increase 
in March 2017. Again, and despite the information it had about Mr Fs financial 
situation from his credit file, NewDay didnt carry out any further checks to determine 
whether a credit increase was affordable for him. I think if it had have done, this 
would have shown that these increases were also not affordable and that Mr F would 
not be able to repay sustainably as his financial situation appeared to have 
deteriorated since the first credit increase. So I dont think NewDay acted fairly and 
Im satisfied that Newday acted irresponsibly in increasing Mr Fs credit limit on each 
occasion from June 2014.
I also set out what NewDay should do to put things right:
I have considered what would be a fair way to address these errors. Although Mr F 
should not have been given the higher limit, he has had the use of the funds spent on 
the credit card transactions. So I dont think it would be fair to ask NewDay to write 
the outstanding balance off. However, I dont think Mr F should be held responsible 
for the costs associated with the increased limit on the credit card once this was 
increased above £250  the interest, and any charges, applied to them. Had the 
credit increases not been granted, as I think should have happened, Mr F wouldnt 
have had to pay these amounts, so I dont think it is fair that he should pay them now. 
I also dont think any negative information should be recorded on Mr Fs credit file in 
respect of the credit card from June 2014. Without the errors by NewDay, the higher 
limit wouldnt have existed and I dont think its fair on Mr F to show a poor payment 
history given that this was an inevitable consequence of the lending decisions.
In relation to the investigators view that the account should have been frozen in 
December 2014 and no more purchases allowed, I disagree with this. Mr F had not 
notified NewDay that he was having financial difficulties at this stage and I think its 
most likely that he would have continued to maintain the account in a similar way, 
which I dont think would have warranted any pro-active intervention from NewDay to 
the extent of freezing the account as Mr F had not defaulted. So, whilst I think 
NewDay should have carried out more checks before offering a higher credit limit in 
June 2014 and that an increase shouldnt have been offered for the reasons above, I 
dont think that it would have been necessary for NewDay to have done anything 
further In December 2014 had the limit remained at £250. Mr F notified this service that NewDay had started court action in November 2020. NewDay confirmed that the 
debt had been sold to a third party in 2017 but said that it had requested its 
recoveries team to ask for any court action to be paused until this service had made 
a final decision. However, Mr F received notification of a Sheriff Court Decree in 
March 2021 and a County Court Judgment is now showing on his credit file. He has 
recently told this service that the third party has started enforcement proceedings. 
Whilst, I accept that this has understandably increased Mr Fs anxiety and added 
unnecessary stress to himself and his family, it appears that NewDay did contact the 
third party in order to pause court proceedings. It will be a matter for Mr F to contact 
the third party in relation to any proceedings against him and to inform them of any 
financial difficulties as his debt is with the third party and not with NewDay. So this 
aspect does not form part of this complaint against NewDay. Any complaint about 
this aspect would need to be raised against the third party as previously advised by 
our investigator. It is of course open to Mr F to apply for a notice of correction in 
relation to any adverse information on his credit file relating to the third party.
As NewDay no longer owns the debt and sold the account balance some years ago, 
it is unable to remove the interest and charges applied from June 2014. The money 
owed by Mr F is also now subject to a County Court Judgment in proceedings 
brought by the third party, so the amount of this judgment cannot now be amended. 
So, instead, NewDay should calculate the amount for any interest and fees which 
shouldnt have been charged since June 2014 and pay them off of Mr Fs debt with 
the third party.
Mr F has said that this matter has caused him severe stress and anxiety. And I can 
understand why having this debt wouldve been distressing. Given that I dont think 
NewDay should have increased Mr Fs limit above £250, in addition to effectively 
removing the costs associated with the additional lending, NewDay should pay a 
further £100 to Mr F to compensate for the distress hes been caused.
Following this provisional decision, Mr F has provided evidence to show that he has now 
paid off his debt to the third party owner of the debt in full as of 1 June 2021. In light of this, I 
have slightly amended the redress proposed previously, simply to reflect the fact that the 
amount owed to Mr F by NewDay should be paid directly to Mr F as opposed to being paid 
to the third party.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require NewDay to:
1. Calculate the total interest and charges levied on any balance owed over £250 (the 
credit limit prior to the June increase) on Mr Fs account from 20 June 2014 to the 
date the debt was sold.
2. Pay Mr F the amount in 1., along with 8% simple interest* per year, calculated from 1 
June 2021 (the date the debt was cleared by Mr F to the third party) to the date 
NewDay pays this settlement.
3. Remove any adverse information in relation to the credit card from Mr Fs credit file 
from 20 June 2014 onwards.
4.Pay Mr F £100 in recognition of his distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint and 
require NewDay Ltd to put things right as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman