DRN-3369075
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2016, Mrs G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs G decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Gs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs G to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,900 to mislead Mrs G, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £13,997.20;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs G or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mrs G Ps quote (on which the adjudicator had 
relied), either at the sales meeting or afterwards;
Mrs G had never had the opportunity to read any of it;
Instead the salesman had just left Mrs G with two pages of handwritten notes, which 
suggested that he had told her that the system would make her a profit of £21 a 
month during the loan period (and £137 a month after the loan ended);
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Mrs G had not 
thought it necessary to ask for anything else in writing afterwards;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs G could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs G says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation, and the 
handwritten notes. Ive considered these, along with Mrs Gs testimony and recollection of 
the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs G, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract.But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mrs G simply took the salesmans word for it when 
she was told that she could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an 
interest-bearing loan  without it costing her a penny, without at any point asking to see 
something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that she has simply forgotten seeing the 
quote over the four years between the sale and the bringing of this claim. It appears to be 
signed by her, and I think it is more likely than not that this is her signature. So, taking all of 
this into account, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mrs G agreed to enter into the contract, and that the 
salesperson went through it during the meeting. So Ive taken this into account, along with 
Mrs Gs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The handwritten notes are two pages of figures. I accept that the salesman wrote these, and 
so Ive considered them too. But I dont think it is really plausible that Mrs G accepted these 
scribblings on their own as sufficient guarantee that she would make a profit from a system 
that was going to cost her thousands of pounds. I think she would have wanted to see 
something a little more official than that, and I think that she saw the notes in conjunction 
with the quote.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs G was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £8,900 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £13,997.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Gs recollections, Im satisfied that she 
was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mrs G more than the cash price as she had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs G has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mrs Gs recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote (page 8) sets out the estimated income Mrs G could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and then the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period. 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs G could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £152.39, which results in an average monthly income of £12.70 in the 
first year. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £115.81.
The second table shows that the average FIT income over 20 years would be higher than 
that: £242.94. (This is 159% of the figure for year one.) That works out at £20.25 a month, 
on average.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs G could expect to make from the 
system. In year one these are estimated to be £262.67 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Mrs G, the combined income and savings in year one are shown 
as £1,059.22. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
£1,059 in a year clearly works out at less than £100 a month, so I dont think it is likely that 
the salesman told Mrs G that the system would make her £137 a month in the first year.
However, the quote also goes on to say that the average electricity savings over 30 years 
will be £809.78 a year. This is a substantial increase on the year one figure of only £262.67. 
This page of the quote does not add up the total income and savings when averaged over 
20 or 30 years. But another page of the quote (page 3) says that the potential income and 
savings from the system over 30 years will be £49,393. And that same figure also appears in 
the handwritten notes, rounded up to £49,400. In the notes, that figure is divided by 30, to 
give £1,646 a year, and then divided again by 12 to give £137 a month  that is, the average 
monthly benefit over 30 years. The notes then go on to deduct £116 a month (i.e. £115.81 
rounded up), giving a profit of £21 a month, as described by Mrs G. This is because the FIT 
income and savings from the system were expected to increase yearly. (The system would 
eventually make enough to cover the monthly loan payments from year six, as will be shown 
in the next paragraph.) So the handwritten notes refer to the average income and savings 
over 30 years  not in just the first year, when they would be at their lowest. The two 
documents dont contradict each other, but the notes were not about the first year.
Theres another section of the quote headed Repayments, with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mrs G entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £115.81. For each year of the ten 
year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £115.81, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first five years of the loan, 
meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money to cover the loan 
payments until year six.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs G could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mrs G wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Gs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings from the start.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs G that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mrs G, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance 
Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs G was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take seven years for the 
overall benefits that Mrs G could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the seven-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year seven the overall benefits that Mrs G could expect 
to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,900.
(The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £13,997, 
would be reached by the end of year ten.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs G that the system would pay for its cash 
price in seven years, and for the loan in about ten years, as supported by the graphic and 
the table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone 
on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mrs G.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,249 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mrs Gs meter reading and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,036 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (90.5%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mrs G has not seen the expected financial 
returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs G hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs G could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs G entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs G to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman