DRN-3410686
The complaint
Mr G complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
mishandled his legal expenses claim as he says they deliberately provided misleading 
information which delayed the assessment of his claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as I consider 
DASs award of compensation to be fair. Ill explain why.
First, I understand that Mr G has had ongoing issues with DAS and his legal 
expenses claim that have spanned more than one complaint; one of which has 
previously been reviewed by this service in July 2020. I cannot comment on any 
matters that have already been decided by this service, and the scope of 
consideration for this decision is limited to what occurred after the previous 
ombudsmans decision, up until DAS issued their final response in July 2021. Should 
Mr G have any further concerns with issues that have occurred after this point, he 
would need to raise this with the insurer in the first instance as a separate complaint.
I appreciate that the service Mr G has received from DAS since July 2020 has been 
poor. I can see that he was given inconsistent information, for example, with regards 
to what the appointed solicitors had been instructed to consider. Im also aware that 
DAS initially gave incorrect instructions to the solicitors, as they asked for a merits 
assessment rather than the fundamental question of establishing how many 
contracts Mr G had in place with his window supplier. This subsequently led to further 
delays in the assessment of his claim. 
DAS have acknowledged that they failed to show the level of service Mr G ought to 
expect and agreed there had been a breakdown in the quality of their 
communication. As a result they offered £400 compensation, which Mr G does not 
consider to be commensurate to the experience he has had and submits that further 
compensation should be awarded.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. And in order to award further compensation to Mr G, I would have to be satisfied 
that the wrongful actions of DAS have had a greater impact than just moderate 
inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, and that DASs actions have 
caused the assessment of his claim to be delayed. But I dont consider the impact of 
this to warrant compensation at a higher level. Mr G says that DAS deliberately gave 
misleading information, but Ive not seen anything that would suggest the insurers 
mistakes were deliberate and intended to frustrate the claims process. Rather, it 
seems to have been an unfortunate oversight and poor service/communication that 
has caused the issues here. 
I appreciate that Mr G has had to dedicate a lot of time towards the progression of his 
claim. But this service does not expect firms to compensate customers according to 
an hourly rate, but to consider holistically the impact of any poor service (which will 
take account of any inconvenience a customer has been put to and the time theyve 
had to dedicate to rectifying matters). And in light of the trouble and upset caused in 
this instance, Im satisfied that DASs offer of £400 is fair compensation in the 
circumstances. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but I will not 
be asking DAS to increase their offer of compensation.
My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have made an offer to pay £400.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
DAS should pay Mr G (if they have not already done so) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr G should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although Mr Gs legal rights will remain 
intact, it will purely be a matter between Mr G and DAS as to whether the £400 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman