DRN-3990489
The complaint
Mr R complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) supplied him with a car that he 
doesnt believe was of satisfactory quality. He believes the agreement was mis-represented 
to him and hes unhappy they wouldnt allow him to reject the car and cancel the agreement. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr R entered into a 58 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car cost £16,500, it was first registered in 2015 and it had travelled in excess of 120,000 
miles. He was required to pay monthly instalments of £526.
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr R reported issues with it. Throughout the history of the 
complaint, he complained about a number of issues including but not limited to:
The timing belt and water pump needed to be replaced;
Issues with the paintwork including poor respray to the cars rear. He was told it 
would be machine polished when supplied;
The steering wobbles when driving at high speeds;
The wheels were mis-aligned;
The tailgate wasnt secured correctly as it only had one bracket; 
There was a loud noise coming from the heaters;
The roof lining was dirty; 
There was a rip in the centre console with black tape to cover it up;
The cars mileage at collection was over 128,000 not 125,000 as advertised;
The car was advertised with full service history but that wasnt the case and that had 
contributed to the cars faults. 
Moneybarn delayed in responding to his complaint and ignored his request to reject 
the car within the cooling off period. 
Mr R said he paid £130 for repairs to the wheels which he wanted to be compensated for. 
He said he wasnt willing for any further repairs and he wanted to reject the car and be 
refunded for the payments he made towards the agreement. He said he stopped driving the 
car around July 2022 as he had lost confidence in it.
Moneybarn said the dealership had agreed to contribute towards the cost of repairing the 
timing belt and water pump. They said there was no evidence the car had been advertised 
stating these parts had been replaced. Without an independent inspection, they were unable 
to determine what faults were present (if any) and who would be liable for them. They said 
the other issues were cosmetic related and wouldve formed a part of Mr Rs due diligence 
checks before acquiring the car. Mr R is able to withdraw from the agreement but he must 
pay the credit and accrued interest before he takes ownership of the car. Lastly for the 
delays in answering the complaint, they credited his account with £100 to recognise the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He concluded there was insufficient evidence 
the agreement had been misrepresented and although there may have been fault with the 
wheels,  that didnt mean it wasnt of satisfactory quality given the age and mileage of the 
car. He said there was not enough evidence of the other faults. He also said there was no 
cooling off period term which allowed Mr R to return the car at no cost to him. 
The car was collected by Moneybarn in November 2022. They said the car was at risk as Mr 
R would be travelling abroad for work and he had placed Moneybarn as the registered 
keeper which would likely invalidate the car insurance policy. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, Ill explain why. 
Mr R acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. Moneybarn was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
Misrepresentation 
Mr R says the car was advertised with a full service history and he wouldve expected the 
water pump and timing belt to have been replaced prior to him acquiring it.  He said had he 
known that didnt happen, he wouldnt have entered into the agreement. Hes provided 
evidence the car wasnt serviced between 74,000 and 128,600 miles. He complains the 
agreement was mis-represented to him. 
Under section 56 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), explains that finance providers 
are liable for what they say and for what is said by a broker before the consumer takes out 
the credit agreement. So Im satisfied I can consider the statements made by the dealership 
about the car. 
A misrepresentation is when:
1. A false statement of fact has been made; and
2. This false statement induces a customer to buy a car. 
In this case, neither Mr R nor Moneybarn have provided a copy of the advert selling the car. 
Therefore Im unable to confirm whether it was advertised with a full service history. On that 
basis, I cant reasonably say theres been a false statement of fact.
I also acknowledge Mr Rs concerns that the car was advertised around 125,000 miles but 
when he collected it, it had over 128,000 miles. In the absence of the advert, Ive referred to 
the agreement and the dealership invoice which both state the car had travelled around 
125,000 miles. On balance, I believe its most likely the car was advertised at that mileage. 
The car was serviced just before Mr R took possession of it and the service book shows the 
mileage as over 128,600 miles. The cars MOT carried out around that time, also confirms 
the same. Based on this evidence, Im persuaded when the car was supplied to Mr R, it had 
travelled over 128,600 miles, not 125,000 so I find there was a false statement of fact about 
the cars mileage. Although I find that to be the case, I must also be satisfied it induced him to buy the car for 
there to be a misrepresentation. However Im not convinced it did. I say that because there 
isnt a huge difference in mileage, around 3,600. Mr R also had the opportunity to inspect the 
car before he took delivery of it therefore its fair to say he wouldve seen the correct 
mileage. 
Although I dont find theres been a mis-representation, Ive gone on to consider whether the 
car was mis-described. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, the goods must be as described. For the reasons explained above 
relating to the difference in mileage I dont find it was meaning there was a breach of 
contract. 
However I dont find Moneybarn needs to do anything to put things right as Im not satisfied it 
caused detriment or material loss to Mr R. This is because having searched valuations of the 
car in March 2022 (which is when Mr R entered into the agreement), I find there was minimal 
difference (around £200/£300) between the car having covered 125,000 or 128,600 miles. 
Therefore I dont find asking Moneybarn to allow rejection on that basis would be fair or 
proportionate. 
Faults with the car
Mr R has complained about a number of issues with the timing belt, water pump, steering, 
wheels, tailgate, etc. 
The CRA says under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory. The goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc. 
Mr R was supplied with a used car that was over six years old and had travelled over 
128,600 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered 
notable wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
Mr R has provided evidence that shortly after acquiring the car, repairs were carried out on 
the wheels (tracking and balancing). This demonstrates there was a fault but although I find 
that to be the case, Im not persuaded that meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I say 
this because the car was several years old and covered a significant amount of miles at 
supply so its reasonable to expect some parts may need repairing or fixing sooner than 
others.
In respect of the other faults mentioned, I havent been presented with any documentary 
evidence to show they exist such as diagnostic reports, repair estimates, pictures or videos. 
Nor is there any evidence to indicate whether they were present or developing at supply. I 
note Moneybarn offered to arrange for an independent inspection however Mr R didnt agree 
for this to happen. Thats unfortunate as it wouldve been beneficial for a qualified expert to 
determine what faults existed and whether in their professional opinion, they were present or 
developing at supply. I consider Moneybarns offer to arrange such an inspection was a 
reasonable course of action so its a shame it didnt happen. In the absence of an inspection report or any other evidence, I find theres insufficient 
evidence of the issues reported by Mr R. So it follows I cant reasonably say the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at supply, on balance I find it was given its age and mileage. Therefore 
I wont be asking Moneybarn to allow rejection of the car.  
Even though there was no clear evidence of the issues with the timing belt and water pump, 
I note the dealership said they were willing to arrange repairs at no cost to Mr R if it was 
returned to them or alternatively they would pay 50% if it was taken to a dealer local to Mr R. 
Later, Moneybarn told our service they agreed to pay the remaining 50% if it was fixed 
locally. Given the lack of evidence to support Mr Rs assertions, I cant say this offer wasnt a 
fair one. 
Withdrawing from the agreement 
Mr R says due to the issues with the car, he asked on more than one occasion to reject it 
and he said he done so within the 14 day cooling off period. 
The CRA says consumers have a short term right to reject the car (30 days) if its of 
unsatisfactory quality. For the reasons explained above, I find the car was of satisfactory 
quality therefore this right wouldnt apply. 
The relevant law that applies to the cancellation of credit agreements such as conditional 
sale agreements is found within section 66 of the CCA. There are many parts that apply but 
the most relevant says consumers can withdraw from the credit agreement within 14 days if 
certain conditions are satisfied. It says:
(9)Where the debtor withdraws from an agreement under this section
(a)the debtor must repay to the creditor any credit provided and the interest accrued on it (at 
the rate provided for under the agreement), but
(b)the debtor is not liable to pay to the creditor any compensation, fees or charges except 
any non-returnable charges paid by the creditor to a public administrative body.
In this case, the agreement says the following in regard to withdrawing from the agreement:
Should you decide to go ahead with the finance agreement, you will have the right to 
withdraw from the agreement without giving any reason before the end of 14 days beginning 
with the day after the day you are informed by us in writing that the agreement has been 
signed by us. You may exercise this right in person or by informing us in writing.
It goes on to say:
If you withdraw from the agreement you must repay the amount of credit and any accrued 
interest on that amount to us without delay and in any event within 30 days after giving 
notice of withdrawal (interest accrues from the date the credit was provided until you repay)
Once you have paid the amount of credit and any accrued interest, title (ownership) in the 
vehicle will pass to you. As you will not own the vehicle until the final payment is made, you 
cannot sell the vehicle in order to pay off the finance on the agreement or withdraw from the 
agreement.
I find Moneybarns terms is in line with the CCA. I wish to stress withdrawing from the 
finance agreement doesnt mean Mr R is withdrawing from the contract to acquire the car. 
The CCA and Moneybarns terms make it clear he would remain liable for this. Moneybarn had already paid for the car so to cancel the agreement, Mr R would be required to pay this 
back plus any accrued interest.
Based on Moneybarns contact notes and the emails Ive seen, I accept Mr R asked to 
withdraw from the agreement within 14 days. The above term allows him to do so but as 
explained above, he would still be liable to pay costs. I must emphasise, theres nothing in 
the terms which permit Mr R to simply return the car at no cost to him. In response to the 
complaint, Moneybarn made him aware of the same so I cant say they did anything wrong 
but I wouldve expected them to have made this clear and explained the same sooner. 
Lastly, Im aware Moneybarn credited the account by £100 in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused by the delays in answering the complaint. As mentioned by the investigator, 
the handling of a complaint isnt a regulated activity that our service can look into so it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on the same. 
Summary 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied and the agreement wasnt misrepresented. Although the car wasnt as described 
(due to the mileage), I dont find there was a material loss to Mr R. Lastly, I find Moneybarn 
acted fairly and in line with their terms in informing Mr R about withdrawing from the 
agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman