DRN-2875592
The complaint
Mr G doesnt think Calpe Insurance Company Limited have paid him a fair settlement figure 
when meeting a claim on his motor insurance policy.
A representative has been involved in this complaint for Mr G, but for simplicity Ill mainly 
refer to him in this decision.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint as well, but as Calpe are responsible 
for it, Ill just refer to them in this decision.
What happened
On 18 August 2020 Mr G was involved in an incident where he drove through a big puddle of 
water, and his engine cut out. It appears there were some delays in the car being potentially 
repaired, as a result of the engine being on back order. Eventually Mr G asked for a cash in 
lieu (CIL) settlement  meaning hed get to keep the car and would be sent the money to 
arrange his own repairs. Mr G was given an offer which he doesnt think is right. He said 
Calpe have deducted a VAT payment from his settlement but doesnt think thats fair.
Calpe said Mr G had contacted them following his driving through a pool of water. An 
external engineer decided the car was repairable, and when Mr G disagreed, they got a 
second opinion  who also agreed the car was repairable. After seeing both reports, Mr G 
asked for a cash payment in lieu of repairs. On 16 November 2020 Calpe calculated this as 
£12,686  which represented the total repair cost of £18,823.20 less VAT of £3,137.20 and 
Mr Gs excess of £3,000. Calpe said the reason they were deducting the VAT was because 
this was a cash settlement in lieu of repairs, so no VAT was incurred as no repairs had been 
carried out  and Mr G wasnt VAT registered. On 21 November 2020 Mr G accepted this 
payment  but shortly after his representative said the VAT had to be paid directly to Mr G.
Later on, Calpe said theyd pay VAT on their settlement offer if those costs were incurred  
either by refunding Mr G or paying the repairer directly. Mr G made a large number of 
arguments about why he thought the VAT payment should be made to him regardless  but 
Calpe said the costs havent been incurred so they wont be making that payment.
Unhappy with this Mr G asked us to look into things. His representative explained his 
position was that this insurance policy needs to provide full indemnity for the loss at the point 
it happens. Here, thatd include the full cost of repairs  so the VAT should be paid. He 
added when making a claim through the courts theres no duty for consumers to have to get 
their car repaired  and said hes taken insurers to court over this, who always find in his 
favour and provided a judgement of this. And he provided details of an outcome our service 
issued as well in support of this.
One of our investigators considered everything, but he felt Calpes position was reasonable. 
The VAT costs Mr G wanted hadnt been incurred  so the complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr G said he didnt accept the outcome because the VAT amount is part of the quantum of 
loss that requires indemnity. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the argument made by Mr Gs representative if, as he says, hes taken the 
issue to court on multiple occasions and won his claim. But my role is to take into account 
the law, industry guidance, regulations and good practice  and decide things on a fair and 
reasonable basis. Im always required to decide cases on their own facts  while taking into 
account the above.
Calpe have argued as the costs havent been incurred on the VAT, they shouldnt have to 
pay them  but made it clear in their response to Mr G, and again to our investigator, theyd 
do so if Mr G got his car repaired and incurred those costs.
In all the facts of this case, I think thats fair and reasonable. I say that because Mr G hasnt 
incurred these costs currently. Its possible when he goes to get his repairs done, hes able 
to do so for cheaper than Calpe may have been able to arrange. If that were to happen, then 
the VAT would be less, meaning Mr G would, in effect, be in a better position as a result of 
this. That wouldnt be appropriate.
Ive also thought about Mr Gs argument that this means hes not been properly indemnified. 
But I think he has  on the basis that, if he gets the repairs done as he said he was going to, 
Calpe will cover those VAT costs.
I note Mr G told our investigator hes unable to afford the cost of the repairs. In that situation, 
and on the assumption the only reason for the problem is down to the cost of the VAT, Id 
expect Calpe to work with Mr G, or his chosen garage, to try and reach an agreement. But 
Ive not seen anything to show Mr G has made Calpe aware of his circumstances. If he has, 
and theyve not helped him, then he may be entitled to raise a new complaint.
Ive thought about the court judgement thats been provided and the example Mr Gs 
representative has given of our service upholding this type of complaint. But, as each case 
are decided on their own merits I cant comment any further.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Calpe have acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Because of that, I wont be requiring them to pay the cost of the VAT.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman