DRN-3161376
The complaint
Mr T complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr T took out two Everyday Lending loans as follows:
LoanDate taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 10/04/2018 £3,000 24 months £277.02
2 11/10/2018 £5,000 48 months £327.32
Mr T has brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to Mr T.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and he asked for his complaint to be re-investigated and a binding decision made. So it 
comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. 
loan 1
Everyday Loans asked Mr T about his income and expenditure and its own checks 
showed that his monthly income was at least £2,869. Everyday Loans also carried out 
credit checks to gain an understanding of Mr Ts credit history and see his current credit 
commitments. These showed that Mr T had no other outstanding loans at the time and his 
credit cards were all within their credit limit. There was no indication of any serious 
financial difficulty apparent from looking at the credit checks Everyday Loans obtained. 
When assessing affordability, Everyday Loans allowed for Mr Ts rent costing him around 
£404 each month. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations 
an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ts position might 
reasonably expect to pay. As well as this, Everyday Loans included an extra buffer for any 
minor fluctuations in Mr Ts income or expenses or in case he needed to meet an 
unplanned expense. 
Everyday Loans worked out that Mr T needed to pay around £769 towards his existing 
credit commitments. After allowing for the fact that the loan was taken out for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr T said he would use the loan to repay other debt using 
this loan - Everyday Loans worked out that his disposable income would still be around 
£950 after paying for his new loan with Everyday Loans.
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Loans were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and that it was fair to conclude that the loan repayments looked like they 
shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr T based on the information it had gathered.
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr T provided or the other 
information Everyday Loans had recorded, which meant that the lender shouldve taken 
more steps to check the information Mr T had declared. And I think the checks were 
enough for Everyday Lending to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
loan 1.
loan 2
Mr Ts circumstances were broadly the same as they had been when he took out his first 
loan although Everyday Loans recorded information showing that his creditor repayments 
had gone down to around £440. 
I think its fair to say that loan 2 looked like it shouldve been affordable for Mr T as it 
appeared he should still have more than £1,400 spare cash after paying for loan 2.
Mr T hadnt shown Everyday Loans any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Everyday Loans had 
collected, seem to support its lending decision. Mr Ts total indebtedness didnt seem 
unreasonable or excessive for someone in Mr Ts position. 
I think its fair to say that the bank statements Everyday Loans saw, which can give a useful 
insight into someones overall financial situation, mainly showed that Mr T seemed to be 
managing his money well. I can see that he had a couple of returned direct debit payments in the previous month 
before he applied for this loan. 
But it was an isolated instance that looks more like an oversight  I dont think it was 
enough to suggest that Mr T was persistently facing serious problems managing his money. 
So this doesnt affect my overall view. 
All in all, I wouldnt have expected the information Everyday Loans saw in its credit checks 
and on the bank statements Mr T provided to have given Everyday Loans any particular 
cause for concern.
Looked at overall, I dont think there was enough in the information that Everyday Loans 
could see that I think wouldve made it realise that Mr T couldnt afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way. 
It was too soon for Everyday Loans reasonably to be able to identify any particular pattern 
of lending that wouldve suggested Mr T was over-reliant on this type of borrowing and so it 
shouldnt have lent to him. 
To sum up, I think the checks that Everyday Lending carried out before it agreed to provide 
loan 2 were proportionate and that it was entitled to rely on the information it acquired 
which showed that this loan looked sustainably affordable for Mr T.
Im sorry that Mr T found himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Ts financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Everyday Lending obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Lending did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr T. It did sufficient checks in the particular 
circumstances of these loan applications and made fair lending decisions based on the 
information it obtained.
So I havent identified any reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award of 
redress against Everyday Lending and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr T. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
If Mr T is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances, theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and I make no award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman