DRN-3579558
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
defaulted her account.
What happened
Mrs M had a credit card with Barclaycard. In February 2020, the limit was £18,000 and the 
statement balance was £17,633. The minimum payment was £440.70, due by 12 March 
2020. On 13 March 2020, a payment of £412 was made  and a late fee applied. In April 
2020, Mrs M asked for a payment holiday on her account under the pandemic support 
scheme, but this was declined. Mrs Ms household income had been affected by the 
pandemic, and Barclaycard agreed to a series of 30 day holds on her accounts  whereby 
no payments were required, and interest and charges were set at zero. No payments were 
made in April 2020, or in subsequent months. On 20 September 2020, Barclaycard sent Mrs 
M a Notice of Default  which asked for payment of the arrears of £2,411.45 by 21 October 
2020. This wasnt paid and on 18 October 2020, Barclaycard sent a letter saying the default 
had been registered. The debt was passed to a debt collection agency (DCA) to collect.
Mrs M complained. She said the default had been wrongly registered as she had an 
agreement with Barclaycard not to have to pay anything. She said her account wasnt in 
arrears. The default was therefore unfair. She said that because of the default, she couldnt 
get a job in financial services, and because the card had been cancelled, an insurance 
premium hadnt been paid and the insurance cover had now lapsed. She wants the default 
removed and the insurance cover reinstated.
Barclaycard said Mrs M contacted them on 23 April 2020 and said her income had been 
affected by the pandemic. They sent an income & expenditure form to her for completion 
and placed a 30-day hold on the account, with no interest or fees. In May 2020, Mrs M 
emailed Barclaycard to ask for interest and payments to be frozen for 6-12 months. No 
income & expenditure form had been received so they sent another one. A further 30-day 
hold was applied on the same basis as before. On 20 June 2020, Mrs M called Barclaycard. 
As her income & expenditure form showed a negative position, they offered her a repayment 
plan. Barclaycard said that on the call, Mrs M was advised of the effect on her credit file. On 
20 July 2020 and 20 August 2020, Mrs M said her circumstances were unchanged, and 
each time they placed a 30-day hold on her account. On 22 September 2020, she emailed 
Barclaycard and asked for a further hold  and they asked her to call to discuss her request. 
Due to the non-payment on the account, Barclaycard sent a Notice of Default on 20 
September 2020 and a default was registered in October 2020. Mrs Ms account was placed 
with a DCA to collect payments on Barclaycards behalf in November 2020.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigators offered two views, and each one said 
Barclaycard had acted reasonably. Mrs M didnt agree and asked that her complaint be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that she had an agreement with Barclaycard that she didnt 
need to make any payments to her account  and therefore the default wasnt fair and 
should be removed.
Barclaycard told us that Mrs M applied for a payment holiday in April 2020 and I considered 
this aspect first  as if that had been agreed, then there wouldve been no advice to the 
credit refence agencies, nor would default processes have been followed. So, I wanted to 
ensure that Barclaycards decision to decline the payment holiday request was reasonable.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Barclaycard had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was 
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent 
normally agreed. Also, where a customers difficulties were not due to the pandemic, or 
where there were pre-existing arrears, this support wasnt available.
I can see from Barclaycards notes that when Mrs M called Barclaycard in April 2020  she 
said that her husbands income had been affected by the pandemic, but that the problems 
existed before covid-19. And  I can see she was already in arrears by then  the statement 
dated 16 April 2020 showed she hadnt paid the amount of the minimum payment due. And 
so, for those reasons, it was a reasonable decision for Barclaycard to decline to give Mrs M 
a payment holiday.
But  given that a payment holiday wasnt possible  businesses have an obligation to treat 
customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
says that businesses like Barclaycard should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept 
lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their debt. And so  
Ive considered whether Barclaycard acted reasonably in the light of this guidance. 
Based on what Mrs M told Barclaycard in April 2020, they gave her a 30-day hold on her 
account  with no payments or interest. They sent her an income & expenditure form to 
complete  as they wanted to understand more about her circumstances. That seemed a 
reasonable thing to do  as we wouldnt expect Barclaycard to give an interest and payment 
 free period indefinitely without understanding what was going on.
In May 2020, Barclaycard hadnt received the income & expenditure form and wrote to Mrs 
M asked her to make contact. She completed the form and then called Barclaycard on 20 
June 2020. This showed that she had more expenditure than income (there was a deficit of 
£845 per month). And so  Barclaycard couldnt ask Mrs M to make any contractual 
payments  as she couldnt afford to do so. So, they agreed a further 30-day hold on the 
same basis as before  but asked her to get in touch at the end of the 30 days to establish if 
anything had changed. 
What happened then was Mr M asked for series of 30-day holds each month. So, by 20 
September 2020  the arrears were £2,411.45 (with no payments being made since March 2020). Barclaycard then sent a Notice of Default asking that this amount was paid by 21 
October 2020. It wasnt paid and so they registered the default at that time.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. In Mrs Ms case  
she was six months in arrears, so Barclaycard were entitled to register a default. And even 
though Barclaycard had agreed to a series of payment freezes, its fair to say that a firm 
cant be expected to carry on with those indefinitely.
For me, the key issue here is in the communications between Mrs M and Barclaycard  and 
whether they were clear enough. I considered these. Mrs M maintains she had an 
agreement not to pay  and the default therefore wasnt fair and should be removed. 
Barclaycard and our investigators say otherwise.
Firstly, I looked at the letters Barclaycard sent. On 23 April 2020  they confirmed the 30-day 
hold to Mrs M. The letter said: Thanks for getting in touch to let us know that you need more 
time to review your financial situation.Whilst were waiting to hear back, we wont charge 
you any further fees or interest for 30 days if we havent heard from you, well assume that 
youre able to make your standard monthly payments and will reinstate any fees and 
interest. We still need to update the Credit Reference Agencies and let them know that 
youre not making your minimum payments each month and that youre in arrears, which 
may affect your ability to get credit in the future.
A similar letter was sent on 26 May 2020, and in June 2020, July 2020, and August 2020  
with the same wording.  So  Barclaycard did say at each stage that Mrs Ms credit file would 
be affected. And  the letters also said that Mrs Ms account was in arrears.
On 16 April 2020, Barclaycard wrote to Mrs M to say she was in arrears by £473.99. This 
letter said, Each time you miss a payment, well report it to the Credit Reference Agencies, 
which will affect your credit rating and make it harder for you to get credit in the 
futureyoure overdue with your payments and in arrears on your account.
On 24 May 2020, Barclaycard wrote again with the arrears £939.01. The letter said, These 
missed payments will have a negative impact on your credit rating and could make it harder 
for you to get credit in the futureyoure overdue with your payments and in arrears on your 
account.
So  it was clear that Barclaycard were getting concerned about the arrears that were 
building up because of the suspension of monthly payments. And they were saying to Mrs M 
 that there were arrears that needed to be paid. And that these would be reported to her 
credit file. I also noted that Mrs Ms statements showed there were arrears  on 13 August 
2020 they were £2,055.70. Even though Barclaycard agreed that payments could be 
suspended  that didnt mean that arrears wouldnt build up.
I listened to the call between Mrs M and Barclaycard on 20 June 2020. This is an important 
call. Mrs M wanted to have a hold on interest and payments for 12 months. The call handler 
said that wasnt possible  and agreed another 30-day hold (with no interest or fees) 
because of the negative income situation shown on the affordability form. But he asked her 
to get in touch again at the end of the period and said the missed payments will be recorded 
on your credit file and will affect you ability to get credit in the futurefurther missed 
payments will result in a default being registered which will reflect on your credit file and will 
make it harder to get credit in future. The call handler said the card had been cancelled and then checked Mrs Ms understanding of what hed said - and she said she had no questions 
other than  could she use her card if it was cancelled. So  I think the call was clear that a 
default could be registered.
Barclaycard sent the Notice of Default on 20 September 2020. It said You must make a 
payment of £2,411.45 so that it reaches your account before 21 October 2020if you do not 
take the action required by this notice before the date shown then further action set out 
below may be taken against you: Your account will be closed. If this happens you will still be 
required to repay the outstanding balanceWe will send you a formal demand. This will ask 
for repayment of the whole balance. If you do not pay this, we may take further action to 
recover the balance in full.Details of this default on your account will be registered with 
credit reference agencies, which could make it harder for you to get credit in the future. I 
think this made it clear that a default would be registered if payments werent made.
I can see that Mrs M contacted Barclaycard on 22 September 2020 in an email  and said 
My circumstances have not changed. Please increase the time period as requested in my 
previous message, I cannot get through on the phone I am kept on hold for hours". I dont 
know if she had received the Notice of Default at that stage  or whether it was still in the 
post. But Barclaycard wrote back on 23 September 2020 to say Thank you for your recent 
contact. In order to resolve your query, we would like to speak to you. This is so we can 
ensure we provide you with the right support, and any queries you may have can be 
explained fully over the telephone.
I can see that unfortunately, Mrs M didnt contact Barclaycard before the end of the period of 
the default notice (21 October 2020). If she had, its possible that Barclaycard may have 
come to some form of further agreement with her. Or  Mrs M couldve made a payment to 
her account to avoid the default. But as it was, no payments were received before the letter 
advising the default had been registered was sent. 
The next contact from Mrs M was in November 2020  when she complained about the 
default and involvement of the DCA.
Mrs M has said she couldnt get through to Barclaycard on the phone. And I have no doubt 
there were difficulties  as all banks, including Barclaycard, were experiencing long wait 
times because of the pandemic. But I can also see that she did establish contact with them 
several times through email and the phone. And as Ive said  at the critical time  when the 
Notice of Default was sent  Mrs M unfortunately only sent one email, and then didnt 
respond to Barclaycards reply dated 23 September 2020. 
Mrs M asked us to listen to her calls dated 20 July 2020 and 20 August 2020. Weve asked 
Barclaycard for these, but unfortunately they cannot retrieve them. Ive looked at the notes of 
the calls, and in each case they record that Mrs Ms circumstances hadnt changed, and that 
a further 30-day hold was agreed. So  I dont think its likely that the calls would change my 
decision here. 
And so, on balance and in the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint; looking at what 
happened in the round, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman