DRN-3877908
The complaint
Miss K has complained about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. She 
isnt happy that it turned down a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Casualty & General includes its agents.
What happened
Miss Ks pet received treatment from her vet in relation to gastric issues and so she made a 
claim under her pet insurance policy with Casualty & General. But when it looked into the 
claim it turned it down. 
Casualty & General referred to the veterinary history and highlighted Miss Ks pet suffered 
previous digestive issues that it said Miss K didnt disclose and so it added an exclusion to 
cover all claims with respect to the digestive system with effect from the start date of the 
policy and turned down the claim. It said it was entitled to add the exclusion to the policy 
covering digestive issues. And as Miss Ks present claim was in relation to this it was entitled 
to rely on the clause in turning down the claim. Miss K wasnt happy about this and so she 
complained to Casualty & General and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss K and upheld her complaint. She didnt think 
Casualty & General had acted fairly in declining the claim or adding the exclusion to the 
policy. She explained to Casualty & General that it didnt ask Miss K any clear questions 
during the sales process about her pets history before the policy was taken out so she didnt 
think it was fair to add the exclusion which it used to turn down the claim. She asked it to pay 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (plus 8% simple 
interest). And she asked it to remove the exclusion in respect of the digestive system. 
Casualty & General said it agreed the exclusion should be removed as it didnt ask 
reasonable questions about this before the policy was taken out, but it still felt the claim 
should be declined as the condition was pre-existing. So, the matter has been passed to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Casualty & General have gone on to accept that it shouldnt have applied the exclusion to 
the policy in respect of the digestive system I dont propose to go over this again in detail 
now. It is aware of our approach to these issues and that the relevant law here relating to 
misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This sets out remedies an insurer has where a qualifying misrepresentation has 
been made at the point of application. Miss K wasnt asked a question that led her to make a 
qualifying misrepresentation  i.e. one which led to the insurer taking different action 
regarding the terms on which it would provide cover.
Put simply, the question Miss K was asked was a factual one about whether she wanted 
cover for pre-existing medical conditions  and she didnt. So, she answered this question 
correctly and the question didnt ask Miss K to detail any veterinary history or provide any 
further information about this. So, Miss K didnt make a misrepresentation and so Casualty & 
General isnt entitled to add a backdated exclusion to the policy or to decline the claim in line 
with this  which it now accepts.
Casualty & General relied on this exclusion, which it applied retrospectively, when it turned 
down Miss Ks claim. But in accepting it was wrong to have applied the exclusion it has gone 
on to say that the claim shouldnt be met now as it stemmed from a pre-existing condition, 
but I dont think it has sufficient evidence, or undertaken sufficient investigation, to say this. 
Ill explain why.
When Miss K complained to Casualty & General about the decline of the claim she made the 
point that her pets previous issues were different to the present claim. And Casualty & 
General clearly accepted this when it told Miss K We are aware that the conditions are 
unrelated, however - had we been made aware of the previous issues, we would have 
placed an exclusion on your policy for the digestive system. And it went on to say this claim 
was correctly declined as the current condition you are claiming for would therefore fall 
under this. 
Given Casualty & Generals acceptance here that the two issues were not related I tend to 
agree with our investigator that there isnt sufficient evidence to say the two claims, which 
were about eight months apart, are linked and so pre-existing. And as it is accepted the 
claims arent clearly linked I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Casualty & General to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy adding 8% simple interest for the time she has 
been without the money.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd should pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions adding 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And remove the exclusion 
in respect of the digestive system as already agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman