DRN-2734763
The complaint
Mr H complains Lantern Debt Recovery Ltd arent acting fairly when asking him to repay a 
debt for a payday loan.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr H took out a loan with a company Ill call V for £1,000. He complained 
to Lantern in January 2020 as he was unhappy with the affordability of the loan when it was 
granted by V. The complaint wasnt made to V, as they no longer exist.
Lantern said they understood Mr Hs concerns to be that V failed to carry out proper checks, 
the loan shouldnt have been issued and hed like a refund of all the interest applied. Lantern 
said they couldnt refer this back to V but could provide a response based on the information 
given to them when they bought the debt. They said Mr H had declared a monthly income of 
over £3,000, with expenditure of just over £1,000. So, based on that plus information 
recorded on the credit reference agencies Mr H could afford the loan of £1,000. Because of 
this, Lantern said they were satisfied V carried out the necessary checks. Lantern also said, 
after Mr H got in touch about a repayment proposal of £5 per month, he hadnt replied to 
them. Overall, they found no reason to say theyd done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this Mr H asked us to look into things explaining his personal circumstances 
changed after hed taken out the loan, so he got in touch with a company to help him 
manage his debts. He ultimately wrote to all of his creditors offering to repay £5 per month 
as thats all he could afford. And, when receiving paperwork from Lantern noticed theyd 
added £745 to his account for interest on 1 July 2017 which he didnt think this was fair. He 
also had to ask twice for statements  and despite what Lantern had said about the £5 
repayments he was making them, so thought they were incompetent for saying he wasnt.
One of our investigators considered things. She explained we wouldnt hold Lantern 
responsible for when Mr H took out his loan with V and the interest was applied by V not 
Lantern. She could see Mr H was making his £5 repayments  and that Mr H had to ask for 
the statements twice. But, overall, she didnt think Lantern had to do anything more.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said Lantern should have done their own checks before buying 
the loan at what was probably quite a lot less than the balance owing  because of that he 
feels theyve acted irresponsibly. As Mr H didnt agree the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Affordability of the loan
Mr H took out the loan with V, a different company, so we cant consider if Lantern have 
acted fairly in granting the loan, as they werent the ones who did.
I can see Lantern explained the information they were given by V when purchasing the debt 
 and theyve drawn the conclusion V acted appropriately when granting the loan.
As a complaint cant be considered against V I think it was helpful for Lantern to explain the 
information they had. I can see Mr H feels Lantern should have done their own checks 
before buying the loan. I do agree with this, they should do some checks before buying the 
loan. But I dont agree the checks should go as far as Mr H thinks.
The requirements are that Lantern need to be satisfied the debt is properly owed, usually 
have a copy of the credit agreement, and statements to show the account movements. All of 
which has been provided. Mr H has said he did take out the loan, and as Ill explain in the 
next section, Im satisfied the interest is properly owed as well.
Overall then, Im satisfied Lantern have done what they were required to when purchasing 
the loan  and didnt have to assess what V did when Mr H took it out.
Interest of £745 added by Lantern
Mr H has also said £745 worth of interest was added by Lantern. I can see why hed say 
that, because its Lantern that have told him about the interest. I think itll firstly help to 
explain the terms of the agreement Mr H took out, and then Ill explain whether I think the 
interest needs to be refunded by Lantern.
The original credit agreement Mr H took out on 1 September 2016 was for £1,000, over 
30 days, with simple interest being charged at 0.80% per day. This works out to £8 per day 
for the original £1,000 borrowing  and interest continues to be applied if the loan agreement 
isnt repaid on the due date. The agreement also says its a rate capped product and goes 
on to explain this means Mr H wont repay more than twice what hes borrowed if payments 
are missed  in his case it means he wouldnt be required to repay more than £2,000.
The statements provided by Lantern show the loan wasnt repaid by 1 October 2016 as 
required by the agreement  and a default charge was added on 7 October 2016 for this. 
Repayments started in January 2017, and between then and June 2017 Mr H made 
payments totalling £102.72. The statements show an outstanding balance to be repaid as 
£1,897.28. So, if you add up the repayments Mr H has made, plus the amount hes being 
asked to repay, that comes to £2,000. Thats in line with the credit agreement saying he 
wouldnt repay more than twice what he borrowed.
The statements dont show interest being applied daily to the outstanding balance which has 
perhaps also caused some confusion. But, as the amount Mr H is asked to repay is capped, 
it seems Vs approach was to calculate the total amount of interest they could charge, and 
then apply that in one go. I dont know for certain, as we cant ask V, but it does seem to fit 
the information showing.
With all of that in mind, Im satisfied the interest wasnt applied by Lantern and it seems to be 
properly owed by Mr H, so I dont require them to reduce the amount theyre asking Mr H to 
repay.Repayments of £5 per month and statements being asked for twice
Lantern said in their response to Mr Hs complaint he didnt reply to their email about the £5 
repayment offer. Mr H said he did make these repayments.
Ive got the statements, and he did begin repayments of £5 per month as hed said he would. 
So, it appears this was an error by Lantern when replying to Mr H.
Mr H has also said he had to ask for statements twice  but now he has them.
I can see that these issues would have compounded his overall frustration. But as these 
arent outstanding issues, I dont require Lantern to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman