DRN-3166004
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly brought about an unaffordable loan 
for him. He said he doesnt think a suitable amount of due diligence was performed when 
assessing his affordability for this loan. 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr W being provided 
with a loan to pay for a car in May 2016. The loan was for £2,240.00. The agreement had a 
24-month term and the total amount of £3,116.35, including interest and other charges of 
£876.35, was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £65.
Mr Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Zopa hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint 
be upheld. As Mr W disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W could 
afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for him. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, this was Mr Ws first agreement with Zopa. And Zopas enquiries into       
Mr Ws circumstances suggested that he was employed and earning around £25,000.00 a 
year. I also understand that Zopa also carried out a credit check which showed Mr W had 
some existing credit commitments with no significant previous repayment issues. Mr W also 
appears to have told Zopa he was living with a relative and didnt pay any rent for this. As 
there was no concerning information on Mr Ws credit file and the monthly loan repayments 
were low, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Zopa to rely on the information provided. 
I accept that Mr W says he had difficulty making the payments to this agreement and Im 
sorry to hear this. I accept that Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Zopa obtained. For 
example, I know he says that he was living somewhere else where he was paying rent at the 
time he applied for this loan. Equally I accept that if Zopa had gone into the depth of checks 
Mr W appears to be saying it and our investigator should have  such as obtaining bank 
statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  its possible it might have reached 
a different decision. 
But the key here is that Zopa wasnt providing Mr W with a mortgage. It was providing a loan 
for a much smaller sum with low monthly payments. Its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr W is suggesting. 
Im satisfied that Zopa carried out proportionate checks based on the circumstances at the 
time and those checks suggested the repayments would be affordable for Mr W. Indeed, 
while Im not saying that this in itself means that the loan was affordable, Mr W does appear 
to have settled the loan early and well before the loan was due to end. 
So overall I dont think that Zopa treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about 
his agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with any difficulties Mr W might 
have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman