DRN-3418019
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her fee-paying 
Additions and Additions Active packaged bank accounts in November 1999 and July 2008 
respectively.
Mrs K says she was heavily indebted and each time she was sold a packaged account she 
was looking to obtain further credit. 
Mrs K says that she was led to believe the Additions account would help her obtain further 
credit. Mrs K says that she was taking out a loan around the time of the Additions Active 
account and it was implied that she needed to upgrade her account to obtain the loan.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I note that Mrs K has also mentioned that she was in financial difficulties and questions 
Barclays lending decisions and whether it shouldve kept lending to her, given her 
circumstances. However, as this complaint is specifically only about whether the packaged 
accounts were mis-sold, Mrs K will need to raise her concerns about Barclays lending 
decisions separately to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything 
that is available. And having considered everything, Ive not seen enough evidence to say 
that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs K says that she was told that agreeing to the Additions account would improve her 
chances of obtaining further credit and that the Additions Active account was linked to a loan 
she took out in 2008. Whereas Barclays says that it has never been a requirement to have a 
packaged bank account to obtain borrowing.
Additions account 
When the Additions account was sold, Mrs K already had a fee-free account with an 
overdraft facility. Looking at the ledgers that Barclays has provided, I can see that Mrs K had 
an arranged overdraft on her fee-free account since at least February 1998. Therefore, when 
the Additions account was sold to Mrs K, Im satisfied that she was aware that she didnt 
need to have a fee-paying account to obtain or use an overdraft.
In November 1999 the Additions account cost £6 per month. The main benefit of having the 
account at the time, was that it provided an automatic overdraft facility (although its now not 
clear how much that was), which was interest free on the first £100 of the overdraft facility, 
and charged a lower rate of interest (compared to fee-free accounts) on balances overdrawn 
by more than that amount  up to the agreed limit. In addition to this benefit, having the 
Additions account also meant the account holder avoided having to pay a monthly £5 
overdraft usage fee, that was applied to fee-free accounts  which I can see Mrs K was 
regularly being charged before she upgraded to the Additions account. 
So by agreeing to the Additions account, it essentially worked out slightly cheaper for 
someone who was regularly using an overdraft each month, than if they continued with a 
standard fee-free account. And looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has provided, I 
can see that Mrs K was regularly using her overdraft each month before (and after) she 
upgraded to the Additions account. 
Although there is little evidence available from the time, I think the overdraft saving was likely 
the main reason why Mrs K upgraded to the Additions account  rather than because she 
thought she had no choice but to agree to the upgrade or that it would help her obtain credit 
in the future. And I think its likely - being the main benefit of the Additions account at the 
time  that Barclays explained this benefit to her. So even if Barclays had given Mrs K more 
information about the account, I doubt she wouldve been put off from upgrading to it, given 
her circumstances at the time. 
So overall, I dont think the Additions account was mis-sold.
Additions Active account
Mrs K appears to be saying that the Additions Active account sold in July 2008 was 
essentially mis-sold for the same reasons as the Additions account that had been sold in 
1999  although Mrs K also says she agreed to it because she thought the account was 
linked to a loan that she took out at the time.
Looking at the evidence that is available, I cant see that Mrs K took out a loan in 2008. So I 
dont think she agreed to it because she thought she had to do so to obtain a loan. 
Furthermore, there was no change to Mrs Ks overdraft limit around the time she agreed to 
the Additions Active account either. Indeed, Mrs K had been able to increase the overdraft 
limit to £950 in July 2005 i.e. whilst she held the cheaper Additions account. And I can see it 
stayed at the same level until around six months after the upgrade to the Additions Active 
account. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded by Mrs Ks argument that she only agreed to the Additions 
Active account because she was led to believe she needed it to obtain a loan. Nor do I think 
she agreed to it because she thought it would help her increase her overdraft either. On the 
contrary, one of the benefits of the account at the time was that it was interest free on the 
first £300 of any agreed overdraft, and charged a lower rate of interest on balances 
overdrawn by more than this amount  up to the agreed limit. And looking at the account 
ledgers, I can see that the account was operating mostly within the overdraft, and sometimes 
going up to the near overdraft limit, in the months prior to the upgrade. So again, I think its 
just as likely that Mrs K agreed to the account because of the overdraft benefits that it 
provided, rather than because she thought she it would help her obtain further lending.
I also think its the case that if Mrs K thought she was obliged to have a fee-paying account 
to have an overdraft or loan (but didnt actually want a packaged account), then she 
wouldve stayed on the cheaper Additions account, rather than agree to an even more 
expensive one.I note that Mrs K has also said that she had no need for some of the benefits that were 
provided by the account. But as the account was sold as a package, Mrs K was unable to 
pick and choose what it came with. However, as I think that Mrs K agreed to the account 
largely for the banking benefits, I dont think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, even if Barclays had given her even more information about the insurance benefits. 
So based on everything that has been provided, Ive not seen anything that suggests that 
the account mayve been mis-sold. I do understand that with the benefit of hindsight Mrs K 
may now feel that the packaged accounts were poor value for money and that she may now 
regret agreeing to them. But that in itself doesnt mean that they were mis-sold or that 
Barclays was acting unfairly or unreasonably by selling the accounts to Mrs K when it did. 
So overall, having carefully considered Mrs Ks testimony alongside all of the available 
evidence, Im unable to conclude that the Additions or Additions Active accounts were mis-
sold.
I appreciate that Mrs K may be disappointed by this, but I hope she understands the reasons 
why I have reached this outcome
.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Additions or Additions Active accounts 
were mis-sold. I therefore do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman