DRN-2520261
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that he is being charged credit card fees by HSBC UK Bank Plc on an 
account which he believes is not a credit account.
What happened
Mr H has an account which he believes is not a commercial credit card account. However, 
he is being charged fees for this account as if it were a commercial credit card account. Mr H 
wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC looked at Mr Hs complaint. But they confirmed that the account Mr H was questioning 
was a commercial credit card account, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so her referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they thought that they evidence that 
they had available to them, which included a historical statement which referred to the 
account as a commercial card account, confirmed that the account was a commercial credit 
card account. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr H remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr H feels strongly that he hasnt been correctly charged by HSBC in regard to 
this account. But, having completed my review, I find that Ive reached the same outcome as 
our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Of particular note is the historical statement which confirms that the account is a commercial 
card account, as well as references on Mr Hs historical commercial current account 
statements to payments being made to a commercial card account. HSBC also have record 
of Mr H applying for the commercial credit card account at the same time as he applied for 
his business current account in 2008.
In addition, I have listened to a telephone call where Mr Hs wife contacts HSBC to cancel a 
card, and quotes a number starting with 4864 taken from a historical statement. HSBC have 
confirmed that card numbers of this type relate to commercial credit card accounts, and I 
note that a number of this type appears on the historical statement referred to in the 
preceding paragraph.
It follows that its difficult for me to conclude that this account is anything other than a 
commercial credit card account. So, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to 
take any further action at this time.
I understand that Mr H is concerned that HSBC have been unable to produce statements for 
the account. However, it isnt the case that historical statements are retained indefinitely, and 
in cases where there is no activity on the account for prolonged periods  as it appears was 
the case here  it can be the case that statements are not produced at all. So, Im satisfied 
with HSBCs explanation as to why they have been unable to produce statements in this 
instance.
Additionally, I understand that Mr H is concerned that he never received a physical credit 
card for this account but instead received a debit card, and that it was this card his wife 
contacted HSBC to cancel. If this were the case, it would be reasonable to expect Mr H to 
have queried this issue with HSBC before this time and it is not something that I felt 
necessary to have taken into consideration as part of this review. 
While I can understand that Mr H might find this frustrating, I must draw his attention here to 
the rules that govern what complaints this service can and cant look at  in particular DISP 
2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
This rule includes the provision that a complaint must be referred to this service within six 
years of the event being complained about taking place. The rule also includes a provision 
that the event being complained about can be more than six years ago, but that if it is, then it 
must be within three years of when the complainant became aware that a cause for 
complaint existed - or ought reasonably to have become aware that a cause for complaint 
existed. 
Given that Mr H is advising that he never received a credit card on this account, and that the 
account was opened in 2008, it is likely that this rule would apply here, and so likely that this 
aspect of his complaint would not be one that this service would have the power to consider.
I understand that this will not be the response the Mr H was wanting, but all the evidence I 
have available to me confirms that the account in question is a commercial credit card 
account, and so I cant conclude that Mr H has been charged unfairly by HSBC on this basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman