DRN-2548553
The complaint
The complaint is about an Advantage-branded mortgage Mrs M holds with Morgan Stanley 
Bank International Limited. Mrs M is unhappy with how shes been treated in respect of 
financial hardship, mortgage arrears, and arrears charges, going back well over a decade.
. 
What happened
By way of a jurisdiction decision, I have already confirmed that my remit to consider this 
complaint is restricted to the following:
the fairness or otherwise of arrears charges levied since October 2013; and
the fairness or otherwise of Advantages decision in 2019 to seek to enforce the 2012 
possession order.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrears charges since October 2013
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the contract to apply fees 
and charges to cover some of the costs of administering a loan account. Such charges are 
typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.
Applying that approach to Mrs Ms case, our investigator identified a total of £1,392-worth of 
charges that were applied in circumstances wed consider unfair. Ive reached the same 
conclusion myself but insofar as Morgan Stanley has already agreed to refund these and 
more besides (the more besides comprising charges applied before October 2013) theres 
no further award that I need to make.
The action to enforce the possession order in 2019
Advantage petitioned the court in September 2019, Mrs M put in her defence the following 
month. Its not in my remit to interfere with the court process or make a judgement on the 
arguments presented to the court. All I can consider is whether Advantage was acting fairly 
when it initiated the court action.
Im conscious Mrs M has worked very hard to reduce her arrears in the years since the 
original court order. Equally, however, shed made relatively little progress during 2019 itself 
and at the point Advantage initiated the court action, was in breach of a current payment 
arrangement. In the circumstances, whilst Ive no doubt the court action was unwelcome to 
Mrs M, I cant say it was unfair, and thats the test Im required to apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should fairly be resolved by Morgan Stanley Bank 
International Limited implementing, backdated for interest purposes, the refund of arrears 
charges as offered in its final response. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman