DRN-3664826
The complaint
Mr P complains that Target Servicing Limited wouldnt allow him to redeem his help to buy 
shared equity loan.
What happened
Mr P bought his property with the aid of a help to buy loan. Help to buy loans are a 
government scheme to support home ownership, whereby a borrower borrows a percentage 
of the property purchase price in addition to their main mortgage. A help to buy loan is 
secured by way of a second charge and is redeemed by paying back the same percentage  
rather than the same amount  as initially borrowed. Redemption therefore requires an 
updated valuation of the property to determine the amount due. Mr P borrowed 40% of the 
purchase price of his property.
Help to buy loans are lent by Homes England, a government agency. Neither the loan nor 
the lender are regulated. But the lender has appointed Target to manage the loans on its 
behalf. Target is a regulated entity, and in managing the loans is carrying out the regulated 
activities of debt administration and debt collection. As such, Target is responsible for 
answering this complaint.
Mr P decided to redeem his loan and applied to Target to do so. Target told him he would 
need an up to date valuation of the property so Mr P instructed a valuer, who reported in 
March 2021.
In April 2021, Target asked Mr P for an EWS1 form for his property. An EWS1 form is a 
report on the state of the external walls  commonly used where the building is potentially 
affected by combustible cladding and similar issues. Mr P complained about the delay in 
giving him a redemption figure, but also sent the EWS1 to Target in early May 2021.
Target told Mr P that his valuation request was under review and that it couldnt tell him 
how long that would take or when he might be able to redeem.
Following our investigators involvement, Target has agreed to issue a redemption statement 
allowing Mr P to redeem his loan based on the March 2021 valuation. And it paid him £500 
compensation for the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
In carrying out the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and 
exercising the lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting 
payments the lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the 
lender is required to do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the 
lenders behalf. And as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as  
using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Mr P was told to deal 
with Target and Target was presented as being responsible for the management and 
administration of the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as the 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the appropriate firm 
to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, it has an 
obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr P was entitled to redeem the loan at any time, 
either by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as from savings, or by 
taking further borrowing on the main mortgage). The amount required to redeem the loan is 
the same proportion of the propertys value as originally borrowed  40% in this case  as 
determined by an independent valuation, which is final and binding.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in setting the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
In this case, Mr P followed the appropriate process for redeeming this loan, by notifying 
Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an independent valuation of the property. 
He then sent the valuation to Target. Target did not specify a particular valuer to be used, or 
ask Mr P to seek agreement to his choice of valuer. It merely told Mr P to ensure he used a 
qualified valuer to provide the valuation. Im satisfied that this meant Target agreed to Mr Ps 
choice of valuer and therefore that the valuer was properly instructed and, according to the 
terms and conditions, their valuation is final.
The valuation said that the propertys building was affected by cladding. The valuer took that 
into account in determining the valuation. The valuer set a value for the property and under 
the loan terms and conditions that valuation was final and entitled Mr P to redeem his loan. 
There was no entitlement to review and delay the valuation, and so acting fairly and 
reasonably to have performed the lenders obligations, Target ought to have allowed Mr P to 
redeem his loan. And its responsible for the losses that flow from the failure to do so.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr P had the funds available to redeem his 
loan through a combination of his own funds and gifts from family. Had Target accepted the 
valuation and issued a redemption statement in 2021, Im satisfied Mr P would have 
redeemed his loan at that time.
In my view, it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Target didnt do so. 
Acting on the lenders behalf, and acting as a regulated entity with the obligations that 
brings, Target ought to have allowed Mr P to redeem his loan as he was contractually 
entitled to do so.
Putting things right
After many months of telling Mr P his redemption request was under review, and after 
several months of failing to provider our investigator with updates and information he requested, Target has very recently confirmed that it will allow Mr P to redeem his loan 
based on the March 2021 valuation.
I am pleased to hear that it has now agreed to allow Mr Ps redemption to proceed. But for 
the avoidance of doubt, I make it clear that in my view it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances that Mr P should be allowed to redeem his loan, paying no more than he 
would have paid had the March 2021 valuation been accepted at the time. 
And I will direct Target to make sure that happens  if the lender agrees to that, it should 
issue ensure redemption progresses accordingly. But if the lender does not agree to that, 
Target should compensate Mr P for the difference between the redemption figure now and 
the redemption figure as it would have been in March 2021. I understand that a redemption 
statement has now been issued based on the March 2021 valuation, so Mr P will be able to 
redeem at that amount. But I include these directions for completeness as redemption has 
not yet concluded.
Finally, our investigator said that Target should compensate Mr P for the frustration, upset 
and inconvenience caused by the delay in redemption and the need for him to repeatedly - 
without success  contact Target to try and obtain meaningful updates. He said that he 
considered £500 compensation to be fair in all the circumstances. And I agree with that. But 
since our investigator set out his view, there has been further delay and frustration. It has 
taken several months for Target to make its position clear. This has delayed our ability to 
bring finality to the complaint and worsened the upset and frustration Mr P has been caused. 
In the circumstances, I intend to increase the investigators compensation award to £750.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Restart the redemption process so that Mr P can redeem his loan  as I understand it 
has now done.
If  as I understand Target has now confirmed  a further valuation is not required, 
allow Mr P to redeem, setting the redemption figure based on the March 2021 
valuation.
If however a further valuation is required, Target should arrange and pay for the 
valuation to take place within 60 days of acceptance of this decision. If any new 
valuation results in an increased redemption figure compared with the redemption 
figure resulting from the March 2021 valuation, Target should pay the difference 
between the two redemption figures to Mr P at the same time as it issues a 
redemption statement, so that Mr P can redeem his loan paying no more than he 
would have paid in 2021.
Pay Mr P a further £250 compensation, in addition to the £500 it has now agreed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman