DRN-4314711
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of customer service hes received from abrdn Fund 
Managers Limited when managing his investments.
What happened
Mr H complained to Abrdn about several issues including: electronic communication, a 
delayed transfer, the payment of dividends, and the overall level of service received.
Abrdn looked into what happened and whilst not agreeing to all the points raised, offered 
£100 compensation for the level of service that wasnt up to their usual standards.
Mr H remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Abrdn werent responsible for any 
delays with the transfer. However they did think that a larger payment of £250 was fair for 
the overall level of service received. 
Abrdn agreed to this and made the payment of £250 to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed saying he didnt feel the matters had been fully investigated. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has supplied a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr H that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised quite a 
lot of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is 
intended. 
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr H as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint. I need to decide if I think the £250 
already paid is a fair and reasonable payment for what happened.
There has been a lot of correspondence between Mr H and Abrdn about the problems and 
several final response letters have been issued in response to the complaints. The amount 
of correspondence has caused some issues to be addressed more than once and also for 
Abrdn to take longer than expected to look into things. 
Abrdn have paid Mr H £250 for the level of service he received and looking at what 
happened Im satisfied this fairly compensates him for the trouble and upset caused. 
Most of Mr Hs concerns seemed to have started when Abrdn rebranded from a previous 
business name. This affected the website as well as the way in which communications were 
sent. Such decisions and any changes in the way Abrdn conducts business are commercial 
decisions they are entitled to make and not something I can interfere with. What Ive 
considered is how Mr H has been treated. 
Mr H says that he previously received communication electronically and not in writing, but 
this changed when Abrdn rebranded. I havent seen any official agreement saying 
communication would only be electronic, however I can see that Mr H did receive some 
information by email in the past. However its the situation at the moment and moving 
forward that I must consider.
Abrdn have explained the current way of sending information and what they can do for Mr H. 
This might be different to in the past however Its not my place to ask them to change their 
policies and procedures. So even if there was an agreement in place ways of working have 
changed, and Im sorry if Mr H doesnt like those changes. 
Mr H also complained about delays when making a transfer to another product provider. Our 
Investigator gave a timeline of events that I wont repeat again here. Having looked at what 
happened I dont think Abrdn were responsible for any substantive delays, though some 
actions couldve been taken quicker.
There was also an issue with the way in which dividend payments were paid to Mr H. In the 
past these payments were paid directly to Mr Hs bank account. But after a change in the 
classification of some stock the payment type changed to a cheque. It took some time to sort 
out that meant Mr H had to supply his bank details again, which I know caused some 
inconvenience. However Im glad to see that the issue has been sorted and Abrdn have 
confirmed that all dividend payments have now been made. 
Overall I can see Mr Hs frustration with the changes that happened when Abrdn rebranded 
and the level of service he received. It did take some time to sort things out and I think they 
couldve been done quicker in some instances. Some of the changes are business decisions 
that Abrdn are entitled make.   
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the £250 already paid to 
Mr H is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. So I wont be asking Abrdn to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman