DRN-3246733
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) have unfairly refused to write off a 
£25,000 loan that he says was applied for fraudulently by a third party. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
I appreciate that Mr M was asked to download remote access software by the fraudsters, 
which enabled them to apply for the loan. However, it seems most likely that Mr M was 
aware of the finance being applied for in his name. All of his details had been entered 
into the loan application, including details of his bank account that it was to be paid into. 
So, Im satisfied that he was aware and had likely authorised the third-party scammers to 
apply for the loan on his behalf, albeit under the impression that this was to go towards 
his cryptocurrency investment.
The loan was duly paid into Mr Ms RBS account, where it was subsequently transferred 
to his Coinbase wallet (for the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, Im satisfied he 
took receipt of the funds, which were applied for on his behalf by an authorised third 
party, and had the benefit of them. As a result, Im satisfied he can fairly and reasonably 
be held liable for repayment of the loan. 
In terms of whether Sainsburys undertook checks that were reasonable and 
proportionate, I can see that they considered aspects such as credit worthiness and 
affordability, as well as completing identity and bank account checks. Overall, his risk 
rating was considered to be neutral, and Ive seen nothing that would have given 
Sainsburys any cause for concerns that the loan would not have been affordable (such 
as defaults or a large amount of other debt). So, Im satisfied the checks they carried out 
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
I also dont think there were any circumstances presented that ought to have led 
Sainsburys to believe that the loan was being applied for as a result of a scam. The 
details entered into the loan application appear to be accurate, and the loan proceeds 
were paid into an account in Mr Ms name. I understand that Mr M had previously been 
the victim of another scam in 2011. But Sainsburys wouldnt have been aware of this as 
they didnt have a relationship with him prior to him applying for the loan. So, Im not 
persuaded there was any reasons for Sainsburys to suspect that he was at risk of 
financial harm, such that they should have carried out further checks or spoken to him 
before approving the loan. 
Its also arguable whether Mr M would have been upfront about the purpose of the loan 
had Sainsburys spoken to him about it in any event, as I note he told another lender at 
the time (for a different loan that was also taken out as part of the same scam) that it was 
for home improvements rather than an investment. This has also been selected as the 
reason for taking out the Sainsburys loan on the application. I accept its likely that he 
wouldve been told to say this by the scammer, so on balance it seems unlikely that 
Sainsburys would have established the true purpose of the borrowing had they carried 
out further checks, as Mr M wouldve probably continued to follow the scammers 
instructions. Any further questioning by Sainsburys would have therefore been unlikely to 
uncover that Mr M was being scammed. 
I appreciate that the other lender has subsequently decided to write the other loan off. 
But that does not mean that Sainsburys would be obliged to do the same. And based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by refusing to do so.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But Im not persuaded Sainsburys have acted unreasonably here, 
so I wont be asking them to take any further action.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman