DRN-1818690
 
The complaint
Mrs H's complaint is that Link Market Services Trustees Limited ('Link') has unreasonably 
made a claim to recover dividend payments and sale proceeds related to shares it says were 
mistakenly allocated to  her in 2007.
What happened
Link wrote to Mrs H about the matter in June 2019. It referred to the relevant shares, which 
she sold in 2014. It explained that the previous registrar of the shares erroneously 
amalgamated another shareholder's stock of the shares with Mrs H's in 2007, thereby 
increasing her holding by 275 shares and 13 bonus shares (totalling 288 shares) and giving 
her the benefit of the dividend payments (on the shares) she received between May 2007 
and October 2014.
Link appears to have undertaken the registrar role for the shares and it says an audit it 
conducted around June 2019 led to its discovery of the 288 shares misallocated to Mrs H. It 
also says that it is obliged to rectify the error for the shareholder whose shares were wrongly 
taken away. 
Link calculates that Mrs H has received a total of £335.06 (in dividend payments) and 
£1,198.37 (in sale proceeds) from the 288 shares. In its claim to her it initially offered a 
compromise in which she was asked to repay all the dividend payments but around half of 
the sale proceeds. It then compromised its claim further by asking her to repay around half 
of the sale proceeds but only around a fifth of the dividend payments (making a total claim of 
around £600). Link appears to have done this as a gesture of goodwill and as a way to 
prompt settlement of the matter. It also offered Mrs H the option of repayment in instalments.
Mrs H says Link's claim is unfair, mainly because the mistake was not hers, the mistake is 
notably dated (it happened 12 years prior to Link raising the matter with her), her sale of the 
shares in 2014 is also dated and she no longer has the money that is being claimed. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. She noted that Mrs H had benefited from the shares allocated to her in error, that 
she ought reasonably to have noticed the erroneous increase in her shares and that Link's 
compromise offer to her was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H disagreed with this outcome. She denied awareness of the allocation. She said she 
was and is a novice in financial matters (and in monitoring her holding) and that she would 
have expected the error to have been brought to her attention by the registrar -  and for this 
to have been done before she sold the shares. She maintained that Link's  claim is unfair - 
and that it would cause her a financial loss - and queried whether (or not) the claim is time 
barred given that it relates to an error committed more than six years ago. In response to 
this, the adjudicator said Link's settlement claim seeks recovery of the financial benefits of 
the shares (dividends and sale proceeds) from within the last six years only.The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I am conscious to treat the complaint as it has been presented - and not to go beyond this. 
The complaint belongs to Mrs H and it alleges that Link's claim for recovery is unfair. She 
essentially seeks a decision that says it is unfair for Link to pursue the claim (or the 
compromise/settlement claim) against her. This is the matter I address.
Link's claim invokes the legal concept of Unjust Enrichment ('the concept') whereby, in 
simple terms, a party that makes a mistake which gives another party a gain/benefit can 
seek to recover that gain/benefit. Link has not submitted this (or any) claim for determination 
by this service, so it is beyond my remit (and this decision) to determine whether it has 
established a valid case for restitution (that is, a right to recovery) under the concept. 
However, it is inevitable that I consider whether (or not) Link has the basis to pursue/argue 
such a claim and whether it is reasonable for it to do so. 
My conclusion - for reasons given below - is that Link has a basis to pursue a claim for 
restitution (for unjust enrichment) in this case and that it is reasonable for it to do so. For the 
sake of clarity, I repeat that I do not say it has established such a case, but that it has a 
reasonable basis to pursue/argue it, so I disagree with Mrs H's assertion that Link's pursuit is 
unfair.
I appreciate Mrs H's position in the matter. I have taken on board what she said about being 
a novice in the context of monitoring her holding (or its size) and I consider this to have been 
possible. I can also understand why, from  a lay point of view, she is unhappy with the notion 
of being responsible for an error she did not commit. However, also from a lay point of view, 
the error mistakenly gave her a benefit (the 288 shares) she was not entitled to and the idea 
of providing a fair resolution to circumstances like that is, broadly, what stands behind the 
concept.
The key elements of the concept are - that the party in receipt of the benefit must have been 
enriched by it; that the enrichment must have been at the expense of the party making the 
claim; that the enrichment must have been unjust; and that there is no applicable defence to 
the claim. 
The 288 shares Mrs H erroneously received had monetary value and she realised that value 
in the form of the dividend payments she received from them and in the form of the proceeds 
she received upon selling them. The concept covers enrichment through money. There is a 
basis for Link to argue Mrs H was enriched by the shares.
Link is the party making the claim, however the shares belong/belonged to another 
shareholder. Nevertheless, Link's evidence is that it is obliged to rectify the matter for the 
relevant shareholder and this appears to be through compensation. The concept covers 
indirect enrichment, in which a third party owns the relevant  lost benefit, the party making 
the claim (in this case Link) settles the third party's  loss and then pursues a recovery claim 
against the party that wrongly received the benefit (in this case Mrs H). In such cases, the 
enrichment can be found to be at the expense of the party making the claim. There is a basis 
for Link to argue this too.
The concept covers circumstances in which the relevant mistake was a mistake of fact - for example where the relevant benefit is given to someone (in this case Mrs H) under the 
mistaken belief that it belongs to that person and is supposed to be given to that person. 
There is a lack of details on how the previous registrar committed the erroneous allocation of 
shares to Mrs H in 2007. However, the erroneous allocation itself potentially constitutes a 
mistake of fact. The concept considers an enrichment that results from a mistake of fact to 
be unjust (the third element mentioned above). There is a basis for Link to argue that this 
element exists in this case.
The fourth element of the concept (absence of an applicable defence) is directly relevant to 
establishing a valid claim for restitution under the concept - so if the first three elements are 
satisfied and there is no applicable defence the claim will be valid/successful. As I said 
(above), the notion of establishing a valid claim under the concept is beyond my remit. My 
findings on the three elements (also above) show that Link has a basis to - at least - pursue 
the claim (or the compromise/settlement claim) against Mrs H and I consider this enough for 
the purpose of addressing her complaint. 
Overall, on balance, for the reasons given above and given that Link has significantly 
compromised the value of the settlement claim (to around a third, in total, of its original 
value) as a gesture of goodwill towards Mrs H, I do not consider that Link's pursuit 
is unreasonable. Link has also given her the option to repay in instalments.
I understand the defences that Mrs H has mentioned and - under the concept - there might 
or might not be merit in them. However, it is not this service's role to give parties advice on 
defences they might have to legal claims or potential claims by a firm. Link does not appear 
to have started legal proceedings and its position is presently limited to the settlement claim 
it is pursuing. 
A similar point applies to Mrs H's argument about time limits. The present complaint is not a 
legal claim from Link so it could be argued that consideration of time limits for a legal claim is 
premature. It might also  be relevant to note that the Limitation Act 1980 (which addresses 
time limits for legal claims) includes a provision under section 32 that has the potential effect 
of starting the six years time limit in cases of mistake (in contract) from when the mistake 
was discovered, not necessarily from when it was committed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs H's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman