DRN-2278838
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the level of service received from Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited following a subsidence claim made against her buildings insurance policy. 
Reference to Lloyds include their agents. 
What happened
Mr P brought a complaint to our service on behalf of Mrs P. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to them both as Mrs P, unless stated otherwise. 
Mrs P brought a complaint to our service following an ombudsmans final decision on a 
previous complaint relating to her subsidence claim made in 2008. To be clear, I wont be 
commenting on Mrs Ps previous complaint, the outcome reached by the ombudsman or 
events prior to November 2018 when the final decision was issued. 
Mr P has provided very detailed submissions to support Mrs Ps complaint. Given the level of 
information here, and as the background to the complaint is well-known to all parties 
involved, Ive summarised the background as follows. 
Mrs P raised a complaint with Lloyds following delays in progressing her subsidence claim in 
November 2018. Lloyds arranged for a contractor to attend Mrs Ps home to complete a new 
scope of works, but this didnt go ahead. Lloyds later said they didnt have a contractor to 
carry out the repair work and would settle the claim by paying a cash settlement. They also 
told Mrs P they would cancel her policy following the cash settlement because they didnt 
think shed maintained her home to the standard the policy required. 
Lloyds said the cash settlement amount was based on a previous scope of works completed 
in 2012, and alternative accommodation and storage costs for her contents were also 
included. Lloyds said they paid the cash settlement up to the policy limit. This meant Mrs P 
would need to arrange her own alternative accommodation and storage for her contents, 
which she said would be difficult due to her health. 
Mrs P was unhappy with this and felt Lloyds should repair the damage, rather than pay a 
cash settlement. And in any event, she said the cash settlement amount was far too low and 
based on an outdated scope of works, given further damage had occurred to her home. She 
was also unhappy Lloyds said theyd cancel her policy due to poor maintenance.
Mrs P was particularly unhappy with the cancellation because she was told by Lloyds in 
2012 not to carry out any renovation work until the subsidence-related damage had been 
repaired.
Mrs P therefore raised a complaint. Lloyds accepted theyd caused delays from November 
2018 and paid her £250 compensation. They maintained however it was fair for them to cash 
settle the claim as the policy allowed them to. So, Mrs P referred her complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ps complaint. She agreed Lloyds caused delays but felt 
£250 was fair to put matters right. She also felt Lloyds were able to cancel the policy under 
the terms and conditions. 
She said the policy entitled Lloyds to make a cash settlement, so she didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. Though she did say Mrs P should contact Lloyds if further 
subsidence-related repairs were needed that the cash settlement amount didnt cover. 
Mrs P disagreed. As the scope of works Lloyds relied on to cash settle was so out of date, 
she felt they shouldve completed a new one. Mrs P also said shed struggle to manage the 
claim due to her health and thinks Lloyds should arrange alternative accommodation and the 
storage of her contents. At this point, Mrs P had a contractor available who said they could 
do the repair work. 
Our investigator looked into this and discussed an alternative resolution with Lloyds. There 
were several discussions and detailed email exchanges between all parties in attempt to find 
a reasonable resolution to put matters right. Lloyds proposed several options. For example, 
they offered to employ a loss adjustor to oversee the works and facilitate the payments to 
contractors. But they still thought Mrs P should arrange her own alternative accommodation 
and storage of contents. Mrs P didnt agree with this, so our investigator issued another 
assessment. 
She felt Lloyds should pay an additional £800 compensation for the overall claim handling. 
But she remained that Mrs P should arrange her own alternative accommodation, due to her 
specific requirements, and storage of her contents. 
She revisited whether Lloyds had acted fairly by cancelling the policy and changed her mind. 
She didnt think Lloyds had shown Mrs Ps home was poorly maintained  rather, damage 
they referred to was claim-related. So, she recommended they reinstate cover for the 
duration of the claims process. She recommended the following resolution: 
Mrs P should return the cash settlement to Lloyds; 
Mrs P should obtain a quote for the removal of her contents which would be paid 
directly to her by Lloyds; 
Lloyds should complete a new scope of works as the last one was done in 2012 and 
not up to date. So once Mrs P removes her contents, Lloyds need to complete this;
Lloyds to provide evidence that Mrs Ps home is stable and whether underpinning is 
required as part of the scope of works; 
Lloyds to appoint a loss adjustor to oversee the claim including payments; 
Lloyds to discuss the alternative accommodation arrangements with Mrs P; and 
Pay Mrs P a further £800 compensation in total (£250 had already been paid). 
 
Lloyds agreed to the proposed resolution, but Mrs P didnt. Plus, she said her own contractor 
could no longer carry out the works to her home given the time thatd passed.  
Mrs P wants Lloyds to complete the subsidence-related repairs at her home as part of the 
resolution. She also said Lloyds should not only reinstate the policy, but also offer a new 
policy following completion of repairs. In the meantime, Lloyds confirmed the policy limit in 
2008 for subsidence-related repairs was unlimited, meaning a limit doesnt apply for repair 
work. 
As no resolution could be agreed by all parties, Ive been asked to decide. 
I decided to write to both parties in April 2020. Ive summarised the contents of what I said 
then, below. I accepted this has been a very frustrating and distressing time for Mrs P. Particularly given 
she suffers from very severe health conditions and has seen her home suffer progressive, 
substantial damage over the years. 
I said I didnt think it was fair to require Mrs P to take on the management of the claim due to 
her health. By management what I meant was, organising contractors, managing payments 
and taking on the responsibility of progressing repairs. But Ive seen that Mrs P has a rather 
specific list of requirements for her alternative accommodation to suit her needs. So, I said I 
thought Mrs P should arrange that, along with the storage of her contents, because I felt this 
was reasonable  with the help of family member or someone other than Lloyds. 
I explained to both parties that my decision would likely say that Lloyds should complete a 
new scope of works and use their own contractors to carry out repairs  given Mrs Ps own 
contractor is no longer available. This differed to the outcome recommended by our 
investigator, as I understand she was unaware when writing her second assessment, that 
Mrs Ps contractor was no longer available. I agreed a further £800 compensation for claim 
handling was fair and reasonable. 
Lloyds responded to say they accepted what Id said. But Mr P said he wished to provide 
further evidence. Unfortunately, Mr P fell ill shortly after this and asked for several time 
extensions. He then said, once he made a recovery, the person hed contacted for further 
information also fell ill. 
Between April and August 2020, Mr P has asked for extensions to submit further information. 
He said he was waiting on medical evidence to show Mrs P is unable to manage any part of 
this claim, and hed employed a structural surveyor at his own cost. Mr P hasnt provided 
further information since August 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view on what I consider to be fair and reasonable to put matters right here remains 
unchanged to what I informally set out in April 2020. Ill explain why. 
Whats clear to me is the importance of getting the subsidence-related repairs done as soon 
as possible so Mrs P can move on from this and be put back into the position she was in 
prior to 2008. I accept this has been difficult for her, particularly given her poor health which 
Ive no doubt has made things increasingly difficult.  
Scope of works and repairs 
 
Due to the extent of the damage and the time thats passed since the old scope of works 
was completed in 2012, Lloyds need to visit Mrs Ps home to complete a new scope of 
works. Its clear that further, progressive claim-related damage has occurred which will need 
to be included as part of the claim. 
To give Mrs P peace of mind, the scope of works needs to detail the level of work required to 
complete an effective and long-lasting repair  which is ultimately what the policy is in place 
for. I know Mrs P has concerns about the stability of her home due to the length of time 
damage has been occurring. So, Id expect Lloyds to make it clear within the scope of works, 
what work will be undertaken and a likely completion date. Unfortunately, I cant instruct or 
recommend a timeframe here because the new scope of works is yet to be completed. Its not fair in my view for Mrs P to have any involvement in the scope of works, repairs or 
payments to contractors given the extent of the damage and repair work required. Lloyds 
needs to manage this on her behalf. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs Ps own contractor is no longer available to do the work. I dont think 
its fair to require her to try to find a different contractor to do the work that Lloyds will identify 
is needed within the scope of works. Given the extent of the damage, I think its fair to 
require Lloyds here to undertake the work under the policy. Lloyds have confirmed no policy 
limits apply to the claim-related repair work. 
Removal of contents and alternative accommodation 
 
For Lloyds to complete a full scope of works, from previous experience its clear to me that 
all of Mrs Ps contents need to be removed. She will also need to move into alternative 
accommodation whilst the repair work takes place. 
Whilst I do note and sympathise with Mrs Ps severe health conditions, I still think its 
reasonable to request she arranges both these elements of the claim.   
I appreciate Mrs P said shed find this difficult to manage. But with any claim, there are 
elements that require a policyholder to take steps to progress things. If Mrs P finds this 
difficult, Id expect her to find support from a family member or from someone other than 
Lloyds. 
In fact, its because of Mrs Ps health that she has specific requirements for what type of 
accommodation would best suit her needs. So, by Mrs P organising this herself  supported 
by a family member or someone other than Lloyds  I think shell be best positioned to 
ensure her requirements are appropriately met.  
To ensure Mrs P is supported whilst arranging both elements, Ive asked Lloyds to help 
assist wherever they can. But to be clear, Mrs P will need to organise the removal of 
contents, their storage and alternative accommodation arrangements. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time thats passed since the original claim, Ive not been 
given a policy schedule from 2008. But I can see both Mr P and Lloyds provided a policy 
booklet each to us. I can see from the file, Mr P sent us a policy booklet in August 2019 
which he said was the correct policy booklet from the time the claim was made. I can also 
see Lloyds referred to this specific policy booklet within their final response letter in October 
2019. The policy says Lloyds will pay up to £15,000 for any one event under the buildings 
cover, and £10,000 under contents cover. So, £25,000 in total. 
Lloyds provided us with a different policy booklet which they said was the relevant one from 
the time Mrs P first made the claim in 2008. This policy booklet sets out different policy limits 
for alternative accommodation. 
It says Lloyds will pay up to £30,000 for any one event under buildings cover, and £20,000 
under contents cover. So, Mrs P would be entitled to up to £50,000 for alternative 
accommodation costs whilst repair works are undertaken at her home.
As Lloyds said this is the correct policy booklet from the time the claim was made  and has 
a higher limit amount than the policy booklet Mr P provided  I think its fair to refer to this 
one when applying the policy limits for alternative accommodation. Meaning Mrs P will be 
entitled to up to £50,000 in total to cover alternative accommodation costs. 
Overall claim handling I do think Lloyds couldve handled things better here. For example, they caused 
unnecessary delays between November 2018 and February 2019 and they didnt visit Mrs 
Ps home to carry out a scope of work when they said they would. Its clear to me that theres 
been a miscommunication on how the claim would progress and I accept this has been an 
extremely difficult time for Mrs P  over and above whats reasonably expected when making 
a subsidence claim. 
Our investigator recommended Lloyds pays Mrs P a further £800 compensation which is in 
addition to the £250 theyve already paid her. I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint  which Ive said previously.
Lloyds did reinstate Mrs Ps policy. Mrs P thinks Lloyds should offer her a new policy once 
the repair work has been completed. 
Whilst I am unable to direct an insurer to offer cover to a policyholder because that would be 
down to their underwriting criteria, Id expect Lloyds to consider the Association of British 
Insurers agreement on offering continuation of cover following subsidence claims. 
It can often be difficult for a policyholder to get new insurance for a property thats been 
damaged by subsidence. But if an insurer has carried out repairs, they should be confident 
that has resolved the problem. But again, with that said, Im unable to direct an insurer to 
offer cover to a policyholder as ultimately that would be their own commercial decision. 
Other costs
Mr P contacted our investigator in August 2020 to say hed incurred further significant costs 
by employing a structural surveyor, on behalf of Mrs P, to provide further evidence. 
As far as I can see we havent received a copy of their report or findings. I wont be directing 
Lloyds to reimburse these further costs Mr P incurred as he wasnt instructed to do this by 
them, and it wasnt strictly necessary given Id already said Lloyds should complete a new 
scope of works. So, I couldnt reasonably ask them to pay this back. 
Putting things right
For me to require Lloyds to put things right, I must make it clear that my decision is on the 
condition of Mrs P returning the full cash settlement amount paid to her by Lloyds, back to 
them. This is the cash settlement amount they paid to her in full as part of the claim. 
Following Mrs P returning the cash settlement paid under the claim, I require both Mrs P and 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Mrs P needs to obtain a quote to remove her contents a place them into storage, 
which will be paid directly to her by Lloyds upon receipt of the quotation; 
Following Mrs P arranging alternative accommodation, Lloyds need to cover the 
costs of this, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; 
Lloyds need to arrange a visit to complete a scope of works at Mrs Ps home as soon 
as reasonably possible; 
Once the scope of works has been completed, Lloyds will need to employ their own 
contractors to complete the repairs required to make good the subsidence claim-
related damage at Mrs Ps home to the standard of an effective and long-lasting 
repair; and 
Pay Mrs P £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her, if 
this hasnt yet been paid.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
to put things right as set out above, but on the condition of Mrs P returning the cash 
settlement amount paid to her as part of this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman