DRN-2569970
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Ageas Retail Limited administered his motor insurance policy. He 
wants £50 compensation.
What happened
Mr H said Ageas didnt tell him that there was mail for him in his online portal. He thought it 
should have written to him or called him. He thought it should pay him £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill for its poor communication. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ageas 
had sent Mr H an email and a letter on its online portal to make sure he received it. She 
thought Mr H had told Ageas that email was his preferred method of contact. So she didnt 
think it had made a mistake or needed to pay Mr H any compensation. 
Mr H replied asking for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H thought Ageas had communicated with him poorly. He said it didnt warn him to check 
the portal and that there was a letter wanting him to contact it urgently. 
This situation arose because Mr H had written to Ageas asking for a change in his 
repayment arrangements. It responded twice on the same day. Firstly, it sent Mr H an email 
asking for his telephone details and later it sent a letter to his online account asking him to 
contact it. 
Mr H received and responded to this latter email. He restated that his preferred contact 
method was email. Over the next three months, Ageas communicated with Mr H in the same 
way, sending him an email and lodging a copy of this on his online account for his records. 
So I think Ageas correctly communicated with Mr H by his preferred method. I think it took 
steps to ensure that he received its communications. Mr H hasnt said that he didnt receive 
these. 
So I cant say that Ageas has made any errors or needs to pay Mr H any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman