DRN-3415869
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, referred to as Barclays or the business.  
What happened
In April 2000, Mrs H was advised to invest a £100,000 lump sum into the Barclays Personal 
Investment Management portfolio, referred to as BPIM or the investment. In November 
2007, she surrendered the investment and received back £102,848  a 2% return.  
In August 2019, Mrs H complained to Barclays. In a response dated March 2021 Barclays 
upheld the complaint on the basis that Mrs H was incorrectly advised to invest too much 
money (or over invest) in a risk-based investment. Instead, she shouldve been advised to 
invest only £75,000, and retain the £25,000 balance with her cash-based savings.  
Using the Bank of England average fixed rate bond returns  in other words, the average 
return for fixed rate bonds with 12-17 months maturity  it calculated that Mrs H wouldve 
been £10,004.64 better off if shed been advised correctly. So, by way of redress Barclays 
offered Mrs H a total of £18,834 compensation, including 8% simple interest and £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. 
Whilst he agreed with Barclays approach regarding the £25,000, he also said that Mrs H 
had been advised to take too much risk with the £75,000. So, by way of additional 
compensation he recommended Barclays calculate redress using the 50/50 benchmark in 
respect of the £75,000. 
Barclays disagreed with the investigators view. It maintained that Mrs H had been advised 
to invest too much money, and that the portfolio was one that balanced the overall risk with 
the recommended cash reserve that Mrs H held. 
In short, Barclays said:
I would like to reiterate that if we compare £25,000 to a cash comparator, that would mean 
she had a cash reserve of £68,093 or 46% of their total assets, and £75,000 invested across 
the portfolio as follows: - £15,000 fixed interest, £40,500 UK Equities, £12,000 Inti Equities 
(£52,500 in total) and £7,500 liquidity. Considering the cash reserve held outside of BPIM, 
this would be £75,593 at no risk or 51% and the exposure to equities would be approx. 35% 
which we believe to be in line with that of a low risk investor. On top of that, the portfolio was 
actively managed by dedicated fund managers and invested primarily in blue chip 
companies. 
She held the portfolio for 7 years, through volatile moments in the market, and there is no 
indication that the risk that the adviser proposed was too much for her.
The investigator having considered the response, discussed matters with the Investment 
Practice Group (IPG) and re-reviewed the case, was persuaded to change his mind. In 
summary, he said:
The advice to invest £100,000 was unsuitable. 
However, the latest portfolio mix, as clarified by Barclays, isnt unsuitable in the 
circumstances. Therefore, the offer of redress made by Barclays (at the outset) is 
broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She made numerous points but in short, she maintains that she was a no-risk investor and 
therefore she shouldnt have been advised to invest at all, as demonstrated by her tendency 
to keep her money in a cash savings account. She was a sitting target for upselling and had 
it not been for pressure tactics she wouldnt have invested at all.  
Mrs H said that Barclays would prefer not to agree with the investigators view because it 
would mean having to pay out significantly more money. Barclays seems to have plucked 
out of thin air the figure of £75,000 as a basis of its redress. She also doesnt think Barclays 
should be allowed to consider money that isnt part of the investment in order to justify 
selling her something unsuitable. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, I 
agree with the investigators latest conclusion. 
As Barclays has upheld the complaint the key issues for me to consider is redress and 
whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, Im not going 
to uphold this complaint. I think the offer by Barclays is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Hs strength of
feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by her and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best industry practice, but Im
not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats
more likely than not to have happened.
Given the history of this case, I think that all the salient points that could be made, have
been made, by both Mrs H and Barclays, in relation to whether (or not) the recommendation 
was suitable, so I dont intend to repeat them here.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mrs H to arrive at the conclusion that she
was a low risk investor, however Im unable to safely say that this was an inaccuratereflection of her attitude to risk at the time.  
I note low risk was described as:
You are a reasonably cautious Investor. You require a significant proportion of your savings 
to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to accept a 
limited degree of fluctuation in capital value, in return for the potential of modest long term 
growth"
I note it was recorded that her objective was  capital growth with safety, low risk over 
longer in line with Mrs Hs resources, utilising all available tax allowances in the 
circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to say that the recommendation didnt meet that 
need or her objective for capital growth with a low risk.  
Im mindful Mrs H was in her early 50s, working full time and had two dependent children 
and two children in their 20s. She owned her own property outright (without a mortgage) and 
had no other debts or liabilities. I note that she was also in receipt of widows pension and 
had a £500 surplus disposable income. In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont agree 
that Mrs H shouldnt have been advised to invest at all. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im satisfied that she could afford to invest, take a low-risk overall and had capacity 
for loss. 
Just because Mrs H had a tendency to keep her money in a savings account, or was a first-
time investor, doesnt mean she wasnt entitled to take a risk with her money. On balance Im 
satisfied that Mrs H wanted to take a low risk with her money at the time, as evidenced by 
the point of sale documentation. 
Although Mrs H made a small return, its only with the benefit of hindsight that she can say 
she mightve been better off investing in something else. Even if she was, that doesnt of 
itself mean that she was given unsuitable advice at the time. Im mindful that Mrs H was 
never given any guarantees about her level of returns and was aware that her investment 
could go up as well as down. 
In the circumstances, despite what Mrs H says, Im not persuaded that she wasnt willing to 
take any risk at all with her money in order to make a gain. In other words, I dont think she 
was risk averse given her financial circumstances and objective.  
The above notwithstanding, I agree with Barclays that given Mrs Hs overall financial 
circumstances, she was advised to invest too much money or over invest in the BPIM. Im 
satisfied that Mrs H probably wanted to keep a higher than usual capital reserve. So, in the 
circumstances I cant say that the advice to invest only £75,000 wouldve been unsuitable 
given the cash she wouldve had available that wasnt at risk. 
Im aware that Mrs H doesnt think that her finances outside of the investment should be 
included/taken into consideration, but I disagree, because its a part of her overall financial 
circumstances that Barclays is obliged to consider. So, in the circumstances Im unable to 
say that the following mix  based on investing £75,000  is unsuitable: 
£68,093 cash. Roughly 46% of the total savings.
£52,500 equities (in UK and International Equities). Roughly 35% of her total savings.
£15,000 fixed interest. Roughly10% of the total savings.
£10,000 liquidity. Roughly 6.7% of the total savings.As I said, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H wasnt willing to take a risk with her money 
to achieve better returns. Its also possible that if Mrs H had kept her money in a deposit-
based accounts shed still have to shop around regularly to try and find the best rates for her 
account. 
Im mindful of what Mrs H says about being pressured into taking out the investment but Im 
unable to safely say that this was the case. I dont think Barclays was wrong to ask her if she 
wanted to speak to someone about her savings when she asked for an update on her 
savings account  which I understand she did three to four times a year. 
Mrs H had the option to say no at the outset, or even cancel the investment later within the 
cooling off period. Instead she went on the keep it for another seven years and raised no 
issue at all at any point including at the point of surrender. 
I appreciate Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything 
because I think its offer of redress is broadly fair and reasonable.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mrs H what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
The redress offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman