DRN-2665271
The complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC have added a default to her current account which has 
led to her not being able to re-mortgage at a lower rate.
Mr M was originally also involved in this complaint. But sadly, he passed away after the 
complaint had been made.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 2 March 2021. In it, I set out whatd 
happened, and the outcome I planned to reach. Ive copied sections of the provisional 
decision below, and they form part of this final decision:
In January 2019 Mrs M received letters from Lloyds explaining she needed to make 
payments into the account to bring it back into its arranged overdraft facility. She did that.
But later on, she found out her account had been closed  and because she understood 
shed paid what she needed to, she thought this was unfair. So, she complained to Lloyds.
In April 2019 Lloyds said theyd sent her at least ten letters in the last year  and because 
her account was in an unarranged overdraft, they wrote to her on 22 January 2019 giving 
her two months to clear the arrears. And, on 26 February 2019, Lloyds said they reminded 
her about this. Lloyds said although Mrs M had credited £50 on 29 January, this didnt clear 
the arrears, and there were no other payments. So, on 4 April 2019 they closed Mrs Ms 
account, and registered a default. At this point any overdraft fees should have stopped, but 
they didnt. So, Lloyds also refunded £178.80 worth of fees that shouldnt have been 
charged and offered Mrs M £50 as an apology.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this. She explained shed not got any of the ten letters Lloyds said 
theyd sent  but had received ones dated 1 January, and 22 January. She said on both 
occasions she paid in money to clear the arrears. Mrs M says the letters only say the 
account would be closed, and sent to recoveries, it doesnt say a default would be 
registered. Mrs M says this default has caused her to pay an extra £450 a month on her 
mortgage because now she cant get a new deal  and doesnt think its fair Lloyds can just 
register a default which will have a significant impact on her life for the next six years. 
Because of this, she asked us to look into things.
Our investigator ultimately decided to uphold the complaint. He said the default should be 
removed from Mrs Ms credit file, and compensation of £150 should be paid.
Mrs M accepted these elements of her complaint, but also argued Lloyds had caused further 
financial loss. She explained shed not been able to re-mortgage because of the default 
which had directly led to a higher mortgage payment. And she let us know her company car 
lease finance, that was due for renewal, has been rejected which is now costing her £40 
more a month. 
Lloyds ultimately agreed to remove the default and pay the £150 compensation. But they 
didnt agree to pay for the additional losses Mrs M incurred  saying they hadnt been given 
enough information. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before formally considering the specifics of the case, I asked our investigator to gather 
further information from Mrs M to give to Lloyds. Following this Lloyds agreed to remove the 
default, pay Mrs M mortgage overpayments of £6,941.68, also pay Mrs M 8% interest on 
each payment, and a further £750 compensation.
Our investigator spoke to Mrs M to understand if shed be prepared to accept this offer. She 
was very pleased she was getting her mortgage overpayments back, but after careful 
thought just didnt think the compensation was enough. She said she felt effectively £250 per 
year, as the matter has gone on for three years, wasnt really enough. She said three years 
of hardship, with the difficulties of not being able to get credit, and the challenges caused to 
her business, wouldnt be fair. She explained that because Mr M has unfortunately passed 
away shes now only got one income instead of two  meaning she cant re-mortgage with a 
high street lender. She said she does just want to get this done, but just doesnt feel £750 is 
enough bearing in mind Lloyds didnt accept any responsibility until right at the end.
Our investigator did explain we cant factor in the challenges caused to the business as its a 
separate legal entity  but as Mrs M didnt accept the compensation its now down to me to 
decide whats fair.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
FIRST PARA
Lloyds have agreed to remove the default, refund Mrs Ms mortgage overpayments plus 
interest, and pay £750 compensation. 
Mrs M has accepted the mortgage overpayments element of this complaint, but has also 
said shes now tied in to her mortgage lender  at a high rate  until shes repaid the 
mortgage. This is because now shes on her own she cant afford a better mortgage. She 
knows Lloyds cant be held responsible for Mr M passing away. But had they acted correctly 
earlier, she and Mr M could have got a different mortgage at a lower rate.
Ive considered whether I think Lloyds need to do anything further in this regard. They have 
agreed to refund 20 overpayments totalling £6,941.68 and pay 8% interest on each 
payment.
I do accept Mrs Ms point that had Lloyds not incorrectly applied a default then she and Mr M 
would have re-mortgaged elsewhere. But as Mrs M says, Lloyds couldnt have known Mr M 
would sadly pass away meaning this wasnt an option for her anymore. So, I think the 
amounts Lloyds have said theyll refund is fair, and dont require them to do anything further 
here. But I note she was primarily saying this to explain why she didnt think the 
compensation of £750 was fair.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs M had with our investigator where she explained why she felt 
£750 wasnt enough as I wanted to hear from her in her own words the impact this has had. 
Mrs M effectively broke the compensation down to £250 per year for the difficulties shes 
experienced and explained its had an impact on her business. As our investigator explained 
we cant consider the challenges her business faced in this complaint as thats a separate 
legal entity.But I do agree the issues Mrs M has experienced herself are quite substantial. Shes 
explained about not being able to get credit which has impacted her, and that this has been 
going on for a long time. In addition, Mrs M is going to be reminded for some time, as a 
result of being tied in to this current mortgage, of all of the difficult issues that have come up 
in this complaint.
Had Lloyds handled Mrs Ms complaint appropriately when it was first raised, all of these 
issues could have been avoided. For those reasons, I think £1,500 compensation is a fairer 
reflection of what Mrs M has gone through.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M said she thought everything made sense, but her calculations for her mortgage 
payments only went up to 1 February 2021. So, she asked if March, and potentially April if 
the settlement payment went past that date, could be included.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and said theyd make the payment upon receipt of 
Mrs Ms acceptance and account details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mrs Ms request for the additional mortgage payments to be made but 
having done so I dont think its necessary to tell Lloyds to refund these.
I did consider, as part of issuing my provisional decision, whether itd be appropriate to ask 
Lloyds to make further payments towards Mrs Ms mortgage as Ive explained above.
I can understand why Mrs M would like Lloyds to refund further mortgage overpayments. 
She feels shes been treated very unfairly and put in a very difficult position. I dont 
completely disagree with Mrs Ms sentiments here. But I also need to factor in that Lloyds 
have chosen to refund almost £7,000 worth of mortgage payments when they could, 
perhaps, have argued they werent required to refund quite as much.
I agree with Mrs M that Lloyds could have done more earlier on. But I think overall the refund 
of mortgage payments with interest already offered, plus the compensation, is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and order Lloyds to:
Refund Mrs Ms mortgage overpayments up to 1 February 2021, calculated at 
£6,941.68
Pay 8% simple interest on each payment, from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement*
Pay Mrs M £1,500 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Lloyds must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if 
she asks them for one.
My final decisionIt follows I uphold this complaint, and order Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman