DRN-2623171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about their car insurer Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited, as it took it nearly a year to progress a claim to repair their car.
What happened
There was an accident in November 2019; a third-party vehicle collided with Mr and Mrs Ws 
stationary car. Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Advantage; they provided photos, internet 
map details, a sketch of the scene as well as detailing what had happened, including that the 
police had attended and that the third-party driver had accepted liability.
Advantage began to deal with the claim  but the third-party insurer disputed liability, and 
Mr and Mrs W didnt want Advantage to repair their car until the liability issue was resolved. 
In February and April 2020 Advantage said it may have to settle the claim on the basis of 
shared liability. Mr and Mrs W then provided a police report which Advantage shared with 
the third-party insurer. But the third-party insurer still denied its driver was at fault. Mr W put 
forward his own argument for why he was not at fault, based on all the evidence which 
Advantage had seen. Subsequent to this the third-party insurer accepted full liability.
Mr and Mrs W were pleased that their claim had finally moved on. But they were unhappy 
about the time it had taken to progress and particularly the way in which Advantage had 
persisted in trying to settle it on a shared liability basis. They complained to us.
Our investigator felt the claim had been handled in a relatively timely manner. But that 
Advantage hadnt appropriately represented Mr and Mrs W in handling the claim. He noted 
that Mr Ws arguments, which had ultimately caused the third-party insurer to accept full 
liability, were based on the same evidence Advantage had been privy to. He felt Advantage 
should have acted on that and that because it hadnt Mr and Mrs W had been caused 
distress and inconvenience. He said Advantage should pay £200 compensation.
Advantage said it felt this was unfair. Advantage said it wasnt responsible for how or when 
the third-party chose to accept liability. It also pointed out that it had only been in April 2020 
that Mr and Mrs W had provided it with a copy of the police report, which it had shared 
straightaway with the third-party insurer. Our investigator responded and passed the 
complaint for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage isnt responsible for the actions or decisions of the third-party insurer. But it 
needs to ensure that it handles the claim by its policyholder in a fair and reasonable manner.
Advantage does have the right to accept and settle claims with third-parties, whether or not 
its policyholder agrees with its decision. But it needs to ensure it makes decisions fairly. It 
shouldnt just take an easy option of settlement, especially not when such will likely prejudice 
its policyholder.
Ive noted that Advantage shared details with the third-party insurer in a timely manner. But it 
didn't present its arguments for why the third-party driver was at fault for the accident in a 
coherent manner until Mr W did so for it. Rather Advantage just seems to have put the 
information forward and when the third-party insurer raised concerns about the validity and 
persuasiveness of that evidence, Advantage just accepted those concerns. It then told 
Mr and Mrs W that the situation was not clear cut and a position of shared liability would 
likely have to be accepted. I dont think that was a fair or reasonable way for Advantage to 
handle things. 
Fortunately, on this occasion, Mr and Mrs W were able to put a cohesive argument together 
themselves, which Advantage forwarded to the third-party insurer and the third-party 
accepted liability. That meant that Mr and Mrs Ws loss and upset as a result of Advantages 
failure was limited. But Im satisfied that they should receive compensation.
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman