DRN-4033725
Complaint
Mr K complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2019, Mr K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr K decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ks behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Allium. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr K to 
enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The system would be self-funding
Mr K would save significant sums on his electricity bills. 
The financial benefits received from the system would provide more than enough 
return to cover the finance agreement repayments costs  and would enable Mr K to 
redeem the finance in 3-4 years. 
Mr K would receive free gas 
Allium, failed to carry out a credit assessment 
Allium didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr K or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr K and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The CMC says that Mr K was not taken through the sales document relied on by 
our investigator. If he had been taken through the quote, he wouldnt have 
purchased the system as it was not an attractive investment given the timescales 
involved before the system would break even.
The CMC added we had not taken into consideration the verbal representations 
made by Ps agent that induced Mr K into the purchase. 
The CMC referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to Mr K 
and this was upheld in the consumers favour  but it was for a different 
consumer against a different provider.
The CMC has also pointed out that many consumers have raised complaints over 
the selling of solar panels, and many have been previously upheld in favour of
consumers.
A regulatory body had previously found against P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr K could claim against Allium, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr K and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr K says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Allium, has told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P 
would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the system, 
prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that Ive considered carefully the comments made by the CMC regarding the
outcomes of other cases, including the court case mentioned as well as its concerns over 
action taken by other regulatory bodies. But each case brought to our service is assessed on 
the individual merits of that case. And Im satisfied that the documentary evidence in relation 
to Mr Ks specific sale (which he has signed) is a reliable record of the information he was 
given at the time of sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr K was told that the cost of the system was £13,343.00. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £13,343.00. The total amount of credit is £13,243.00 (after 
deducting a despot of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£24,962.06.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £138.29. But I note Mr 
Ks monthly payment is marginally different at £138.13  but I dont think this difference 
make the quote mis-leading and doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint.  
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £13,343.00, it 
would cost Mr K more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr K has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the financial benefits produced by the system. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
Mr K bought his system in August 2019 after the Feed in Tariff scheme closed to new 
applications  so the benefits produced by his system are solely in the form of savings on 
energy bills. 
The What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the
Performance of his system over 30 years.
I think that the table is clear in setting out what Mr K could expect to receive per year from 
the system. The expected year one electricity savings is £200.69 and, when taking into 
account the extras chosen by Mr K the combined income and savings in year one is shown 
as £456.23. And his monthly return is only £38.02. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £138.29 which is £1,659.48 annually. As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
financial benefits produced by the system. 
Theres a section headed All our payment options with several tables showing repayments 
over various different loan terms. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is the 
length of the loan that Mr K entered into with Allium. This table shows the loan as repayable 
in 180 monthly payments of £138.29. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £138.29, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the return Mr K could expect to receive from the system, by
way of savings on energy bills, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments.
And it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of
savings, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments throughout the term of
the loan. 
Ive carefully thought about the Mr Ks version of events. However, as Ive found that the
quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan
repayments would be covered by the savings alone.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr K was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr K could
expect to receive would have exceeded the cash price of the system, and by year 25, the
total amount payable under the loan agreement including the finance charges. 
I would add that at year 4, the benefit amount is just over £2,000  which is significantly less 
than what Mr K paid for the system. So I dont think its likely that he was told the financial 
benefits would enable him to recoup his cost in 3-4 years.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr K that the system would pay for itself by 
year 25, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr K. From Mr Ks meter reading, I can see that his system, on 
average, has generated slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr K couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr K entered into the contract.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Allium has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im 
of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr K to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Allium did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman