DRN-3785432
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy and held him at fault for the related accident. Mr S is represented in this 
matter by his solicitor, Mr H.
 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a car accident when he collided with a parked car. The police attended 
and Mr S tested positive for alcohol at the roadside and six hours later. The police didnt 
prosecute Mr S for drink-driving. But Admiral declined his claim and accepted liability on his 
behalf in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
likely, due to the reading taken six hours later, that Mr S was over the legal alcohol limit for 
driving at the time of the accident. She thought Mr S hadnt always co-operated with 
Admirals investigators. And she thought it had settled the liability fairly and reasonably.
Mr H replied that he wanted an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision. He said Mr S had always co-operated with Admiral and that back 
calculations of alcohol were unreliable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S made a claim when he collided with a parked and unattended car. Admiral said it had 
declined Mr Ss claim for two reasons. Firstly, it thought it more likely than not that he was 
over the legal blood alcohol limit at the time of the accident. And also, it said he had been 
uncooperative with its claims assessors. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
Admiral said Mr S had been in breach of General Condition 11 of his policy. This states:
ll. Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens while any insured person is driving and;
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without lawful 
reason.
No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting the 
obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your policy.
Mr S first told Admiral that he hadnt consumed any alcohol within the previous 48 hours. 
Admiral said Mr S had told it three times that he had 0mg alcohol in his blood stream when 
tested by the police at the roadside. 
But Admiral later obtained a police report which showed that Mr S had tested positive for 
alcohol at the roadside. He had then been tested again at the police station six hours later 
where his reading was 32mg. The legal limit is 35mg. So Admiral thought it more likely than 
not that Mr S would have been over the limit when he collided with the parked car. 
Mr H said this later reading was unreliable because people process alcohol at different rates. 
He said Mr S hadnt been found to be over the legal limit. But Im satisfied that Admiral is 
entitled to rely on civil law which doesnt require a criminal standard of proof, but a decision 
based on probability. 
And, because of the high reading six hours later, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable 
to conclude that Mr S would have been over the limit when he collided with the parked car. 
And so I think Admiral reasonably declined his claim because this was a breach of the 
policys terms and conditions. 
Admiral said Mr S hadnt always been cooperative with its assessors. It said this was a 
breach of General Condition 2 of his policy. This requires Mr S to:
co-operate with our investigation.
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy 
being cancelled.
I can see that Admiral was concerned that Mr Ss son was pretending to be him in calls. He 
was a named driver on the policy, so he could have represented his father. But he 
maintained that he was Mr S. He later admitted that he had been calling Admiral whilst 
pretending to be his father. He said this was because Mr S had limited English. But I think it 
was unfortunate that Mr Ss son didnt explain this to Admiral at the time. 
Admiral also said that Mr S hadnt co-operated with its assessor. He refused appointments to 
meet face to face with them. I can see that he gave incorrect information about the roadside 
breathalyser test. And I can also see that the account provided by Mr S of what happened 
after the accident differed from what the police reported. 
So Im satisfied that Mr S hadnt complied with the policys requirement for him to cooperate 
with Admirals investigation. And so Im satisfied that Admiral had a further reason to decline 
the claim in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr S was unhappy that Admiral held him at fault for the accident. Mr S said he had been 
driving, in the dark, down a narrow lane and hit a parked car that had obstructed his way. 
But Admiral said that Mr S had collided with a legally parked and unattended car. It said it 
wouldnt be able to successfully defend the matter in court. So it had held Mr S at fault. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing an accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr S the same as someone else in his 
position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
Admiral considered Mr Ss version of events and the accident location. I can see that there 
was substantial damage caused to Mr Ss car by the collision so that it was declared a 
Category S total loss. Admiral thought Mr S was fully liable as the other car had been legally parked and was unattended at the time. It thought it would be unable to defend the matter in 
court. 
Im satisfied that this was a reasonable conclusion for Admiral to reach after considering the 
evidence available. And Im satisfied that Admiral was entitled to make this decision in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that it did anything wrong or 
needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman