DRN-4143360
The complaint
Mr S complains that a cheque hed sent to a third-party had been debited to his HSBC UK 
Bank Plc but wasnt credited to the beneficiarys account.
What happened
Mr S says he posted a cheque to the beneficiary in October 2022. The cheque was debited 
to Mr Ss bank account on 18 October, but in February 2023 the beneficiary made Mr S 
aware he hadnt received the cheque. Mr S told HSBC what had happened. HSBC traced 
the cheque to through a third-party bank and received confirmation the cheque had been 
paid into an incorrect account. The amount of the cheque was re-credited to Mr Ss account 
on 17 February.
In March, Mr S complained to HSBC that hed received no correspondence confirming what 
had happened to the cheque and didnt know why the amount had been refunded or why the 
beneficiary hadnt received the funds. HSBC apologised it hadnt told him what had 
happened and offered to make a new payment to the beneficiary. Mr S said he would 
arrange to pay the beneficiary by cheque.
Mr S brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that HSBC hadnt made an error as 
a third-party bank had established the cheque had been paid into the wrong account. HSBC 
had apologised for the inconvenience it had caused Mr S by not telling him why the cheque 
had been re-credited, so the Investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything else.
Mr S asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything else. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that the cheque in question was debited to Mr Ss account in October 
2022. Mr S believes that HSBC should have been aware that the cheque hadnt been paid 
into the intended beneficiarys account, but I dont think this is reasonable. HSBC paid the 
cheque as presented and until HSBC was told it had been credited to an incorrect account 
by the third-party bank or Mr S, I cant say it would have known what had happened. When 
Mr S made HSBC aware the beneficiary hadnt received the cheque HSBC traced the 
cheque through the third-party bank where it had been deposited. HSBC told Mr S to call 
back in 10 days for an update as it was likely the trace would be competed then. Shortly 
after this call, the third-party bank replied to the trace and explained the cheque had been 
deposited in an incorrect account. HSBC re-credited the amount of the cheque to Mr Ss 
account.
Although Im satisfied HSBC took reasonable steps to quickly put the matter right for Mr S, it 
has recognised that it didnt tell Mr S what had happened to the cheque and what it had 
done to put things right. This meant Mr S had to call HSBC again in March to find out what 
had happened, and to make other arrangements to ensure the beneficiary received the 
funds due. HSBC apologised to Mr S in this call and said Mr S shouldnt have needed to 
make an additional call and also offered to make the payment to the beneficiary from his 
account. I think the apology HSBC provided is a fair and reasonable remedy as it reflects the 
short-term inconvenience caused to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons provided above, Ive decided that the apology HSBC UK Bank Plc provided 
Mr S is a fair and reasonable remedy to the complaint, and I wont be asking it to do anything 
else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman