DRN-3419361
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the execution price Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HLAM) obtained for her, following her stop loss sale instruction of an investment 
trust she held on their platform. 
Mrs B is represented with this complaint by her husband Mr B, but for ease I refer to all 
actions and comments as those of Mrs B. 
What happened
Mrs B placed her stop loss order with HLAM in the morning of 23 February 2021. It was to 
sell £3,500 of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust shares if the price hit £12 per share. This 
order was triggered later that day. 
HLAM say that due to increased market volatility, there was no electronic price and so the 
deal had to be processed manually. The execution price they got was £11.3293.
Mrs B was unhappy with this and the lower sales proceeds than she was expecting. HLAM 
said responded to say that a stop loss price isnt guaranteed and the terms and conditions 
state that a price can continue to fall until the sale is executed. 
Our investigator looked into it and he felt that HLAM had acted fairly. He said that HLAM had 
sufficiently explained that a bid price might be considerably lower than a stop loss price. He 
felt HLAM had done enough to act as quickly as possible on the day of the deal and he said 
that Mrs B should have placed a sale limit order where the deal wouldnt have been 
executed below a certain price. 
Mrs B responded to say that they werent made sufficiently aware prior to the stop loss 
order, that the execution price might be so much lower than the stop loss price. She also 
said that HLAM had not done enough to limit her losses. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mrs Bs frustration here. She placed a sale order for these shares, once 
they hit a certain price. This was to ensure that she mitigated any losses. However, the 
shares were sold for considerably less than the price she had set. 
However, I do think HLAM made sufficient attempts to make it clear to Mrs B that this might 
happen, prior to her order. Her account terms and conditions advise her to read the stop loss 
and limit order terms and conditions on the HLAM website. These state that if the bid price 
is lower than your Stop Loss price when we attempt to place your deal, we will continue to 
place your deal at the lower price. 
Despite this, I wouldnt ordinarily expect the execution price to be considerably below the 
order price. However, in this case I think there were extenuating circumstances and I think 
HLAM acted fairly to secure the best sale price for Mrs B that it could. I say this because 
when this particular order was made, there was significant market volatility and no electronic 
bid price for these shares. I accept that once it had fallen to £12 a share (Mrs Bs stop loss 
order price) HLAM had to manually process the order. This obviously takes longer, and 
meant that by the time it was executed, the price had fallen even further. 
HLAM have shown that the deal was triggered at approximately 10am. It had to be 
processed manually and although HLAM say they expect that to be done within a few 
minutes, it wasnt executed for almost two hours. This was due to the market volatility and 
the high number of trades being made. The dealing team process them in order of receipt. 
The execution price was £11.32. Whilst this was lower than the order price, it was higher 
than the low price that day of £11.16. HLAM state in the terms and conditions that they dont 
accept any liability for any loss or potential loss you may suffer if there is a delay in 
execution of a limit or stop loss order. 
In summary, Mrs Bs stop loss order didnt have a limit price. This meant that the execution 
price could be considerably lower than the order price, as it was here. Whilst I sympathise 
with Mrs B and understand this isnt what she was expecting, I think HLAM acted fairly and 
in line with their terms and conditions. I am also satisfied that they took all reasonable steps 
to act as quickly as they could to limit any potential loss for Mrs B. Unfortunately, due to 
market conditions, it took longer than would be expected. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman