DRN-2167710
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt sent her the evidence she needs to support
a claim for a large sum of money. Mrs Ms complaint is brought to our service by
professional representatives, working on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs M said she lent her late brother £99,500 on 8 March 1999. She said he had promised to
repay this money on the sale of his business. He failed to do that, but did make payments for
some time at £200 per month, which Mrs M says were interest payments. He stopped paying
this regular amount in October 2014.
When Mrs Ms brother died, she asked his estate for the money hed owed her. Solicitors
working for the estate asked for evidence of the money paid, and of cheques paid into
Mrs Ms account at £200 per month from him.
Mrs M said she had asked HSBC for this, and it hadnt provided this evidence for her.
Mrs Ms representatives said HSBC should be able to produce statements, copy cheques or
other electronic information, going back to the start of 2014, so she could provide evidence
of the loan.
HSBC showed us that Mrs M had previously asked for statements dated around the time the
loan was made. It has explained that it cant supply these, in final response letters which
Mrs Ms representatives have accepted are now out of time for our service to consider. It
said in a letter dated 23 July 2019 that there was no facility for cheques to be issued on this
account, and HSBC doesnt hold copies of cheques beyond seven years.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said this was a savings
account, no cheque could be issued from it. And HSBC had said that even when accounts
do have a cheque facility, it still couldnt evidence a search for the cheques, it could just do a
manual check of statements. Our investigator didnt think this was an unreasonable
response from HSBC. She said banks arent required to keep information indefinitely.
Mrs Ms representatives said it wasnt the case that the bank couldnt provide evidence from
its records. It should manually check statements for the account for evidence of payments by
cheque issued from Mrs Ms account.
Because Mrs Ms representatives, on her behalf, didnt agree with our investigator, the case
was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
It has been a little trickier to follow the issues in this complaint, as it hasnt always 
been clear what Mrs Ms representatives are asking HSBC to supply. That does 
seem to me to have shifted somewhat in the letters Ive seen. Mrs Ms 
representatives may like to submit more evidence on this, so Ill set out what Ive 
seen already.
On 9 July 2018, Mrs Ms representatives asked HSBC for account statements from 
1999, around the time she said a cheque was issued.
On 6 August 2018, Mrs Ms representatives asked HSBC for the evidence it had 
requested, which it then said was a counter cheque written by a staff member.
On 12 December 2018 Mrs Ms representatives said to HSBC you have previously 
supplied statements for 2005-2017 inclusive.
On 18 January 2019  Mrs Ms representatives said to HSBC the information we 
require is  quite straightforward namely statements and copy cheque book stubs of 
her account cover the period 1st March 1999 to the last day of May 1999.
On 11 March 2019, Mrs Ms representatives said they were asking for a copy of the 
cheque, not for statements. 
So I think there may have been some confusion about what Mrs Ms representatives 
would like HSBC to supply.
When this complaint came to us, we were told that Mrs M hadnt been able to obtain 
from HSBC either evidence of the payment out to her late brother, or of cheques from 
him paid into her account at the rate of £200 per month. From what HSBC has said, it 
may still have some records of cheques paid into the account in the last seven years, 
and I could see how this could be helpful to Mrs Ms case, as I understand it. But, on 
the evidence Ive seen so far, I cant see that HSBC has ever been asked to supply 
copies of cheques paid into the account, which Mrs M says were paid each month 
until October 2014. So I couldnt uphold a complaint about failure to supply this 
information, on what Ive seen so far. If HSBC hasnt been asked for this, then our 
service may not be able to consider this part of this complaint. 
I can see that Mrs Ms representatives appear to have acknowledged receipt of 
statements from 2005-2017.
Mrs Ms representatives have now agreed they are out of time to complain about the 
failure to provide statements from early 1999, because a final response letter was 
issued about this, and Mrs Ms representatives didnt complain to our service within 
six months of that. 
So that leaves the question of the cheque that Mrs M says she paid to her brother in 
early 1999. I dont think its likely that a personal cheque was issued by Mrs M from 
this account, as HSBC has explained it was a savings account, and didnt have a 
chequebook. I think I can consider a complaint about HSBCs failure to supply a copy 
of the counter cheque that Mrs M says was drawn on the account in early 1999.But I dont think that complaint should be upheld. HSBC has told us it keeps copies of
cheques for seven years. The cheque Mrs M wants a copy of was issued over twenty 
years ago. I dont think its surprising that HSBC doesnt have that now.
HSBC has repeatedly said it doesnt have statements for this account going back as 
far as 1999. Its internal notes say the same. So, although Mrs Ms representatives 
have said that HSBC could manually check its records, I dont think HSBC can do 
this. And Im not aware of any more that HSBC could do now to help Mrs M to 
evidence the issue in 1999 of the original cheque from her to her late brother, which 
HSBC shouldve offered to do and hasnt.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman