DRN-2810650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK 
(which Ill refer to as AIG) declined their travel insurance policy claim and that it mis-sold the 
policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs G bought flight tickets for her and Mr G from a travel booking website 
(which Ill refer to as E) to fly to the USA on 13 March 2020 returning 19 March 2020. At the 
same time she bought a travel insurance policy from Es website which insured her and 
Mr G. The policy insurer was AIG.
On 10 March 2020 Mrs G received an email from E saying she should check her travel 
options with it due to the developing Covid-19 situation. On 11 March 2020 the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Mrs G says she wanted to cancel 
the trip or change the dates and over the next two days spent over five hours on the phone 
trying to speak to E without success. She also says Es website function to manage the trip 
wasnt working. 
Mr and Mrs G decided not to take the flight on 13 March 2020. They say at that time the 
advice on the UK government website was to avoid travel abroad unless necessary, and 
their trip wasnt. They also say a few days before the trip the USA government banned 
European then UK flights from entering the USA.
Mrs G says she couldnt access the policy document on-line in March 2020 and it took her a 
long time to find AIGs details to make a claim for the flight costs. She also says the policy 
AIG sent her then didnt look like the policy when she bought the policy which had contact 
details in the USA.
AIG declined the claim. It said the UK government or the WHO advised against travel to the 
USA only after Mr and Mrs Gs intended departure date so the claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. It also said the policy terms would have been on Es website to read before 
Mrs G bought the policy and an email with the policy had been sent to her when she bought 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs G complained to us. In summary they say AIG unfairly declined the claim as the 
policy terms covered their situation and the policy sale wasnt correct. They want AIG to pay 
the cost of the flight tickets and the cost of their phone calls to the USA contact numbers and 
to E. Mrs G also said shed been very distressed and inconvenienced trying to get the 
claimed paid.
Our investigator set out the correct details for when the UK government had advised against 
all but essential travel and the USA government restrictions occurred. She said AIG had 
fairly declined the claim and the policy hadnt been mis-sold. She explained to Mr and Mrs G 
that we couldnt look into their concerns about Es service.
Mr and Mrs G disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say that an insurer has 
a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a 
claim.
This decision is about whether AIG, the insurer, reasonably declined the claim and whether it 
mis-sold the policy through is representative for the sale, E.
Mr and Mrs G have concerns about not being able to contact E by phone or through to its 
website. E was AIGs representative for the policy sale only and AIG isnt responsible for any 
service issues Mr and Mrs G have with E. Our investigator correctly explained we cant 
consider the service issues as E isnt a regulated business according to the rules we operate 
under.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but I dont uphold their complaint about AIG. Ill explain 
why.
The policy says:
A.3 We will provide this cover if the cancellation or postponement of Your Trip is 
necessary and unavoidable as a result of the following:
1 b. epidemic or pandemic for which a declaration or other similar publication is 
issued by the government of Your Country of Residence or the World Health 
Organisation advising against travel to infected areas outside of Your Country of 
Residence.
Mr and Mrs G say they didnt cancel the trip as they couldnt contact E to do so. Ive seen   
Mr Gs text messages to the airline on 10 and 11 March 2020 trying to cancel the flight and  
by not travelling in effect the trip was cancelled. So AIG reasonably assessed the claim 
under the above policy term.
On 11 March 2020 the WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic. But the policy covers  
cancellation of a trip where the government of Mr and Mrs Gs country of residence or the 
WHO advises against travel to the intended destination due to the pandemic. Neither the 
WHO or UK government had advised against all but essential travel to the USA on 11 March 
2020.
Ive seen Mrs Gs comments about when she believes the UK government advised against 
all but essential travel and the USA government imposed border restrictions due to Covid-
19. She believes the UK governments advice to not travel abroad was already in place 
when they were due to depart on the trip. But the date of 4 February 2020 on the screenshot 
of the UK governments website shes sent us doesnt mean the advice to not travel to the 
USA or otherwise abroad was in place from 4 February 2020. Im satisfied the following are 
the correct dates:
on 11/12 March 2020 the USA government announced plans to restrict travel from 
some European countries (not the UK)
on 14 March 2020 the USA government announced plans to restrict travel from the 
UK and USA borders were closed to UK travellers on 16 March 2020 on 15 March 2020 the UK government advised against all but essential travel to the 
USA
on 17 March 2020 the UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad.
So at the time Mr and Mrs G were trying to cancel the trip (10 and 11 March) and at the time 
they would have travelled (13 March) there was no advice against all but essential travel to 
the USA by the WHO or the UK government. That advice came after Mr and Mrs G had 
been due to depart on the trip. That means the claim isnt covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. I dont think there are any fair and reasonable grounds on which to depart from 
the policy terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G have been frustrated by their situation and lost the cost of the 
flights but I think AIG fairly and reasonably declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G also complain about the sale of the policy as when Mrs G tried to access the 
policy information on-line in March 2020 the information wasnt available. AIG say Mrs Gs 
problem in accessing the policy documents then was because she was trying to retrieve 
them from the United States web address rather than using the correct link to its website 
which was sent to Mrs G when she bought the policy.
I dont think AIG mis-sold the policy. AIG needed to make the policy documentation available 
to Mrs G when she bought the policy so she could consider the terms and cancel if they 
werent suitable for her and Mr Gs needs. AIGs provided evidence that it sent Mrs G an 
email when she bought the policy on 15 January 2020 which includes the correct link to its 
website which links through to the correct policy documents. If shed used that link she would 
have been able to access the right documents. 
Mrs G says she doesnt dispute the policy was accessible in January 2020, her point is it 
wasnt available in March 2020 when she needed to look at it. But AIG provided Mrs G with 
the correct link to the correct policy which would have worked and I dont think its 
responsible for Mrs G using another link. 
Even if I thought AIG was responsible for Mrs G not being able to access the policy in 
March 2020  that wouldnt mean AIG should pay the claim. I think it probable that Mr and 
Mrs G wouldnt have taken the flight on 13 March 2020 anyway as they understood the UK 
government had already advised against travel abroad.
Ive also seen Mr and Mrs Gs comments about receiving a policy schedule with only  
contact numbers in the USA and Ive seen the document. But for the reasons Ive given that 
doesnt mean AIG should pay the claim. AIG sent Mrs G a link to the correct policy 
information when she bought the policy which does have the UK contact numbers and it 
could reasonably understand Mrs G would use that link to access the policy. AIG isnt 
responsible for the phone costs Mr and Mrs G incurred in trying to contact it in the USA.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman