DRN-2145999
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the name registered to 
her bank account without her permission and have caused her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs B holds an account with Barclays. She was unfortunately diagnosed with a health 
condition in 2017, which led to her being unable to afford her repayments. She asked 
Barclays if they would consider writing off her debt due to her illness, to which they 
requested medical evidence in order to carry out an assessment.
Mrs B disclosed her medical records, but the surname on the documentation was under her 
previous married name and did not match the name her account was registered under. As a 
result, Barclays said they were unable to accept the medical evidence. They asked if she 
could either send in medical evidence under the same name or, alternatively, they could look 
to change the name on her account to match the medical records if she sent in her marriage 
certificate. 
Mrs B sent a copy of her marriage certificate on 11 September 2019. But she was upset to 
find that they had registered her married name to her account (for which she was going 
through a divorce at the time) without any discussion or approval. Mrs B was also upset that 
this name would also be added to her credit file and that this could have an impact on her 
financially. Mrs D says that the stress of the incident caused her to have an attack of her 
medical condition, for which she is seeking compensation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Barclays could have made it clearer that 
they would be permanently changing the name on her account upon receipt of her marriage 
certificate, but he did acknowledge that they had suggested this as an option before Mrs B 
sent the documentation. The investigator recommended an award of £150 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays said they would accept this 
recommendation, but Mrs B disagreed as she said it did not recognise the fact that they had 
caused her health to decline. As a result, the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Barclays say they were unable to accept the medical records provided by Mrs B because 
they did not match her surname. I dont think this was an unreasonable stance to take, 
particularly when it was evidence the bank required in order to properly assess her situation. 
And I can see that Barclays did explain this to Mrs B in their letter of 6 September 2019.
In the same letter, Barclays also presented further options, including that of changing the 
name on her account to match that of her medical records  so long as she had 
documentation showing that this was her married name:
As Im unaware of the circumstances around your surname changing, Ive detailed 
below the documentary evidence we require in order to update this on your account 
depending on the reason its changed
Marriage or civil partnership registration document and cover letter confirming exact 
change.
Mrs B subsequently provided her marriage certificate, which led to Barclays proceeding with 
the name change. I appreciate why the bank went ahead with this without any further 
discussion with Mrs B, as they were under the impression that her sending in the marriage 
certificate was to be taken as her approval to proceed with the name change on the account. 
However, Mrs B said she was not expecting them to carry out the name change without 
further discussion or approval from her, so I can also understand why it came as a surprise 
and was upsetting to her given that she was going through a divorce. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator before me that Barclays ultimately could 
have done more to have made it clear that they would carry out the name change instantly 
upon receipt of Mrs Bs marriage certificate. The investigator recommended compensation of 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, which Barclays have accepted. However, 
Mrs B does not think this amount is fair because she says her experience with Barclays 
caused an attack of her diagnosed medical condition and a decline in her wellbeing.
Im very sorry to hear of the ill health Mrs B had been suffering, and I appreciate this must 
have been a difficult and upsetting time for her. She has sent medical evidence to show that 
she is in fact suffering from the medical conditions she has described, as well as a statement 
from her ex-husband. But I have seen no independent medical evidence to suggest that her 
decline in health was ultimately a direct result of any interaction with Barclays, so I do not 
think it would be fair and reasonable to award the significant amount of compensation sought 
by Mrs B. I do acknowledge, however, that their actions likely exacerbated her condition, and 
that this could have ben avoided if they had sought her approval to change the name on the 
account. And I consider £150 to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Mrs B says she is also unhappy because Barclays have made reports to credit referencing 
agencies with her married surname, which she says could impact her financially. But 
Barclays are under an obligation to report accurate information to the credit referencing 
agencies. So although her debt was subsequently written off, it had to be done in her 
married name to match the medical records upon which the decision was based. And in any 
event, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that such a report has had any adverse financial 
consequences on Mrs B.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay £150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman