DRN-1734942
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs J. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Canada Square sold 
Mrs J the policy when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs J and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The 
online process in use at the time presented PPI as a choice, and required customers 
to say whether or not they wanted PPI before they could carry on with the 
application. So I think Mrs J was given a choice, which shed have known she didnt 
have to take PPI. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Js 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
I dont think the online process explained the PPI as well as it should have. So Ive 
thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference to 
whether Mrs J would have taken PPI. But I dont think it would have. I say this 
because the PPI would still have paid out for longer than her employer sick pay, and 
would have been on top of that sick pay. So even with full information about the limits 
in the policy, I dont think this would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it 
doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman