DRN-1955370
The complaint
Miss R through her relative Mrs M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with her claim under a travel insurance policy. She 
wants compensation for the trouble and upset suffered as a result.
What happened
Miss R had an annual travel insurance policy with IPA. Whilst away abroad, Miss R injured 
her jaw and was admitted to hospital. Her family contacted IPAs emergency helpline and 
were told Miss R could either pay upfront all the medical bills herself and reclaim or pay the 
£100 excess and IPA would deal with the costs direct. 
Miss R paid the excess and was scheduled by the treating hospital for surgery. Her father 
spoke to IPA who said its medical advisers didnt think the surgery was necessary; he said 
that he would book a flight home for Miss R. The hospital tried to stop Miss R leaving as it 
said she wasnt fit to fly without surgery; her mother had to call IPA to get the situation 
resolved so Miss R could catch the flight. The hospital was apparently asking Miss R to pay 
$100 to be able to leave, despite having a guarantee of payment from IPA.
But Miss R wasnt permitted to fly as she didnt have a fit to fly certificate. Her family said IPA 
shouldve arranged this and it failed to contact Miss R direct. Miss Rs family said they could 
contact her direct on her phone so didnt accept that IPA couldnt do so. The family said 
matters were made worse as IPA tried to arrange for Miss R to be returned to the hospital 
that had initially tried to stop her from leaving to get a fit to fly certificate and ignored the offer 
of the airport doctor to deal with the certificate. Miss R was taken to another medical centre, 
who did issue the certificate after reviewing the scans from the treating hospital, but this took 
time.
But the family said IPA gave them incorrect information and they chose to book another flight 
to get Miss R home as they felt IPA wasnt helping. IPA forwarded the fit to fly certificate the 
day after Miss R returned home. Miss R had surgery in the UK, 4 days after her accident. 
Her family said shed suffered immense pain and distress due to IPAs mishandling of the 
situation and if theyd waited for IPA, Miss R wouldve spent another day abroad.
Mrs M complained. IPA said its team didnt delay sending the guarantee of payment to the 
treating hospital. The treating hospital wanted to carry out the surgery, and refused to issue 
a fit to fly certificate and in IPAs view caused the difficulties Miss R faced in leaving. But it 
said it couldnt make arrangements to return someone home until a fit to fly certificate was 
issued. IPA pointed out that Miss Rs father agreed that it was best for the surgery to be 
done in the UK, and its medical advisers said Miss R was fit to fly. IPA blamed the treating 
hospital for the delays Miss R suffered and added that the speed of repatriation depends on 
the availability of transport, the health of the patient and any clearance needed.
Mrs M complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should upheld. She 
said that it was reasonable for IPA to want to repatriate Miss R to the UK for her surgery, 
given the medical advice it received and the views of Miss R and her father in support of this 
plan. The investigator also didnt think IPA had caused unreasonable delay  it had 
responded promptly to the notification the treating hospital was trying to stop Miss R from 
leaving, and wasnt responsible for its refusal to provide a fit to fly certificate. The 
investigator noted that IPA then tried to arrange a house call or the airport doctor to issue the 
certificate, but this wasnt possible; its agent arranged to take Miss R to the preferred 
hospital but upon being told it was the treating hospital, IPA promptly arranged for her to go 
elsewhere  the investigator thought this was reasonable.
The investigator noted that the medical centre that issued the fit to fly certificate very late at 
night and the family arranged a flight home. But the investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable for IPA to update the family the next morning as it wasnt a 24 hour service 
and it was clear it was then arranging the repatriation (as IPA didnt know Miss R had left). 
She also didnt think the delay between Miss R seeing the doctor and getting the fit to fly 
certificate was unreasonable  the doctor needed to see the scans, sent Miss R back to the 
hotel while she waited, and IPA contacted Miss R about the outcome once it was a 
reasonable hour in the day (allowing for the time difference).
But the investigator thought IPA shouldve updated Miss R more frequently. She accepted 
the number IPA originally had wasnt correct and it spoke to her family frequently, but Miss R 
wasnt always updated directly (and was on her own). The investigator said the family did 
arrange a hotel, but only because they felt it would be quicker  IPA was also finding 
accommodation. The same happened regarding the second flight  the investigator said IPA 
wasnt able to book until the fit to fly certificate was obtained, but it started to arrange this as 
soon as it was received, but the family chose to deal with it themselves.
The investigator said that the fair and reasonable outcome was that IPA paid Miss R £75 for 
the trouble and upset caused by its failure to communicate with her, especially in the 
beginning, or contact her with updates sufficiently, though it did update her family.
Mrs M disagreed. She said that IPA shouldve told them Miss R would need a fit to fly 
certificate for the first flight home she was booked on, and it shouldve realised earlier the 
agent was going to send Miss R back to the treating hospital when IPA was arranging the 
certificate for the second flight. Mrs M commented on the behaviour of the treating hospital 
and IPA should be available 24 hours a day to forward the certificate earlier as it said 
emergency medical assistance was available 24 hours a day. She felt that £75 was far too 
little compensation and said Miss R was still suffering from the injury to her jaw.
IPA also disagreed. It said that the family were the people who kept calling so they were 
updated, and it wasnt practical to call multiple people with updates. IPA said doing so would 
cause confusion and it was reasonable to expect the family to update Miss R, especially as 
they made the claim in the first place on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to IPA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Physical injuryIm sorry to hear that Miss R is suffering from her jaw injury. But theres no medical evidence 
(or even evidence from Miss R herself) to show that the pain and discomfort she still suffers 
is the fault of IPA or any delay on its part, as opposed to the accident itself. The policy only 
covers emergency medical treatment that cant be delayed until a return home. I cant award 
any compensation to Miss R in respect of this issue.
Miss Rs departure from the treating hospital
I appreciate that Miss R was injured, abroad and alone. I have no doubt that it was an 
unpleasant and, at times, a frightening experience for her. But I have to look at IPAs actions, 
and not those of the treating hospital or medical professionals  IPA is an insurer and isnt 
responsible for the actions of third parties. 
From the evidence Ive seen, its clear (for example, from the messages passing between 
the treating hospital and IPA) that the actions of the treating hospital didnt have anything to 
do with any delays or actions by IPA. The hospital appears to have wanted to make Miss R 
have the surgery within its hospital, despite the advice of the UK medical team and the views 
of Miss R and her family. It refused to issue a fit to fly certificate. But theres no independent 
evidence that the hospital tried to keep Miss R due to lack of payment  it had promptly 
received a guarantee of payment from IPA and its messages shows its focus was on the 
surgery. IPA isnt responsible for the difficulties Miss R faced in leaving.
Arrangements for a Fit to fly certificate
Mrs M says IPA shouldve arranged a fit to fly certificate before letting Miss R try to catch the 
first flight. But first, IPA isnt a doctor and it cant make doctors issue a certificate. Second, 
such a certificate isnt always required; its the decision of the airline whether to allow a 
passenger to travel. The treating hospital had refused to issue a certificate and IPAs 
attempts to persuade it otherwise failed when Miss R was at the airport. Miss Rs family had 
booked the flight, not IPA. The medical advice IPA received from its UK team (and confirmed 
later by the medical centre Miss R to get the certificate) was that Miss R was fit. It was 
because of her presentation at the airport that the airline refused to carry her without the 
certificate. I dont think IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in not requiring Miss R to get a 
certificate for a flight her family booked.
But once it was obvious Miss R would need the certificate, IPA arranged for its agents to 
take her to another medical centre. Its worth bearing in mind that IPA itself wasnt on site  
as is common within the travel insurance business, it used local agents who had the 
expertise to advise on facilities available locally. IPA asked for a house visit or to use the 
airport doctor and was advised this wasnt possible. IPA asked the agent to take Miss R to 
the local preferred hospital and as soon as it discovered this was the treating hospital, it 
asked the agent to go elsewhere. I dont think IPAs actions here were unfair or 
unreasonable.
Again, IPA isnt responsible for the actions of the medical centre, but I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the centre to ask to see the scans from the treating hospital and send 
Miss R back to the hotel to rest while it considered whether she was fit to fly. 
And while Mrs M is very critical about IPAs actions on receipt of the certificate, I dont think 
the criticism is justified. The 24 hour service is for emergency medical assistance  that 
wasnt what Miss R needed. And given the hour at which the certificate was received, it 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable for IPA to wait until Miss R was likely to be awake to forward 
it. I note that it had started to organise preliminary plans to get her home, and took more 
steps once it had the certificate. Its fair and reasonable (and standard industry practice) to 
wait until the fit to fly certificate is received to organise repatriation. From the evidence Ive seen, IPA wasnt told the family was going to organise a second flight or that Miss R had left 
the country.
Hotels and flights
The family accepts that they knew IPA was trying to organise hotels and flights for Miss R 
but chose to do it themselves. Mrs M says IPA shouldve been quicker, but this overlooks the 
situation  it takes time for a third party to put plans in place. I can see IPA was doing so and 
I dont think its actions here were unfair or unreasonable.
Communication
Communication was undoubtedly an issue in Miss Rs case. IPA didnt seem to have the 
right number and struggled to connect to her phone line. It did at times speak to Miss R 
directly but in its response to the investigators view, it accepts that it felt updating her family 
was enough. 
I understand that talking to several people at once can cause confusion and normally family 
members do update the patient (who often is too unwell to speak to the insurer). But in the 
circumstances of this case, Miss R wasnt in the same physical location as her family, and 
its evident from the contact notes that the family at the time felt communication wasnt good 
enough and told IPA to call Miss R as she was frightened. 
I also note that IPA assumed that updating the family was enough, but it didnt agree a 
communication protocol  in other words, IPA didnt ask whether it should primarily update 
Miss R or a member of family and that individual would be the designated point of contact, 
despite having to talk to at least three individuals. It was told Miss R was distressed and 
wanted more contact from IPA, but this didnt happen. I dont think IPAs communication with 
Miss R in the circumstances was fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset. I can only award compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by IPA, rather than the situation itself, and Ive only found one 
point at which IPA was at fault  communication. Such compensation is based on the trouble 
and upset suffered by Miss R, rather than her wider family. Theres limited evidence about 
the distress she suffered due to the communication issue alone, and we dont award 
compensation for what mightve happened. I think £75 compensation is fair, reasonable, and 
in line with this services approach.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay 
Miss R £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my 
decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman