DRN-3953972
The complaint
Ms M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £148,000 she lost to an 
investment scam in February 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms M authorised the disputed payments she made to her 
cryptocurrency wallet using her Revolut debit card (where her funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers). The payments were requested using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Ms M from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular payment. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character.
Im satisfied there was enough unusual activity here to have given Revolut cause for 
concern that Ms M was potentially at risk of financial harm. The £6,095.78 payment she 
made on 13 February 2022 marked a significant increase in spending for her account. 
But even if this wasnt unusual, I think at the very least Revolut should have intervened 
by the time Ms M attempted a third payment to the crypto platform on 13 February 2022. 
This took her daily spend to over £10,000 and Revolut will be aware that multiple 
payments made in quick succession can often be indicative of fraud. 
However, even if Revolut had intervened at this point and asked further questions 
through its in-app chat about the nature of the payments Ms M was making, Im not 
persuaded it would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented 
her loss. I say this because Ms M had been coached to by the scammer to lie about the 
purpose of the payment if she was questioned about it. Indeed, I can see that she did in 
fact give false information to another of her banks in relation to the same scam, when 
she was questioned by it on 1 March 2022, as she said she hadnt been contacted by 
anyone with regards to an investment. Ms M had also given false reasons to two 
different lenders to obtain loans in order to fund the investment.  
So, overall, even if Revolut did intervene and carry out further enquiries before allowing 
any more payments to be made, Im not persuaded this would have likely revealed that 
Ms M was falling for a scam or ultimately prevented her loss. Therefore, I dont think its 
failure to intervene can be considered the proximate cause of Ms Ms loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely she would have provided false information in order to 
make the payments, as she did when questioned by her other bank. As such, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for failing to prevent the 
scam.
I note that Ms Ms representatives have said she was vulnerable at the time of the scam. 
But while I appreciate she may have been going through a difficult time, I dont consider 
her circumstances amount to her being vulnerable, or that Revolut would have been 
aware of her circumstances either. Revoluts duty first and foremost is to execute 
transactions at the request of its customers. And given there was nothing to put it on 
notice that Ms M was vulnerable or lacked capacity to make her own financial decisions, 
I dont think it was under any obligation to put extra measures in place as a result.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms M, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman