DRN-1189887
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim under her 
buildings insurance policy. 
For the avoidance of doubt all references to Great Lakes include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs S purchased her insurance policy through a broker. At the same time as taking out a 
building insurance policy with Great Lakes, Ms S took out a separate home assistance policy 
with a different insurer. The home assistance policy provides cover for domestic 
emergencies. 
Ms S contacted the broker to make a claim for a leaking sink and a rat infestation. The 
broker let the home assistance insurer know about Ms S's claim. An emergency plumber 
and a pest controller were sent to Ms S's home to inspect the sink and deal with the 
infestation. The plumber sent to the property said that the sink had leaked due to the poor 
condition of the pipework and that the pipework needed replacing. It was also mentioned that 
the stop tap on the mains water supply in the home was also leaking slightly. Neither of 
those issues could be repaired under the home assistance policy.
The pest controller advised that rats were getting into Ms S's home through the sewage 
pipes and that there was an issue with sewage backing up on to Ms S's property. Ms S said 
this likely caused her dishwasher and washing machine not to work correctly as they couldn't 
discharge the waste water properly. Due to the infestation needing to be treated and the 
potential damage the rats had caused to Ms S's home she was placed in alternative 
accommodation for the maximum time allowed under the policy, seven days. Ms S was 
advised to speak to her buildings insurer to see if any further alternative 
accommodation could be provided under that policy.
Ms S phoned Great Lakes and explained the situation - that there had been a leak in the 
kitchen and a rat infestation. She also explained there was an issue with sewage, 
the problem was being investigated on a neighbouring property but it meant she couldn't use 
her dishwasher and washing machine. Ms S also explained she'd noticed her kitchen and 
conservatory floor were wet. Ms S asked if, because of these issues she could be provided 
with alternative accommodation under her buildings insurance policy as she had been under 
her emergency assistance policy. Great Lakes told Ms S it wouldn't provide her with 
alternative accommodation, it said her buildings policy didn't provide any cover for damage 
caused by vermin (rats). 
Ms S was very distressed by this conversation, she didn't feel able to return to her property 
and says she was forced to sleep in her car overnight. She said she was able to stay in a 
caravan but this was quite some distance from her home. Great Lakes sent an assessor to 
her home to review the water damage and said that this damage alone didn't make the 
property uninhabitable. Ms S complained about how the claim was being handled and 
wanted to be put in alternative accommodation. She said the flood in the kitchen had left her 
without the use of kitchen facilities and running hot and cold water.During the time Great Lakes were considering her complaint, local authority agencies 
undertook investigations into the sewage leak and were able to resolve this. So the issues 
Ms S was left with was the damage caused by the rats and the effects of the water damage 
to her kitchen and conservatory.
Great Lakes looked at the complaint but didn't think it had done anything wrong. It confirmed 
the damage caused by the rats wasn't covered under the policy as there was an exclusion 
for damage caused by vermin. It also confirmed Ms S didn't have cover for alternative 
accommodation under her policy. It did however offer her £100 for the distress caused in the 
phone call they had. It said they were waiting for a report from the assessor and would let 
her know about her claim for water damage later. 
Our investigator looked at the case and let Ms S know that he didn't think Great Lakes had 
acted incorrectly. He confirmed that the policy didn't provide cover for any damage caused 
by vermin, so Great Lakes was correct to tell her she wouldn't be placed in alternative 
accommodation because of this. 
He also said the policy wouldn't provide cover to replace the hot and cold water supply pipes 
as these had failed over time. And, this also meant the water damage caused to the 
kitchen cupboard wouldn't be covered. So, although Ms S didn't have running water, this 
wasn't something the policy would fix for her or that it would mean that Great Lakes needed 
to provide alternative accommodation for her.
The investigator also explained he didn't think the water damage to the kitchen and 
conservatory flooring alone meant the property was uninhabitable. So he agreed Great 
Lakes didn't need to provide this. 
Ms S disagreed she reiterated that she'd been told her home was unhabitable so thought 
that Great Lakes should be providing her with alternative accommodation. She explained in 
detail the distress these matters had caused her and the upheaval that had been caused to 
her family. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
While the case has been with us, Ms S has explained she was told the water damage to the 
property also wouldn't be covered under the policy. She has also told us that she no longer 
lives at the property. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've only considered events that happened up to the date Great Lakes issued their final 
response to Ms S's complaint. If Ms S is unhappy about the decision Great Lakes reached 
on her claim or the time it took to give this answer then she will need to make a separate 
complaint about this. 
Ms S has outlined the impact this whole situation had on her and the chain of events that 
ultimately led to her leaving the property. I'm sorry to hear of this and she has my 
sympathies for what must have been a very distressing time. I'll be focussing my decision on 
what I see the main issues to be in this complaint and I'll set out my findings under 
subheadings below.
Damage caused by RatsI've looked at Ms S's policy and I'm persuaded that it doesn't cover damage caused by 
vermin. So in this instance, while I understand Ms S's feelings about the fact rats were in her 
property and the amount of damage they caused both inside and to the drains. I can't say 
Great Lakes acted incorrectly here. Because there was no cover under the policy, 
Great Lakes was correct to tell Ms S it couldn't provide her with alternative accommodation 
for this reason. 
No hot or cold running water and, water damage to kitchen cupboard. 
I've looked at the information provided by the plumber that attended Ms S's property. He 
concluded the hot and cold pipework needed to be replaced as it was in poor condition and 
there was a leak on the stopcock. Ms S's policy excludes damage where it happens 
gradually. I think it's more likely than not the pipework deteriorated over time and the 
stopcock had also been leaking for sometime. Because of this, i think Great Lakes were 
correct in telling Ms S it wouldn't be covering the replacement of the pipework or the damage 
caused to the cupboard. 
I appreciate why Ms S would say that having no hot and cold running water would make her 
property uninhabitable. But the issue here is whether the damage was covered by the policy 
and as such, whether Great Lakes was then required to consider placing Ms S in alternative 
accommodation. As I've concluded the damage wasn't covered by the policy, it follows that i 
don't think Great Lakes did anything wrong by refusing Ms S's request to be placed in 
alternative accommodation for this reason. 
Water damage to the floors
At the time Great Lakes responded to Ms S's complaint, it hadn't made a decision on 
whether the water damage to the floors would be covered under the policy. It had however 
told Ms S that it didn't think the damage itself was bad enough to make the property 
uninhabitable. So what I'm considering here is only Great Lakes decision to refuse Ms S's 
request for alternative accommodation. 
As I understand it, when Great Lakes sent an inspector to visit the property in May 2019 they 
noted that the floors were wet. There wasn't any mention of standing water. They also note 
they were told by Ms S that the floors were crumbling. 
Having reviewed all of the information available, I'm not persuaded Great Lakes were 
required to offer Ms S alternative accommodation at that point, as the reported damage 
alone, more likely than not, wasn't sufficient to make the property uninhabitable. 
I realise that with all the issues combined Ms S may well have felt unable to live in the 
property and together, they meant it was uninhabitable. However, I can only consider 
whether, if the damage covered by the policy alone made it uninhabitable. I haven't been 
able to conclude it did.
Service received and compensation
Great Lakes offered Ms S £100 compensation for the fact she was left in tears after the call 
she had with its claims handler. It says it provided feedback to the team. 
I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It's clear the situation as a 
whole was very distressing for Ms S and this payment acknowledges that the call could have 
been handled better. I won't therefore be asking Great Lakes to make any further payment.My final decision
My final decision is I reject Ms S's complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman