DRN-4274468
The complaint
Mr T complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) treated him unfairly in denying 
him access to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr T has a pension with SL. He messaged SL in 2020 requesting a withdrawal from his 
pension. SL declined to process his withdrawal request. 
SL explains that it was concerned that Mr T didnt have the mental capacity to make 
decisions regarding his finances. It explained the reasons for its concern and what it asked 
of Mr T in order for him to satisfy it that he had mental capacity.
Mr T brought his complaint to our service in April 2022 as he was unhappy with SLs ongoing 
failure to accept that he had mental capacity. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She 
understood his concerns but explained why she didnt think that what SL had done had been 
unfair or unreasonable. So this complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my decision is to reject Mr Ts complaint for the same reasons that our 
investigator explained. Having read all of the evidence and correspondence Im aware of the 
difficulties Mr T has experienced and am sorry for that. But I have had to weigh up the 
actions of SL in the context of its regulatory responsibilities and whether what it did was fair. 
And make that decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) publish rules in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). It includes COBS 2.1.1R, which is the clients best interest rule. This meant that 
SL had to act honestly, fairly and in accordance with Mr Ts best interests. The FCA also 
publish high level principles that govern businesses. These are set out in the handbook 
under PRIN. Within PRIN 2.1 are those principles. Principle 6 says that a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I recognise that SL werent able to obtain a full picture of Mr Ts circumstances and neither 
am I. So SL couldnt say with certainty whether Mr T had mental capacity to make financial 
decisions or not. And it isnt my role to determine whether he had mental capacity at any 
specific point in time in this decision. What I need to determine is whether the course of 
action that SL took was fair and reasonable, given its obligation to act in Mr Ts best 
interests. 
I have seen that SL was first made aware that Mr T may lack mental capacity in 2020 
following contact from a family member who had a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) for Mr T. 
It highlighted concerns that I think it was only reasonable for SL to consider in the way that it 
handled future requests from Mr T. It caused SL to have concerns about Mr Ts mental 
wellbeing and risk of being exposed to financial abuse.
I understand that Mr T successfully challenged the LPA and it was revoked by court. So at 
that stage it was likely he had mental capacity. But I think it was fair for SL to seek 
clarification of that, which it did in late 2020. I have seen the enquiries that SL were making 
in order to better understand Mr Ts circumstances. SL explain that the things it found out led 
it to have increased concerns about Mr Ts mental wellbeing. And having seen that 
evidence, Im satisfied that the conclusion SL reached wasnt unreasonable. 
The type or correspondence SL was receiving from Mr T along with the information it had 
found out about Mr T was enough for SL to reasonably conclude that Mr T may not have 
mental capacity. So, to fulfil its responsibilities, it wasnt unreasonable for it to ask for 
clarification or evidence of his ability to make the request that he suggested that he wanted.
I should also point out that I dont think it was particularly clear at any stage what Mr T 
wanted from this pension. At an early stage he asked for a single withdrawal in an email, 
although didnt complete any application to take that income. And in April 2021 it appears he 
was asking to encash the whole of his pension fund in an email. But again, no application 
was processed. And more latterly Ive seen Mr T indicate that he has no specific plans for his 
pension but just wants SL to agree that he has mental capacity and that he can make his 
own decisions about his pension.
There have been periods where the evidence that SL had caused it to have ongoing 
concerns that Mr T may be vulnerable and may not have mental capacity. Again, Ive seen 
that evidence and Mr Ts correspondence and I think that the conclusion SL came to was 
fair. And was reached out of concern for Mr Ts best interests.
SL explain that they have asked for evidence from Mr T that he has mental capacity so that it 
could process any request he makes to access his pension benefits. Ive seen the 
correspondence and think that it was clear and reasonable. It ought to have been achievable 
for Mr T with minimum inconvenience and no additional cost. I think that Mr T likely 
understood, as he responded with his opinions on SLs request. He has refused to do this 
which has caused this impasse.
I wouldnt expect SL to put hurdles in Mr Ts way unnecessarily. But I think that the specific 
circumstances here will have given SL reasonable grounds to be concerned about Mr Ts 
vulnerability. And the request it has made, which wouldnt be made in all cases, doesnt, on 
balance, seem unreasonable. 
I can see that SL have made attempts to engage with other agencies in an attempt to better 
understand Mr Ts circumstances. Which I think was fair. And it has highlighted to Mr T 
avenues of potential support available to him. Taking everything into consideration I think 
that SL have done what I would expect to try to help move this forward for Mr T. Accepting 
that it didnt think it was able to process an application for Mr T whilst it had reasonably held 
concerns about Mr Ts ability to make that application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman