DRN-4003089
The complaint
Mr P complains Inclusive Finance Limited, trading as Creditspring, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr P entered into a credit agreement with Creditspring. He agreed to pay a
fee of £6 a month for 12 months, which entitled him to draw down two advances of £250
each during a 12-month minimum term. These advances would be repayable over four
monthly instalments of around £63 (excluding the fee). Mr P drew down the first advance in
January 2021 and the second in May 2021.
In December 2021 Mr P entered into a new credit agreement with Creditspring. This time he
agreed to pay £10 a month for 12 months, which entitled him to draw down two advances of
£500 each during a 12-month minimum term. These advances would be repayable over six
monthly instalments of around £83 (excluding the fee). Mr P drew down the first advance in
December 2021. Creditspring ended his account in August 2022, so he was unable to draw
down the second advance.
Mr P says Creditspring shouldnt have agreed to lend him any money. He says he was
constantly needing to borrow to pay other loans off and was trapped in a cycle of debt. He
thinks Creditspring should have done further checks with the alarm bells that were shown in
his credit file and if it had done this, it would have seen he has a gambling addiction and was
spending all his money and more to fund this addiction.
Creditspring says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mr P and
these showed the borrowing was affordable.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I thought the 
complaint about the first agreement shouldnt be upheld but the complaint about the second 
agreement should be upheld. I said:
Creditspring needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr P
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr P would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. Generally, we think its
reasonable for checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information is gathered
and what is done to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Agreement 1 (January 2021)
This was Mr Ps first credit agreement with Creditspring. The amount he would be borrowing
at any time was relatively low (£250) and it was repayable over a relatively short period of
time. So a less detailed affordability assessment, with less verification might be reasonable
and proportionate.
Creditspring says it evaluated the affordability of the borrowing against both self-reported
information and cross-checked details for both income and indebtedness against information
from Mr Ps credit file. It says Mr P reported his income as £2,350 a month and using open
banking, his predicted monthly income was £2,316. Mr P told it his monthly expenses
totalled £723. This included £49.50 a month towards existing debt repayments. Based on
this, Creditspring concluded Mr P could afford the monthly instalments of around £69 to
repay the advances and fee.
Creditspring also did a credit check, and it says it evaluated Mr Ps credit report against
various flags such as late loan repayments, CCJs and other major events. Ive looked at the
results of this check and there arent any significant signs that Mr P was in financial
difficulties at the time, or that he wasnt able to manage his existing debts.
The credit report does suggest Mr Ps monthly payments towards existing debts are
significantly higher than the £49.50 he apparently told Creditspring about  around £240. I
would have expected Creditspring to spot that. But even factoring in this higher amount,
based on the information available, it would still seem Mr P could afford to sustainably repay
the amount he was borrowing from Creditspring.
Overall, there wasnt anything in the checks Creditspring did to suggest Mr P might have
difficulties sustainably repaying the advances he was given under the first credit agreement.
So I wouldnt have expected it to do any further checks or verification  particularly given the
level of borrowing, term of repayment and lack of any previous lending relationship with
Mr P.
Im currently satisfied that Creditsprings checks before agreeing to lend Mr P money under
the first agreement were proportionate. And the information it gathered suggested Mr P
could afford the month instalments.
Agreement 2 (December 2021)
The checks Creditspring did when Mr P approached it again for further borrowing were
similar to the first agreement. It says Mr P told it his income and expenditure information was
the same, so his disposable income was the same. It says this meant he could comfortably
afford the monthly repayments of around £93 a month (including the fee). Creditspring also
did another credit check.
On the face of it, given how much Mr P was borrowing, the term of repayment and his
income, these checks might be proportionate. But I dont think Creditspring reacted
appropriately to the data available on the credit report when it made its lending decision.
As Ive said, Creditspring needed to check Mr P would be able to pay the loan sustainably.
Being able to sustainably repay credit is doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to
meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. While Mr P had made the
repayments towards the first agreement on time and, according to Creditspring had showed
no signs of financial hardship, there are signs from his credit report that he hadnt been able
to do this sustainably. And, like he says, that he was in a cycle of debt.
In the 11 months since Mr P had entered into the first agreement, his total level of
indebtedness had more than doubled. And while some other indicators on his credit report
might show he was generally keeping up with his payments towards his debts, this suggests
he had needed to keep borrowing more to be able to do this  it wasnt sustainable. There
are other signs on the report that also might suggest Mr P was in financial difficulties. Forexample, he had used his credit card for cash advances in the last three months.
At the very least, I think the information on the credit report should have triggered further
checks, which are likely to have made Creditspring aware of Mr Ps problem gambling. But I
think the information Creditspring already had should have been enough for it to realise that
Mr P wasnt in a stable financial situation and further credit probably wasnt affordable. This
is supported by the fact that very quickly, Mr P struggled to make payments towards the
loan. So I currently think it was wrong of Creditspring to agree to advance Mr P any further
money in December 2021.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision, but Creditspring didnt. In summary it said:
Its policies and score cards are automated and it doesnt undertake manual reviews 
of applications. If a customer fails, the policy or score card they are automatically 
rejected for a product. Given the term and size of the loan its lending criteria is in line 
with regulatory requirements and is reasonable and proportionate. As such it would 
not undertake additional checks or request supporting documents from our 
customers.
When it reviews its scorecard it undertakes testing of multiple variables to determine 
predictive variables/characteristics for credit risk and affordability. It doesnt include 
cash withdrawals as a predictive variable as it doesnt think it would identify 
customers more likely to experience affordability issues in the future. And in Mr Ps 
case, he cleared the balance of his credit card once hed made the cash withdrawals, 
demonstrating he was managing his finances.
It cant assume why a customer has had an increase in indebtedness as this could 
be anything from purchasing a new car to home improvements. And his credit 
utilisation had reduced between the decision to give him agreement 1 and agreement 
2. It can only make a decision on how the customer is managing their commitments 
and in Mr Ps case he was making his repayments to his creditors, he had previously 
paid on time with Creditspring and he had no arrangements to pay or other signs of 
insolvency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any new evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision about agreement 1, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. So I still dont think the complaint about this agreement should be upheld. 
I will focus here on addressing why, despite Creditsprings further comments, I still think the 
complaint about agreement 2 should be upheld.
Its for Creditspring to decide what checks it does and how it does those checks before 
agreeing to lend to someone. It has chosen to do automated checks and no additional, more 
manual checks, which its entitled to do. But it does need to make sure the checks it does 
are reasonable and proportionate and that those checks are borrower focused. By 
borrower focused I mean that Creditspring had to think about whether repaying the credit 
would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Creditspring to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.As I said in my provisional decision, on the face of it, the checks Creditspring did might be 
proportionate. But there was information it had as a result of the checks, that it has chosen 
not to include as a predictive variable/characteristic in its scorecard. I still think this 
information was enough for to show that Mr P wasnt in a stable financial situation and 
further credit probably wasnt affordable. 
One of the variables I pointed to in my provisional decision that I thought could suggest Mr P 
might not be in a stable financial situation was the fact hed used his credit card for cash 
advances in the three months before applying for the second agreement. To be clear, Im not 
saying these ought to have alerted Creditspring to the fact Mr P was gambling. But cash 
withdrawals on a credit card are generally accepted to be a sign that someone might be in 
financial difficulties. If Mr P had the level of disposable income Creditspring calculated him to 
have, its unlikely he would have needed to advance cash on his credit card and pay the 
extra interest for this.
Creditspring has made the point that Mr P cleared his credit card balance once hed made 
the cash withdrawals. But Mr P couldnt do that without borrowing more money  so he 
hadnt repaid it in a sustainable way. 
That brings me on to the other variable I pointed to in my provisional decision  Mr Ps level 
of indebtedness. I accept Mr P might have borrowed money to buy a car or do home 
improvements. But he hadnt. His increased indebtedness between agreements 1 and 2 had 
come about because hed needed to borrow more, to meet his other commitments  such as 
his credit cards. And while his credit utilisation had reduced, this is because hed replaced 
some of his revolving credit with loans. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, generally, we think its reasonable for checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify it  
in the early stages of a lending relationship. And if Mr P hadnt the earlier agreement with 
Creditspring, my conclusions might be different. But Creditspring had information about how 
Mr Ps financial position had changed between the two agreements, and this paints a 
different picture than the one credit check in isolation.  
I accept, there could be innocuous reasons why someone might use their credit card for 
cash advances, or increase their overall indebtedness over a period of 11 months. But 
without doing further checks to make sure this is whats happened, I dont think its 
reasonable to assume this to be the case.
I think Creditspring had information that showed Mr P would likely have difficulties repaying 
any further credit. While it chose not to look at that information, include it as part of its 
scorecard, or ask further questions about it, that doesnt mean it made a fair decision to lend 
to him. 
I still dont think Creditspring should have agreed to advance Mr P any further money in 
December 2021.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr P in
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given a new agreement in December 2021.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending.
Mr P was given the advance and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undowhats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr P back in the position he would be in
if he hadnt been given the advance in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way
of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Creditspring should:
a) Refund the monthly £10 charges Mr P paid for the December 2021 credit agreement.
b) Add 8% simple interest* from the date the charges were paid by Mr P to the date the 
complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creditspring to deduct tax from this interest. Creditspring
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint about the agreement from January 2021. But I do uphold his complaint about the 
agreement from December 2021. Inclusive Finance Limited, trading as Creditspring must put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman