DRN-2522644
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFCL) didnt treat him fairly 
when he was in financial difficulties. And kept adding charges and interest to his account. He 
wants a refund of the charges and interest.
What happened
Mr T is represented in this complaint by a family member but for ease of reading Ill just refer 
to him.
Mr T tells us that he informed SDFCL he was experiencing financial hardship. But instead of 
helping him he alleges it ignored his requests for help. He states that interest was unfairly 
added to his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) accounts. And he says that he was pressured into 
taking a further loan to repay his debt.
SDFCL told us that upon learning of Mr Ts financial difficulties, it had advised him to seek 
advice from a free debt advisory service. And after hed said hed done so, SDFCL said it 
requested further information which Mr T didnt provide. It said it hadnt charged interest 
(£640.06) on the BNPL account due in December 2019. But that a BNPL payment which had 
been due in January 2020 (£34.68) had been charged. It said that charges had been applied 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that SDFCL had 
referred Mr T to a free debt advice service. And sought to engage with him. But he couldnt 
see that Mr T had provided the requested information about his financial circumstances. And 
he felt charges and interest had been fairly applied.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn that Mr T is experiencing financial difficulties. And I understand that this 
can be the source of stress.
Mr Ts complaint amounts to alleging that SDFCL didnt offer him sufficient assistance after 
hed told it about his financial difficulties. And that instead of freezing interest payments it 
had continued to apply these along with other charges.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator has set out a comprehensive timeline in his views. So I shant repeat that in 
detail as the parties have seen it.
Case notes indicate that Mr T advised SDFCL of his financial difficulties on 31 October 2019. 
The business responded on 4 November suggesting that Mr T contact a free debt advice 
service Ill refer to as S. Subsequently when Mr T got back to SDFCL  having obtained 
advice from S  SDFCL asked Mr T to provide it with further information including an income 
and expenditure form and an offer of payment. I cant see that this information was provided 
and the next direct contact from Mr T is recorded as being 20 March 2020.
Im aware that Mr T states that SDFCL was provided with the income and expenditure form  
but Ive seen no information as to how this information was sent or that it was received by 
SDFCL.
Having advised SDFCL of his difficulties Mr T then made substantial payments on 23 
November 2019. There is no note in the account records of any contact after 9 November 
(when SDFCL sought the additional information) and these payments. So Im unable to see 
that SDFCL had any cause to think it need do anything else. Mr T had significantly reduced 
the overall debt on his account and avoided a £600 interest charge that was due on his 
BNPL account in December. And hed made the minimum payments required on his non- 
BNPL account and brought that up to date.
Mr T says he took out additional credit to repay SDFCL. Whilst Ive not seen details of this, if 
its being suggested that this additional loan wasnt affordable that would be a matter for Mr 
T to take up with the provider of that finance. If its not the lender, then SDFCL would not be 
involved in that loan.
Im aware that Mr T feels that SDFCL hasnt followed all the rules and regulations that 
govern what a business should do when a customer is facing financial problems.
FCA guidance states that where a business learns that a customer is in financial difficulty it 
should show forbearance and due consideration (CONC 7.3.4). And it goes on to give 
examples of what steps a business should consider. This includes making the customer 
aware of free debt advice services. It also might include deferring, reducing or waiving 
interest. The important point to note being that these are only examples of what steps a 
business should consider. They are not mandatory requirements. And as every individuals 
circumstances will differ, a business is able to adopt a variety measures and offer what it 
feels is the most appropriate.
Here SDFCL advised Mr T of the free debt advice service S. And it appears that Mr T 
contacted S. Unfortunately, theres no documentation to show that the information  
including an income and expenditure form  which SDFCL later requested from Mr T was 
ever provided. And as Mr T then made substantial payments soon after Im not able to say 
that SDFCL needed to do anything else at that time.
Dealing with specific issues about the additional interest which Mr T believes has been 
applied.Statement 52 dated 23 November 2019 sets out that Mr T had a BNPL balance of £1302.25 
which if paid by 13 December 2019 would avoid approximately £640.06 interest being 
added. It also shows the minimum payment required on non-BNPL items was £168.30.
Statement 53 dated 21 December 2019 details that payments of £1302.25 and £200 were 
received on 23 November. The £1302.25 cleared the December BNPL and so avoided 
interest of £640.06. The £200 was allocated to the non-BNPL balance which was showing as 
requiring a minimum payment of £168.30. So that account was also now up to date.
Both statements 52 and 53 also showed there was a further BNPL item due to paid in 
January of £153 (interest of £34.68 to be added if not paid by 10 January 2020). When that 
amount wasnt paid the interest was applied.
Given the statements were clear as to what was required of Mr T to avoid the January BNPL 
interest charge, I cant say that SDFCL did anything wrong.
Its been suggested that SDFCL shouldve applied part of the £200 payment to the January 
BNPL item. I cant see any specific request for this to be done. And even if it had been, it 
would then have left the standard non-BNPL account in arrears. Statement 52 showed the 
minimum payment required was £168.30 (part of which was already overdue). So if the £200 
had been used on the January BNPL, the standard account wouldve remained in arrears 
with additional interest payable. 
In all the circumstances, I find that SDFCL responded appropriately to Mr Ts initial reporting 
of financial difficulties. And it gave correct information in terms of informing him of a free debt 
advisory service. Subsequently, after Mr T had made substantial repayments it applied 
interest and charges in accordance with the terms and conditions of the financial agreement.
Going forward, if Mr T remains in financial difficulty, Id suggest that he contact SDFCL and 
supply the required information. SDFCL will then be in a position to reassess its obligations.
Whilst I empathise with Mr T and the difficulties hes experienced, Im unable to say that 
SDFCL has done anything wrong here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman