DRN-2718712
The complaint
Mrs E complains that she was mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in August 2005 
by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has clarified her complaint to say that NatWest persuaded her take the AGA to 
increase her overdraft and to get better rates on lending.
Nat West says it gave Mrs E all the information about the AGA and she chose to buy it.
The AGA benefits included travel insurance; £10,000 accidental death benefit; extended 
warranty cover on appliances; purchase protection when using the NatWest card; 
preferential rates on mortgages, loans and overdrafts; and discounts on home and car 
insurance, electrical goods, leisure attractions and days out. It cost £10 a month.
Both parties accept there was a conversation as part of the sale. I wasnt present in that 
discussion, so I can only consider the evidence available to me today.
Both parties agree that Mrs E had held a fee free account with an overdraft for many years 
and had increased the overdraft several times before the AGA sale. 
So, I think its more likely than not that she was aware that she had a choice whether to buy 
an AGA and she chose to do so.
NatWest has provided Mrs Es account statements from before and after the sale. It has also 
provided details of Mrs Es overdraft limit record and loans she took out after the sale.
From these I can see that she seems to have been experienced in financial matters as she 
appears to have a regular income and other accounts and loans. I can also see that she 
didnt apply to increase her overdraft for six months after the AGA sale. But she did take out 
a large loan straight after and use a part of it to pay off her existing overdraft. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs E didnt take out the AGA because she thought 
she no choice but to do so to in order to get a higher overdraft.
Ive not seen any written evidence that NatWest recommended the AGA to Mrs E, such as 
an assessment of her circumstances. And this service has seen other evidence that 
NatWest sales at the time were non advised. So, I think its more likely than not this was a 
non-advised sale. This means that NatWest was only required to give enough information to 
Mrs E to make an informed choice.
And I think it did. I say this because Mrs E appears to have been aware of the account and 
subsequently benefitted from the discounts on her loan and overdraft. Mrs E says she 
travelled once a year at the time of sale, and so would have been covered by the AGAs 
travel insurance when she did. Much later when mobile phone insurance became part of the 
package, she registered mobile phones. And Mrs E could have closed the AGA at any time 
but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, I can see why she would have been interested in the AGA, and Ive not seen any 
evidence that there was anything NatWest didnt tell her that would have put her off.
Mrs E complains that NatWest charged for the AGA to access better loan rates, and I can 
see that it did. But this is a commercial decision that a lender is entitled to make and so in 
my view doesnt constitute a mis-sale.
So, although I know that Mrs E will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that she 
chose to take out the AGA, making an informed decision based on the information NatWest 
gave her, and NatWest didnt do anything wrong in the sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman