DRN-3807111
The complaint
Mrs L complained about the poor level of customer service she received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) servicing her boiler under her home care policy.
What happened
Mrs L was unhappy when she was informed during her annual boiler service in 2022 that 
she had a leak on the flue and the engineer informed her this shouldve been identified on 
the previous service carried out in 2021. She said since making the complaint, she received 
no response from British Gas even after emailing it several times for an update. In a later 
visit, British Gas carried out the repairs under the policy.
British Gas technical team reviewed the complaint. It accessed the report from the previous 
annual service, and it said there was evidence the flue was checked for leaks but there were 
none present at the time. So, British Gas said the 2021 service was carried out correctly.
British Gas acknowledged the engineer who carried out the service gave incorrect 
information and have provided training to him. As a gesture of goodwill, it waived the £60 
excess for the repairs carried out and paid £100 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused. Mrs L wanted £250 of compensation.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought British Gas had 
acknowledged what it had done wrong and thought the compensation it paid was fair for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs L disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed what British Gas said about the service in 2021. It said the engineer 
advised you that the inside wall and door insulation had deteriorated. The engineer also 
advised you that the hedge would need to be cut back away from the flu. This shows that the 
engineer did check the flue and there were no leaks present during the visit. I have checked 
the engineers notes provided from the 2021 visit and these are consistent with what British 
Gas has said. I am persuaded that the service carried out in 2021 was thorough. I think if the 
engineer advised on details as he did, then he would also have logged details of a leak if 
there had been one.
British Gas has acknowledged that the engineer from the 2022 service shouldnt have said 
the leak shouldve been picked up on the prior year service. It has provided feedback to the 
engineer to try and stop the same issue reoccurring.
I can see Mrs L had difficulty getting an update on her complaint. So, I have considered 
whether British Gas has provided reasonable compensation. It provided compensation of 
£160 (£100 plus £60 waiving the excess). I think this is fair in the circumstances for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. The misinformation provided by the engineer will have 
caused a level of frustration for Mrs L as would the difficulty in contacting British Gas. 
However, I can see British Gas records show it tried to contact Mrs L several times also 
without success. British Gas did fix the fault under the policy. So, I think this award is 
consistent with our services approach for compensation for the problems which occurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman