DRN-1999655
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA reversed a payment made to her 
account. She had sold and delivered an item, but a dispute was raised by the buyer. 
What happened
Mrs K sold a mobile phone on eBay for £770. She received payment through PayPal and 
arranged for the buyer to collect the phone from her. She says that happened, but PayPal's 
other customer - from whose account the payment to her had been made - then raised a 
dispute. 
PayPal concluded that the payment hadn't been authorised by its other account holder and 
reversed it, debiting the money from Mrs K's account. However, because Mrs K had given 
the phone to the buyer (rather than sending it to them), PayPal said she wasn't eligible for its 
Seller Protection. 
Mrs K didn't think that was fair. She had handed over the phone she'd sold but not been paid 
for it. And, she said, it wasn't made clear that Seller Protection didn't apply to this 
transaction. She referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators looked at 
what had happened. 
The investigator didn't think however that PayPal had treated Mrs K unfairly. He agreed that 
Seller Protection didn't apply where an item was collected in person. He didn't recommend 
that PayPal take any further steps to resolve the complaint. Mrs K didn't agree and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.  
I'm satisfied that the payment that Mrs K received into her PayPal account wasn't authorised 
by the holder of the account from which it was sent. I'm satisfied too that she wasn't involved 
in the misuse of the paying account and didn't know that account had been accessed by 
someone other than the account holder. To that extent, both she and the other Pay Pal 
customer had been targeted by fraudsters. 
Where someone receives money to which they're not entitled, the usual position is that they 
should return it. That's the case even if they weren't aware of the source of the funds. In this 
case Mrs K received funds she wasn't entitled to - through no fault of her own; it follows that 
PayPal was entitled to arrange for their return to the account from which they'd been wrongly 
taken.
PayPal does however provide some protection to sellers in a position similar to Mrs K's. As it 
has correctly pointed out, however, it doesn't apply in all cases. Specifically, it doesn't apply where goods are collected in person. It appears that it would have applied if, for example, 
she'd been able to show she sent the phone by post to the buyer. 
Mrs K has my sympathy; it does appear that she's been the victim of a scam carried out by 
someone who managed to gain access to someone else's account and to persuade her to 
allow collection in person. It doesn't follow however that PayPal should protect her in this 
case; its obligation to do so is largely limited to what it agrees to do in its terms and 
conditions - and, as I've explained, they don't cover this situation.         
My final decision 
For these reasons my final decision is that I don't require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs K's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman