The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 1997 Mrs M took out a credit card in store and at the same time she took out a PPI policy 
to protect her repayments. 
Mrs M complained to AXA that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree. As AXA refused to 
uphold her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, Mrs M brought her concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M has complained she was mis-sold the PPI as she says she would not have willingly 
requested to take out the PPI and it was added without her knowledge. 
Mrs M applied for her credit card in store. AXA has been able to provide a copy of the 
application form Mrs M completed and signed at the time. This shows that in the section 
about PPI there is some information about the cover and benefits that it would provide. 
There is also a tick box which says Yes, I want my account covered. This box has been 
ticked and Mrs M signed that form to confirm the contents were what she wanted. 
Mrs M should have been aware at the time she was taking out the PPI as she signed the 
credit card application which indicated she wanted PPI. The payments of the monthly 
premiums also appeared on her statements as a separate item and if she had any concerns 
about what it was for, she could have queried it and cancelled the policy at any time. 
Overall I think Mrs M at the time agreed to take out the PPI as she felt the benefits would 
have been useful. These were indicated on the application form as covering repayments in 
the event of sickness, accident or involuntary unemployment and death. Also included at no 
extra cost was purchase protection cover, protecting purchases for 12 months against 
accidental damage and theft.
DRN-1890883Whilst the actual cost information wasnt provided, this was £1.00 for every £100.00 of the 
balance. The benefits for a claim would have paid 15% of the balance monthly, plus there 
was the life cover to clear the balance if needed and it included the purchase protection. So, 
the benefits available under the policy for the cost paid were good.
I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable and as I have already indicated 
the premium appeared on the monthly statements, so Mrs M could have cancelled the policy 
at any time if unhappy with the cost. 
At the time of the sale of the PPI I dont think Mrs M was made fully aware of all the terms 
and conditions that applied to the policy and could have affected any claims. But Ive not 
seen any information or evidence to suggest Mrs M would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs M has told us she was employed, with no unusual employment conditions and she had 
no pre-existing medical conditions. So even if she had been given full information, as she 
was unaffected by them, I cant see that full and clear information would have done anything 
to change her decision to say Yes to taking out the policy. 
Mrs M says she had sick pay from her employer and says family would have helped if she 
had been unable to work. But everyones circumstances can change and there is no 
guarantee that at any particular time family would have been in a position to help and the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay. So the PPI would have allowed any sick 
pay to cover other expenses at what could have been a difficult time. 
I have taken note of Mrs Ms comments in response to our adjudicators view that she was 
paying for something that she didnt know she had. It is over 20 years since the policy was 
taken out and memories do fade over time. And as I have explained, the information from 
the time suggests she did agree to it and the premiums would have been shown on her 
statements, so she should have known she had the PPI. 
Taking account of all the factors and the limited information I have seen I dont think this 
policy was mis-sold. 
As AXA was not the lender in this case it is not responsible for any excess commission or 
profit share issues.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by AXA France IARD to Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman