The complaint
Mr G has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had an accident that caused damage to his expensive watch, and he made a claim 
under his insurance policy. Lloyds appointed a reputable dealer to repair the watch. And they 
looked to see if the manufacturer would repair the watch. But it wouldnt, this was because 
the diamonds and face had been added to the watch after market and werent genuine parts.
Mr G complained to Lloyds about this and the delay in dealing with his claim. It 
acknowledged that there had been a few delays and offered Mr G £130 compensation for 
the general poor service. But as the original manufacturer, and its appointed repairer, 
wouldnt deal with non-original parts (and couldnt guarantee the repair). It offered to repair 
Mr Gs watch and to pay for him to use his own independent jeweller to add the diamonds 
separately. However, its repairer said it couldnt even do this, so Lloyds asked Mr G to get 
his own quotation for the work. But Mr G wasnt happy about this as he wanted the 
manufacturer to repair his watch, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him, but ultimately, he didnt uphold his complaint. He 
accepted that Lloyds couldve dealt with Mr Gs claim better, but he thought that its offer of 
compensation for this was fair. But he didnt think that Lloyds position on repairing the watch 
was unfair.
As Mr G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but I hope my 
explanation will help him understand why.
I can understand why Mr G is frustrated about all of this. He simply wants his watch repaired 
and returned to him in the same condition as before. But as Lloyds repairing agent and the 
manufacturer dont deal with after market, non-genuine, parts they wont repair the watch. So 
Im not sure what else Lloyds can do here. 
Lloyds cant tell either of these to use non-genuine parts to repair Mr Gs watch and they 
have made it clear that they couldnt guarantee the work if they did. Similarly, I dont think it 
would be fair for Lloyds to pay more than it ought to, by asking the manufacturer to use an 
DRN-1616379original approved dial now. I know something like this was discussed at one stage. But once 
it was clear that the manufacturer or Lloyds usual repairer wouldnt use Mr Gs original dial 
(as the dial isnt genuine) then the position changed. And I accept the point that Mr G would 
actually be in a better position (as an original dial would be an enhancement on the non-
original dial) if it used a new part now.
As such, I dont think Lloyds offer is unreasonable. I say this as its offer would put Mr G back 
into the position he was in before the accident. His watch would be repaired using the 
diamonds and dial he had on the watch before the accident and Im sure his jeweller would 
guarantee the work. The alternative to this would be for Mr G to pay for a new dial himself 
and for the manufacturer or Lloyds chosen repairer to repair the watch with a new dial. Mr G 
could then get the diamonds fitted by his jeweller (as he has suggested doing in the past) 
which Lloyds has said it is happy to pay for.
I must highlight that Lloyds have always said that they agree that Mr G should get his watch 
back as close to the condition it was in before the accident as possible, which is what it has 
proposed. It cant instruct the manufacturer of the watch to use non-genuine parts or leave 
Mr G with a watch that wasnt guaranteed. So I cant say its offer, to allow Mr G to get the 
watch fully repaired by an independent jeweller, which it will pay for, is unreasonable. 
Ultimately, the main problem with repairing Mr Gs watch is down to the fact that it has been 
adapted after market with non-genuine parts. Given this I cant say that Lloyds is acting 
unreasonably in the offers it has made. It would have simply got the watch fixed by the 
manufacturer if it wasnt for this.
Finally, I agree that Lloyds couldve dealt with the claim better and delayed things at one 
stage. But I think its offer of £130 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill simply leave it to 
Mr G to decide if he wants to accept Lloyds offer now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman