DRN-2850506
The complaint
Ms N has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) have 
refused to pay for repairs to their car which were caused by a previous poor repair 
conducted by one of Direct Lines approved repairers. She has further complained that while 
assessing this matter Direct Line provided poor customer service. 
 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr Ms car was stolen and damaged. At the time, the car was insured with 
Direct Line through a policy in Ms Ns name.  Although Ms N is the policyholder, Mr M is the 
representative on his wifes behalf, and so I will refer to him throughout.
 
Direct Line accepted the claim and arranged for repair at one of their approved garages 
(Garage A). Garage A replaced parts of the front, left hand suspension and the front left-
hand headlight in June 2018. 
In October 2018 the car has its first annual service at the dealer garage (Garage B), and no 
issues were identified. 
During the second service in September 2019, Garage B advised Mr M and Ms N that the 
car had some defects. They said that that the ball joint in the front left-hand suspension was 
excessively worn, the far side rear lower arm mount hold was elongated in the sub frame 
and the front headlight was loose and damaged.  
Garage B advised that in their opinion the defects were caused by possible poor 
workmanship at the time of the initial repair. They advised that the suspension arm needed 
to be removed for further investigation and the condition of the ball joint needed assessing. 
They said the car was unsafe to drive and recommended that Mr M re- visited Garage A as 
the part was defective and required urgent attention. The report shows the repair would cost 
around £750 to rectify.
Mr M approached Direct Line on 25 September 2019 about this and Direct Line agreed to 
meet the cost of the repairs if Garage A had fitted the parts incorrectly. They arranged for a 
hire car to be provided for Ms N on 30 September 2019.  Mr M sent Garage Bs report to 
Direct Line. 
Direct Line spoke to the Garage A, who said that the repairs had been without issue, and 
they then arranged for a claims assessor to inspect the car.
The claims assessor inspected the car in the absence of Mr M and Ms N on 2 October 2019 
at Garage B. His report concluded that  the car has been involved in incidents since the 
original repair, wheels are kerbed, NSF wing has been scraped unable to relate any of this 
to the original repairer. If these errors were down to Garage A, they would have been noticed 
by them at this stage (Technician agreed) also NSF tyre would have had uneven wear. 
The report includes photographs of the car showing damage to the wheels, the missing bolts 
from the wing, the underside of the vehicle and the inside of the wheel. The ball joint is not 
mentioned, nor photographed. 
Direct Line advised Mr M the following day that the claims assessor had found that the 
defects were not caused by a poor quality repair, and they would not be meeting the costs of 
the repair.  Mr M asked for a copy of the report. 
Mr M thought that the report did not properly explain how the car had been examined and he 
rang the assessor. Mr M told us that the assessor admitted he had not examined the 
suspension but advised that the damage to the suspension could have been caused by 
brushing the kerb, driving over a pot hole, or another collision. He said that if the defects 
were the result of the repair, Ms N would have noticed the steering was wobbly and he 
disagreed that the car was unsafe to drive. He also said that he had inspected the car in the 
presence of the technician from Garage B, and that the technician had agreed with him.  
On 4 October 2019 Mr M rang Direct Line to complain about the report and about the claims 
assessor. The call handler agreed that the report was inadequate and agreed to arrange for 
a second assessor to inspect the vehicle. Mr M asked that he and his wife be notified of the 
inspection as they wanted to be present.  
On 9 October 2019 Direct Line contacted Mr M to advise that the inspection would be on 14 
October 2019. Mr M asked for it to a morning appointment, but the call hander said that they 
could not guarantee a time and would get the engineer to ring him. 
The engineer notified Mr M that the inspection would be in the afternoon, as the garage did 
not have a ramp available until 2pm. Mr M had to move his commitments to accommodate 
this. 
When Mr M and Ms N attended Garage B at 2pm, the engineer told them he was there to 
investigate unrelated damage from another incident, and he was not able to put the car on a 
ramp because there was none available. However, he did discuss the first report with Mr M 
and Ms N. He said he had reviewed the report and agreed with the first assessor. He did not 
examine the suspension of the car.  
Mr M rang Direct Line again on 14 and 15 October 2019 to complain that the car had not 
been inspected as agreed and that the engineer simply looked at the first claims assessors 
report. He was also unhappy that the engineer had contacted Garage Bs technician without 
his consent after they had left. The call handler agreed that it would be treated as a formal 
complaint and had been passed to customer relations. Mr M told us he thought Direct Line 
agreed to a third inspection.  
On 18 October 2019 Mr M received an email from Garage B which said that they had been 
told that the claim was closed. He contacted Direct Line and was told he would receive a 
letter that day. The hire car was stopped from 24 October 2019. 
On 28 October 2019 Mr M contacted Direct Line by phone and said he was unhappy that the 
engineer had contacted the garage direct, and that the agreement to a third examination had 
not been completed as agreed with the team leader on 18 October 2019.  
On 8 November 2019 Direct Line sent a final response to Mr M about his complaint 
regarding this. The complaint handler viewed the records, listened to the calls, and spoke to 
the members of staff involved. They did not uphold the complaint as they didnt think a 
further meeting with an engineer had been agreed and didnt think a data breach had 
occurred by them speaking to the garage. They also found that the staff were not rude and unprofessional. They did, however, offer a payment of £100 in respect of the conduct of the 
claims assessor and the wrong instructions being given to the second inspector. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and he thought that this didnt go 
far enough. He felt that the lack of an independent inspection of the car had prejudiced 
Direct Lines position and recommended a payment of £500 for the trouble and upset 
caused.   
Direct Line disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to decide is whether Direct Line have acted fairly and reasonably in their actions 
and their resulting decision not to pay for the repairs to Mr Ms car. 
I have carefully considered the report provided by Garage B, the testimony of Mr M and the 
documents provided by Direct Line, which includes the report of the claims assessor. Having 
done so, I have upheld this complaint and I will explain my reasons below.  
The repair
When Mr M made his complaint to Direct Line, he provided a copy of the report from Garage 
B which made it clear that the issue was that the ball joint was excessively worn and 
required replacement and attributed this to a previous poor quality repair. Direct Lines 
assessor was sent to examine the vehicle to establish the cause of the problem, but it 
doesnt appear that he did properly establish the cause. His report dated 2 October 2019 
includes photographs, mainly of the outside of the car, but none of the arm and ball joint 
which Garage B advised was the damaged part. There is one unclear image of the inside of 
the front near side wheel. 
In response to further enquiries I made, Direct Lines assessor has confirmed that he did not 
examine the ball joint as it had not been dismantled by Garage B. He says that it is a sealed 
unit and it would not be possible to tell if it was faulty by looking at it, and he concludes that it 
has failed through wear and tear or an impact. He does note that it may have been a faulty 
part but concludes that this would have been picked up at the time it was fitted through 
wheel alignment. 
I am not satisfied that this report was a comprehensive assessment of the damage being 
complained of by Mr M. There is no examination of the part in question, and no detailed 
assessment of the suspension. The report focuses on identifying minor exterior defects 
which it then attributes as being the cause of the damage to the ball joint, without actually 
examining the ball joint. I am unable to see how the conclusions could be drawn that the 
damage was not from a faulty repair or a faulty part without examining the repair itself and 
the damaged part.  
After Mr M complained about the quality of this report, Direct Line agreed to arrange a 
second inspection, agreeing that the initial report was inadequate. 
The second report dated 14 October 2019 again falls short in my view. It is not based on an 
examination of the vehicle but is an opinion on the report of the first assessor, which I have 
already said I do not consider to be adequate.  Further, the engineer was seemingly mis 
instructed, and thought he was sent to look at unconnected issues relating to a different 
claim. However, despite this, I am also mindful of the fact that the car had done 11433 miles since 
the repair, it had been serviced and repaired in the intervening period without an issue being 
picked up, and also that following the repair the wheels would have been tracked and 
aligned, which should have identified any issue. 
As a result of the inadequacy of the reports, and the opposing accounts, I dont find its  
possible to say that its more likely than not the original repair by Garage A caused the fault 
identified by Garage B. In the absence of any conclusive evidence, I find that I am unable to 
direct that Direct Line meet the cost of the repair. 
 
Trouble and upset
I can appreciate that this incident has been upsetting and stressful for Mr M and Ms N. 
I think that all in all, Direct Lines handling of Mr Ms complaint about this fault was poor. Mr 
M had been advised by Garage B that he needed an expensive repair to his car, and that 
this repair was needed as a result of a previous poor quality repair. He contacted Direct Line 
in good faith and on the advice of Garage B. He quite rightly didnt want to pay for a repair 
that may not be his fault. 
Whilst Direct Line initially agreed to an inspection, their subsequent handling has in my view 
led to a large portion of Mr Ms frustrations. 
The inadequacy of the first report, the concerns raised about the first claims assessor, the 
delay in arranging the second inspection, the failure to take note of Mr Ms request for a 
morning inspection, the incorrect instructions given to the second inspector and the repeated 
times that Mr M had to explain the situation each time he called are all areas where the 
customer service could have been better. 
I think that in view of this it is appropriate to make an award for trouble and upset, but I 
disagree with the amount offered by the investigator. 
I have taken into account that Mr M was provided with a hire car for the period from 30 
September 2019 to 24 October 2019, and so the majority of inconvenience and upset 
suffered was in respect of one appointment, and the communications between Mr M, Direct 
Line and their inspectors. I think an award of £200 fairly reflects this. 
I note Ms N has already been offered £100 but I am not sure if this has already been paid. If 
so, this will need to be deducted from the proposed award of £200. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Ms Ns complaint in part, and I 
invited the parties to comment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Ms N and Direct Line a copy of my provisional decision. Both have replied. Direct Line 
have accepted my recommendation. Mr M on behalf of Ms N has accepted the decision. He 
has, however, commented that I have not specifically referred in my decision to a number of 
the individual complaints raised. I wish to reassure Mr M and Ms N that I did consider all of 
the issues they have detailed, and when making the award for trouble and upset I decided on a global figure for all of the service issues, including those detailed, but focusing on those 
which caused the most inconvenience.
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I direct UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) to make 
a payment of £200 to Ms N.  Any payment already made will need to be deducted. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman