DRN-3974140
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Miss Y said
Miss Y had a friend round who asked to borrow her phone to make a call to her parent and 
order a taxi. Miss Y believed the original time the phone was with her friend was for ten 
minutes, but later this was reported as two periods of about 30 mins each time before getting 
her phone back. 
Later the same day, Miss Y noticed a text from another bank on her phone that asked her to 
call them about some suspicious transactions. Miss Y then checked her other accounts and 
noticed unusual transactions. She called the police who attended her home. It was at that 
point that Miss Y realised her handbag containing her Monzo card was missing. Miss Y 
reported the loss to the police.
The following day, Miss Y contacted Monzo about the loss and confirmed to them that a 
number of transactions that had left her account the previous day werent made by her. She 
believed that it was her friend who had made payments to another merchant using her card. 
These payments required the confirmation of a text message to her registered phone which 
had been actioned. Miss Y believes that it was her friend who had borrowed her phone to 
use it for these transactions which totalled about £600.
Miss Y asked for a refund and told Monzo that shed already received refunds from other 
accounts that were used to make additional disputed transactions. Monzo looked into the 
matter and declined to refund them. Miss Y then raised a complaint with Monzo who 
maintained they wouldnt refund her. Miss Y then brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Monzo said
Monzo received notification from Miss Y that her account had been misused and asked her 
what had happened. They believed that Miss Y had changed her story because she told 
Monzo that her friend only had the phone for ten minutes, this later changed to about an 
hour over two separate instances. 
Miss Y had also said her friend must have gone into her room (to discover her handbag with 
her account card in it), but later said it was in the hall. Due to these inconsistencies and the 
fact that the payments took place over the space of about an hour, they believed that Miss Y 
was responsible and declined to refund her. 
The investigation so far
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold it, commenting that:
There were several inconsistencies in the version of events described by Miss Y.
An unusually large deposit was made a few days before the disputed transactions 
took place.
The scenario was implausible that her friend could keep the phone for so long 
without Miss Y noticing.
The reason given for using the phone (calling a taxi/her relative) seemed unlikely that 
it would take so long.
An element of planning would have been required to obtain the necessary items from 
Miss Y to succeed (an unlocked phone and access to her debit card and privacy 
whilst in Miss Ys home) which seemed unlikely given the casual nature of the visit.
Miss Y disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a review of her complaint 
which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss Y liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss Y authorised 
the transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the card details for online payments 
conclusively proves that they were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Ys account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss Y. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss Y responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Miss Y believes her friend was responsible for making these transactions and made a report 
to the police about it. This is important in the context of the complaint because if an 
investigation established the theft from Miss Y, it would support her version of events about 
the disputed transactions. Put simply, if the polices investigation backed up Miss Ys story, 
then her complaint would likely be upheld because it could be demonstrated that she hadnt 
authorised the transactions herself. Numerous attempts over a number of months have been 
made to contact the police directly or via Miss Y herself. To date, nothing has been provided 
from either party.
Looking at the information supplied throughout the complaint, its apparent that Monzo 
believed Miss Ys version of events changed. Theyve said Miss Y told them her friend had 
her phone for ten minutes or so and later changed this to half an hour and she borrowed it 
on at least two occasions. 
I recognise there will often be some differences in how an incident is recalled, particularly 
those experienced under stress, and repeated over a period of time. Here, the retelling of the story was somewhat different, so its not easy to unpick what actually happened on that day. 
But, the final version shes told us about is plausible, because all someone needed to make 
these disputed transactions was access to her unlocked phone (which she already had in 
order to make a call) and her bank card (which Miss Y reported as stolen). I do have some 
reservations though, particularly the lack of third-party corroboration concerning the theft 
Miss Y reported.
To date Ive not seen any evidence of a police investigation or heard their view about what 
happened. Whilst its not my role to comment on a police investigation, I was surprised that 
no reports were provided, particularly as she knew who had taken her card and made those 
payments from her account. Miss Y also believed it was the same person who hacked her 
other accounts. Given the seriousness of the complaint and the known identity of the person 
(and her address) I would have expected some follow up and update be provided to Miss Y 
from the authorities investigations. Clearly Miss Y has no influence regarding the 
investigation of her complaint by the police, but the distinct lack of update means I havent 
been able to corroborate the version of events Miss Y is relying on. I wrote to her explaining 
the situation that I would likely have some difficulty supporting her complaint without that 
corroboration. Unfortunately, Ive heard nothing from Miss Y.
I also noted that Miss Ys account was mainly used to make payments from it (rather than as 
a main account that received regular income). It was topped up by transfers from other 
accounts as needed and most of those incoming payments were for relatively modest 
amounts. Three days before the disputed transactions took place, a larger transfer of £700 
was paid into the account, essentially funding the disputed transactions. 
Without those funds, the disputed transactions couldnt have taken place. Theres only one 
other similar incoming payment (£700) made about ten months earlier and £600 of that was 
transferred back to one of Miss Ys accounts without being used. So, the funding payment 
can be seen here as out of the ordinary.
In summary, there are a number of factors here that Ive considered:
Miss Ys version of what happened evolved considerably.
The lack of corroboration of her story.
An unusual payment received into her account that funded the disputed transactions.
A seemingly casual visit by a friend who was able to compromise several accounts 
and steal funds without Miss Y noticing. 
Whilst Im sure Miss Y will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to 
the conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Miss Y 
authorised or allowed her card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold Miss Y responsible 
for these transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman