DRN-2213767
The complaint
Ms D complains that AXA France IARD has not fully compensated her for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold with a store card.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Ms D complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI.   
In a letter dated 4 August 2019 AXA agreed to uphold Ms Ds complaint. In its letter it said 
the PPI was sold to her on 23 December 2003. offered Ms D £63.00 compensation.
Ms D remained unhappy with AXAs offer and asked this service to step in.  
An adjudicator from this service thought AXAs offer had been calculated in the way this 
service would expect and was fair. But the adjudicator thought AXA should pay Ms D an 
additional £30.00 because of the way it had handled her complaint.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a PPI policy was mis-sold this service expects a business , as far as is possible, to 
put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
In this case AXA doesnt hold full information about the account. But AXA does know the 
total amount in premiums Ms D paid for the PPI. And AXAs records show the account was 
opened in December 2003. From August 2005 it holds full records.
AXA knows Ms D paid a total of £27.94 in PPI premiums, it just doesnt know how these 
were spread over the period between December 2003 and August 2005. Using the 
information it holds for Ms Ds account after August 2005 it has made reasonable 
assumptions about how the PPI might have been applied before August 2005. And from 
these assumptions it has calculated how much interest Ms D might have been charged 
because of the PPI. In my view this is a fair approach to take where information is missing.
So AXA refunded the total PPI premiums paid by Ms D. It also refunded  £5.63 for the 
interest she would have been charged because of the premiums. AXA then added 
compensatory interest of £29.43 (net of tax) for the time shed been out of pocket.
I am aware Ms D thinks she may have held the store card account earlier and has a bank 
statement from 1988 showing a payment to the store chain associated with her store card 
account. But Ive seen the original application form for the account and I can see it is dated 
23 December 2003. So I am satisfied Ms D opened the account then.
So I think AXA has calculated the compensation due to Ms D in the way Id expect and I 
think the offer was fair.
AXA has said it shouldnt be responsible for any delays in the handling of Ms Ds complaint. 
It says the lender deals with the administration of complaints. But I disagree, AXA has 
accepted responsibility for this complaint and I think that includes the administration of the 
complaint.
When Ms D first contacted this service she says she had been told the offer was £63.00 in  a 
telephone call but had not received the final response letter , a breakdown of her offer 
calculation or any response to her questions about the offer.
Ms D has sent us two letters dated 11 September 2019 and another dated 20 February 2020 
in which she states she has not received the final response letter and asks for a breakdown 
of the offer. So Im satisfied AXA didnt respond to Ms Ds requests for a copy of the offer 
letter or answers to her questions about the offer.
I can also see that the adjudicator requested the business file from AXA in March 2020 but 
didnt receive a response until August 2020.
In my view these delays would have caused Ms D additional trouble and upset and I think 
AXA should pay Ms D a further £30.00 to compensate her for this.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Ms D £30.00 for the trouble and upset she experienced due to delays in 
dealing with her complaint.  
My final decision
AXA France IARDs offer of compensation for the mis-sold PPI policy has been calculated in 
the way Id expect and is fair. But  AXA France IARD should pay Ms D a further £30.00 to 
compensate her for delays in the handling of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman