DRN-2875139
The complaint
Mrs B and Ms B complain that Santander took too long to decide their application to port 
their mortgage, meaning that they lost the right to a refund of the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they had paid.
What happened
Mrs B and Ms B redeemed their mortgage with Santander on 25 January 2019. Under 
Santanders policy if they ported the mortgage to a new property within three months then 
Santander would refund some or all of the ERC that was payable. 
Mrs B and Ms B submitted an application to port the mortgage to a new property on 
15 March 2019. But they say that Santander took too long to make a decision, and asked for 
a lot of information that they felt it should already hold in relation to their previous mortgage.
Mrs B and Ms B say that due to the delays they experienced they felt that they had no 
choice but to apply for a mortgage with another provider. And they asked Santander to 
refund the ERC. But Santander didnt agree. 
Santander said, in summary, that while it had asked a number of questions, these were 
relevant to the application, and it couldnt evidence any errors or delays. And it said that the 
ERC couldnt be refunded as Mrs B and Ms B had decided to move lender, which meant that 
they no longer met the porting criteria to have this refunded.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander should take any action. She said, in 
summary that while she felt that Santander could have set aside the need for an affordability 
assessment, meaning that it could have issued the mortgage offer sooner, she couldnt say 
with certainty that the purchase would have completed by 25 April 2019. 
Mrs B and Ms B dont agree with our investigators view. They say in particular that they 
understand from their solicitor that they would have been able to complete within the 
necessary timeframe if Santander had moved faster.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered this complaint Ive reached the same decision as our 
investigator, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy of Santanders terms and conditions. This provides:
20 Refunding an early repayment charge on a transfer of your loan to a new 
mortgage
20.1 If you enter a new mortgage with us within three months of the date on which we 
discharge the mortgage, we may refund all or some of any early repayment charge 
which you paid at the time when the mortgage was discharged.
Mrs B and Ms B redeemed their original mortgage with Santander on 25 January 2019. This 
meant that they had until 25 April 2019 to complete on the application to port and the 
purchase of a new property. 
Mrs B and Ms B applied to port to a new property on 15 March 2019. This gave just under 
six weeks for them to obtain Santanders agreement to port the mortgage and also to 
complete the legal side of the purchase of the property. 
As our investigator has explained, Mrs B and Ms B werent looking to increase their 
borrowing. And, although Santander has said that the change in the loan to value (LTV) was 
a material change which required it to undertake an affordability assessment, I dont agree. 
While the LTV may have changed, it was within Santanders porting criteria. So I agree with 
our investigator that Santander could have set aside the need for the affordability 
assessment. If it had done so this would have allowed it to issue a mortgage offer sooner. 
I note that Mrs B and Ms B say that they understand they would have been able to complete 
within the necessary timescales if Santander had moved faster. But, although Ive 
considered what they have to say, I agree with our investigator that a property purchase 
usually takes longer than six weeks to complete. So I agree that, even if Santander had 
issued an offer sooner, I cant be sure that the property purchase would have completed by 
25 April 2019 as the timescales were very tight. And, for this reason, I am not persuaded it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to require Santander to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman