DRN-3769809
The complaint
Mr B complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited that he was mis sold a 3 Year Fixed 
Monthly Income IFISA Bond in July 2017. He says that he was not made aware when he 
invested that his funds would be lent to one business and not diversified to spread the risk.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr B invested £10,000 in a Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) 3 Year Fixed 
Monthly Income IFISA Bond. Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited 
(BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to 
call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Bs investment in the bond
Mr B visited the BG Ltd website in July 2017, he was introduced to the 
investment by a friend and was attracted by the interest rates on offer. He didnt 
discuss the bond with anyone at BG Ltd before he invested so relied on the 
paperwork and website to make the decision.
Mr B applied for the bond via the BG Ltd website.
Mr B had no previous experience of this type of investment so had no 
understanding of the risks involved. He had experience of buying shares, 
contributing to an ISA and savings with NS&I. He had no experience investing in 
unregulated investments. 
I have been supplied with a number of call recordings but none address the sale 
so I wont be relying on them when reaching my findings. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term 
and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went 
into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr B has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr B applied online when taking out the bond.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mr B underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr B was categorised as a self certified sophisticated investor. The 
second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Bs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said Mr B had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, 
once Mr Bs complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I 
have also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out 
general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr B as a self 
certified sophisticated investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bond for him was inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather 
sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Mr B met the criteria for a high net worth investor. Although BG Ltd didnt do 
anything to ascertain whether Mr B met this criteria, had they done so he 
wouldve been someone the bond could be promoted too.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr B wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr B to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium 
to compensate Mr B for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Bs complaint
It notes Mr B met the criteria of a high net worth investor.
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr B made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, 
and did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the 
investment regardless. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the releavant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
Mr B did not meet the criteria of a self certified sophisticated investor.  He was not a 
business angel, had never invested in unlisted companies, had no professional 
experience in this area and was not a director of a company with a turnover of 
greater than £1 miilion. He therefore did not meet the criteria and BG Ltd should have 
taken steps to check, which, if they had done so, would have made them aware Mr B 
did not meet the criteria. 
Mr B did meet the criteria of a high net worth investor, although BG Ltd did not 
ascertain whether he met this criteria.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr B. In the circumstances Mr B would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr B.
For these reasons my decision is that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied 
Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able 
to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And 
so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr B for his loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr B £300 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income IFISA 
BondStill exists but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman