DRN-3480137
The complaint
Ms F and Mr W complain about the way Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op 
Insurance [Co-Op] has handled a claim theyve made under their buildings insurance 
following subsidence.
What happened
As Mr W has led the complaint with this Service, Ill refer to him throughout. Co-Op is the 
underwriter of the policy and references I make to it include its agents and representatives, 
unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively detailed by our Investigator already so Ill provide a summary of whats 
happened.
Mr Ws property experienced subsidence damage and this was reported to Co-Op in 
2018. The claim was accepted and Co-Op appointed a specialist to validate and 
manage the claim.
Site investigations were undertaken including a bore hole being dug to establish the 
depth of the extensions concrete plinth. This hole partially filled with water and Mr W 
was concerned and thought Co-ops specialist should investigate this further in case 
it was connected to the subsidence.
Mr W was unhappy with a number of claim handling issues and complaints were 
made over the next few years. These included, but were not limited to, a drainage 
pipe from the patio being dug through and hidden, drainage repairs not being 
undertaken, the lack of monitoring pins in the aspect of the property Mr W said had 
most movement and key movement readings during dry months not being 
undertaken. 
Co-Op apologised for the things it got wrong and made a number of compensation 
payments to Mr W. These fall outside the scope of this complaint as they were raised 
with this Service outside the required deadline.
In light of Mr Ws concerns about the pooling water and the video evidence he 
supplied, Co-Op sent a senior surveyor to investigate in November 2019. His report 
said that further investigation of the issue should be undertaken and further 
boreholes were necessary to establish the subsoil make up and capacity and to see 
if further groundwater was encountered. Also, a further six-month period of 
monitoring was recommended. 
But Mr W says these recommendations were never followed up by Co-Ops 
subsidence expert. Mr W complained again to Co-Op but was told the senior 
surveyor had left and that crack monitoring indicated a return to stabilisation. Mr W 
says this was in spite of a failure to regularly monitor the monitoring pins or 
investigate the pooling water.
After more back and forth, Mr W instructed an expert engineer who said the cause of 
movement hadnt been established satisfactorily and Co-Op hadnt demonstrated 
stability had been achieved. He recommended further investigation should be 
undertaken including crack monitoring and the source of pooling water identified and 
eliminated. He also recommended the digging of further boreholes to establish the 
source of the groundwater and establish subsoil conditions in line with Co-Ops 
surveyors previous recommendations.
Eventually, Co-Op agreed for another expert to attend but Mr W was unhappy with 
the report as he said it didnt identify the source of the water or detail how quickly the 
borehole refilled with water.
In bringing his complaint to this Service, Mr W identified the key issues he was most 
concerned about. He says Co-Op hasnt done enough to identify the cause of the 
movement  particularly around the lack of the recommended further investigation 
into the trial pit which continues to fill with water. Hes also unhappy as hes said Co-
Op has ceased to provide buildings insurance cover.
During our Investigation, Co-Op appointed another expert who thought further 
investigation was warranted and following these, Co-Op did make recommendations 
to address the problems with the pooling water. This matter was still ongoing at the 
time of our Investigation and the actual detail of what Co-Op plans to do falls outside 
the scope of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, our Investigator upheld the complaint saying Co-Op 
should have investigated the pooling water sooner than it did and caused delays 
because it didnt. He said Co-Op should pay a total of £800 for the distress it had 
caused Mr W and should reimburse him for the expert report he had undertaken.
Co-Op and Mr W broadly accepted the recommendations but Mr W remained 
unhappy with the amount of compensation recommended and asked an Ombudsman 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has recently let this Service know about a very serious medical diagnosis he has 
received and I was sorry to hear this. The nature of my role requires me to consider the 
evidence and circumstances of a complaint in an impartial and dispassionate way. That may 
mean at times my decision sounds rather matter of fact and I mean no offence by this, it 
merely reflects the nature of my role.
Mr W has made a number of complaints throughout the life of this claim and our Investigator 
has already explained which we can consider and which we cant as they were raised too 
late. In summary, I can look at the issues dealt with under the final responses from 
November 2020 until the final response in March 2022. The claim is still ongoing and a 
number of other issues have been raised with Co-Op, but these fall outside the scope of this 
complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and may not comment on every point the parties have made but I can 
confirm I have considered everything even if I dont reference it specifically. 
Incidences of subsidence are, by their nature, stressful for homeowners, and insurance 
claims relating to them often necessarily take considerable time to resolve and I cant hold 
an insurer responsible for this. But I can consider if it met its obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly or if it caused unnecessary delay or inconvenience.
There are various aspects of the claim Mr W is unhappy with under the various complaints 
we can consider. 
Lack of investigation into the pooling water
Its clear Mr W was pushing Co-Op to investigate this from early on in the claim. He 
was concerned that the work Co-Op undertook on the drains it considered to be the 
cause of the subsidence still hadnt addressed the issue which he considered to be a 
significant risk. 
I acknowledge Co-Ops stance in saying that two leak detection specialists 
considered this wasnt necessary. And on its face, its not unreasonable it didnt feel 
the need to investigate further as initially it hadnt been shown the pooling was 
contributing to the subsidence. But I think its important to note, one of Co-Ops own 
experts said the issue did need further investigation in its report in November 2019. 
The 2019 report recommended the digging of deeper boreholes The purpose of the 
boreholes is to determine where/if groundwater is encountered and also to establish 
the subsoil make up and bearing capacity
It also recommended a further period of crack monitoring for six months to establish if 
the drainage works reduced the structural movement, to monitor the extent of 
movement and/or stability and to assist with the repair specification of the property. 
But this recommendation was not followed up following a change of Co-Ops 
surveyor.
Mr W then instructed his own expert and his report in October 2020 said there was 
clear evidence of subsidence but Co-Op had failed to satisfactorily establish the 
cause of the movement and it hadnt shown stability had been achieved. Further, the 
cause of movement needed to be established, mitigation measures implemented and 
then a period of monitoring to establish stability.
Importantly, the report also commented The source of the water in the trial pit needs 
to be identified and if possible eliminated. This is important since a build up of water 
can soften any cohesive soil under the foundations causing subsidence
Im satisfied these were broadly similar conclusions recommended to those in Co-
Ops November 2019 report. But it wasnt until December 2021, some two years after 
Co-Ops own expert said further investigation was required that Co-Ops new expert 
confirmed there was a need for further investigation and proposed remedial work to 
be undertaken to address the pooling water. Im satisfied, on balance, Co-Op should 
have taken Mr Ws concerns more seriously and the pooling water should have been 
addressed earlier, following the similar recommendations in the 2019 report. 
And because this matter wasnt addressed earlier, the claim has taken considerably 
longer to deal with than was necessary. This means the claim is still ongoing now 
and Mr W has had to dedicate many hours to chasing Co-Op, dealing with correspondence with Co-Op and its agents and this had had a significant impact on 
him and his family.
I will be keeping this in mind when deciding what I consider to be appropriate 
compensation.
Decrease in value of the property
Mr W was unhappy with the behaviour of one of Co-Ops representatives who he 
said made comments about the future saleability of the house. I note shortly after 
this, the representative was removed from the claim with no further involvement from 
him after that. 
Its not clear to me if this was a comment based on professional opinion or a 
throwaway comment made in haste. But either way, Ive not seen enough evidence 
for me to conclude this statement has any merit. Subsidence is an issue that occurs 
commonly and once repairs are undertaken, an insurer will often issue a Certificate 
of Structural adequacy confirming repairs have been successfully undertaken. 
Mr W says, when he comes to sell the property, its likely to have devalued 
significantly but Ive not seen any evidence to substantiate this claim nor that the 
market has been tested. Ive also seen nothing which shows any loss in value would 
be as a result of Co-Ops claim handling rather than the fact the property has 
experienced subsidence  which of course, Co-Op isnt responsible for.
I can also only make an award for something thats actually happened, not for 
something that may  or may not - happen in the future.
Given what Ive said above, I wont be asking Co-Op to do any more on this part of 
the complaint.
Renewal of the policy
Mr W purchased his policy through an insurance intermediary which Ill refer to as 
R. R declined to offer renewal of cover and issued a final response explaining why 
but I wont be commenting on its actions or the response it gave under this complaint 
about Co-Op.
Following a complaint to Co-Op, it explained in one of its final responses that as 
Mr Ws policy had been taken out through R, it wasnt responsible for the decision not 
to offer renewal, this fell to R. Im satisfied this is in line with what R told Mr W and 
Ive havent seen anything which persuades me it has responsibility for Rs 
commercial decision about policy renewal. Mr W has also suggested R's decision to 
decline to renewal was influenced by Co-Op. However, I've not seen evidence which 
persuades me this is the case.
Later, Co-Op explained that due to a restructuring of its business, it was no longer 
offering insurance through R. This Service doesnt have the power to tell an insurer 
what policies it should offer through which intermediaries. This is a commercial 
decision an insurer is free to make. Ive seen nothing which persuades me Mr W has 
been treated differently from other policy holders in similar circumstances. 
Insurers are obliged to update a central insurance database with details of claims. Im 
satisfied Co-Op has acted in line with its obligations in updating this database and I 
cant hold it responsible for underwriting decisions made by other insurers as a consequence of this. 
Other issues
There are many customer service issues which Mr W has raised, including but not 
limited to poor communication, lack of adequate warning when visits were 
undertaken and missed crack monitoring. In line with what Ive said previously about 
this Services quick and informal approach, I wont comment on these individually. 
But Im satisfied Co-Op has let Mr W down badly and has caused him stress and 
inconvenience because of its poor complaint handling. 
Mr W had concerns about the positioning of the monitoring pins Co-Op used to 
monitor the cracks. Mr Ws expert recommended crack monitoring should be 
reinstated and monitoring pins should be fitted in particular areas. Co-Op agreed to 
this further monitoring and distortion measurements to better understand the 
movement. As the engineers are the experts in subsidence and we would generally 
be guided by their opinion, I wont make any further recommendations about this.
As I explained above, Co-Op has now made proposals to deal with the water 
accumulating in the trial pit. Its clear from correspondence that Mr W has concerns 
about these proposals and the monitoring Co-Ops undertaking. And as Ive 
explained at the start, further issues have been raised in connection with the ongoing 
nature of the claim.
These fall outside the scope of this complaint, but Mr W can complain to Co-Op 
about these new issues and bring a further complaint to this Service if he remains 
unhappy with Co-Ops response.
Putting things right
This claim has gone on for a number of years and covered multiple issues but as Ive 
previously explained, I can only consider some of the issues raised by Mr W rather than the 
whole life of the claim.
Ive kept in mind there were a number of serious health issues affecting Ms F through the 
time under review and I know Mr W attributes some of these to the delays in the claim 
handling by Co-Op. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied I can safely conclude these 
are directly attributable to Co-Ops actions. But I do acknowledge the delays experienced are 
likely to have had a greater impact at what was an already difficult time.
Ive also had to keep in mind that the physical damage to the property wasnt significant and 
didnt involve Mr W having to relocate to alternative accommodation, so the impact on day to 
day practicalities was less than it could have been. But I do acknowledge the impact of the 
delays and time Mr W had to spend corresponding with Co-Op and its agents and the 
frustration this caused.
Mr W also says the delays meant he couldnt move to a house in the catchment area of his 
preferred school for one of his children. As a consequence, he says hes incurred additional 
expenditure in the form of private tutoring fees and says Co-Op should reimburse him. But I 
think this additional expenditure is simply too remote from the delays or complaint handling 
for it to be fair or reasonable for me to direct Co-Op to pay.
In summary and for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive concluded Co-Op has let Mr W 
and his family down and should pay compensation as a consequence. Ive thought about 
this all very carefully and will be directing Co-Op to pay Mr W £800, less the £350 its already paid, for the distress and inconvenience it caused him because of its claims handling and 
delays. 
Additionally, Ill be directing it to reimburse Mr W with the cost of the expert report he had 
undertaken in support of his claim. If Co-Op had followed the recommendations of its expert 
in November 2019, it seems to me Mr W wouldnt have had to instruct his own expert to 
prove the same point.
As the claim is still ongoing and Mr W has further concerns about Co-Ops handling there 
may be additional complaints brought to this Service which may attract further awards of 
compensation. But overall, Im satisfied the direction Ive detailed above is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the period of time under review.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Soteria Insurance Limited trading 
as Co-Op to pay Miss F and Mr W:
£800 for the distress and inconvenience its caused through the period under review, 
less the £350 its already paid.
Reimburse Ms F and Mr W with the cost of the expert investigation and reports they 
had commissioned subject to the provision of suitable proof of the cost they incurred. 
Co-Op must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms F and 
Mr W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman