DRN-4175035
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has unreasonably delayed 
dealing with his request to pay him his share of the uncrystallised funds pension lump sum 
(UFPLS) from his pension accounts.
What happened
Mr T has two pension policies with Prudential.
In or about 1988 Mr T was declared bankrupt and a Trustee in Bankruptcy was appointed 
at that time. Mr T acknowledges that the Trustee in Bankruptcy has an interest in the 
pension policy which was opened prior to the date of the bankruptcy. 
The second pension account was opened subsequent to Mr T having been discharged from 
his bankruptcy.
In June 2021, Prudential sent the Trustee in Bankruptcy details of the pension policies. The 
letter stated that although the Trustees interest was only noted in respect of one of the 
pension policies, the policies were linked which meant they both had to be taken together.
The Trustee in Bankruptcy signed the payment form attached to the letter to indicate that 
he wanted the UFPLS to be paid to him. He asked Mr T to sign and date the declaration on 
this payment form and return it to him. Mr T sought advice about the matter and after 
subsequent correspondence the Trustee confirmed that he only had an interest in the 
current fund value of non-protected rights in the policy and contributions made before the 
date of the bankruptcy. It was a matter for Prudential to confirm the split in the available 
funds when it made the payment under the policy.
On 23 August 2021, Mr Ts representative wrote to Prudential, enclosing the
correspondence from the Trustee in Bankruptcy, and asked it:
Could you therefore let us know how you intend to apportion pre and post pension 
contributions between the bankruptcy fund and our clients retirement fund.
Despite Mr T sending it follow up letters, Prudential didnt respond and Mr T complained. 
He then sent several further follow up letters because he hadnt received a response to his 
complaint and he referred his complaint to our service in November 2021.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He contacted Prudential and on 25 March 2022 
it sent Mr T a response to his complaint. It acknowledged that due to various systems 
issues it had been experiencing, delays had been caused to its production of manual 
calculations. It apologised for its poor service and sent Mr T a cheque for £400 by way of 
apology. It said that once it had resolved the issue it would contact him again with a final 
response to his concerns. It said that whilst it could not provide a timescale it would ensure 
any work was completed as quickly as possible.
On 5 May 2022 Prudential sent the Trustee in Bankruptcy its response to the letter Mr Ts 
representative had sent it on 23 August 2021. This letter set out the values bifurcation for 
both policies. The Trustee responded on 23 June 2022. It reiterated that because it only 
had an interest in part of the policy, it did not wish to realise the entire fund. It asked 
Prudential to send it the Uncrystallised funds form to enable it to drawdown the part of the 
funds in which it was claiming an interest.
Prudential sent the values bifurcation to Mr T on 29 June 2022. It explained that as the 
option of partial withdrawals was not a feature of his policies the matter had been referred 
to its technical team. If Mr T confirmed that he was willing to settle the benefits as UFPLS, 
Prudential could issue the withdrawal forms simultaneously to both Mr T and the Trustee in 
Bankruptcy.
Around this time, Prudential also indicated to Mr T that because his policy included 
protected rights worth in excess of £30,000 he would need to obtain written advice from an 
independent financial adviser before it would accept his instruction to pay him the UFPLS.
Mr T obtained advice from an independent financial adviser and on 26 July 2022 Mr Ts 
adviser told Prudential that Mr T wanted to take the UFPLS. Prudential said it would send 
him the payment forms but no forms were issued. Our investigator asked Prudential why it 
hadnt issued the payment forms. It said that the matter had had to be referred back to its 
technical team.
Because of the passage of time our investigator issued his view about what needed to be 
done to resolve the matter. He said he was satisfied, on balance, that there had been 
undue delays by Prudential. He thought it should now pay the funds in the way that it 
needed to and that it should do this by 16 October 2022 and also provide its final response 
to Mr Ts complaint by that date. He thought it shouldnt have to pay Mr T anything further 
for distress and inconvenience. It had already paid him £175 in July 2021 when hed initially 
complained to it and a further £400 in March 2022. He thought this was in line with what our 
service wouldve awarded for distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr T said that Prudential had still not issued claim forms to him or made the payment. So, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been several delays by Prudential here.
The response to the letter dated 23 August 2021
Ive looked firstly at the letter dated 23 August 2021 which Mr Ts representative 
sent to Prudential. That letter clearly set out certain important matters:
It requested an apportionment between the pre and post pension 
contributions between the bankruptcy fund and Mr Ts retirement fund; andIt enclosed a copy of the letter from the Trustee in Bankruptcy which 
explained that it only had an interest in current fund value of non-protected 
rights amount and contributions made before the date of bankruptcy. 
Prudential will have to confirm the split in the available funds from the 
pension when they make a payment to us.
Having looked at this letter and the enclosure Im satisfied that Prudential had 
enough information to comply with the request within a reasonable period of time  
taking account of the fact that this was not a straightforward request and would have 
required manual intervention from the technical team.
Prudential didnt send Mr T a response until June 2022  which was ten months 
later. In its earlier letter dated 25 March 2022 Prudential had set out some of the 
difficulties it was experiencing with systems changes which it said had contributed to 
the delay. But, even accounting for systems issues, which can arise from time to 
time, I dont think it was fair or reasonable that Mr T should have to wait for ten 
months to receive the values bifurcation he requested.
Prudential has paid him £575 (in total) by way of compensation for the delays he 
experienced here. Ill comment further below on whether I think that is sufficient 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr T experienced as a result of 
this delay.
I have noted that despite the delay Mr Ts fund remained invested throughout this 
period.
Delays issuing payment forms to Mr T
Prudential explained to Mr T that before it could issue him with payment forms to 
take his share of the UFPLS he would have to obtain independent financial advice. 
It said the reason for this was because Mr Ts pension contained protected rights 
and it was worth more than £30,000. In these circumstances, I dont think Prudential 
did anything wrong when it required Mr T to obtain independent financial advice 
before it could issue payment forms to him.
Mr Ts representative confirmed to Prudential on 26 July 2022 that Mr T wanted to 
take the UFPLS. At that point in time the obligation to issue the payment forms 
passed to Prudential because, Im satisfied on balance, it had all of the information it 
needed to issue the forms and, if they were in order, make the payments to both the 
trustee in Bankruptcy and Mr T.
Prudential has not done that  despite the deadline our investigator gave it. It said 
the reason for this is because it needs to refer the issue to its technical team. It has 
also said, more recently, that the reason relates to a requirement that the full claims 
journey has been completed including ensuring that the customer has gone 
through the full risk assessment journey, before it can issue any claims forms.
Prudential has recently informed us that it issued the claim forms to Mr T on 13 
October 2022. Mr T says he has not received these forms.Having looked at the history of events here, I dont think the explanations given by 
Prudential are acceptable. When reaching that view Ive taken into account what 
Prudential said in its letter dated 25 March 2022 
We should have taken ownership of this from the start, responded to your 
request in a timely manner and provided you with the information you 
requested within our correct timescale.
Even if the matter did need to be referred back to its technical team because 
calculations had to be updated, Prudential has had adequate time to complete its 
processes. Ive also noted that Mr T, at Prudentials request, appointed an 
independent financial adviser to provide him with advice about his options. Im 
satisfied, on balance, that Mr T and his representative have requested the 
necessary claim forms on several occasions. But, despite assurances that these 
forms have been issued, neither Mr T, nor his representatives, have received the 
forms. So, Im not persuaded that Prudential has taken ownership of this matter or 
sought to comply with Mr Ts instructions.
The repeated delays and inadequate explanations here have created additional 
administrative burdens on Mr T as hes had to progress his claim by making a 
significant number of follow up calls and letters to Prudential. It has agreed to issue 
payment forms but it hasnt done so. Mr T says he still hasnt received the forms. 
Prudential has presented excuses for not progressing matters and Mr T hasnt 
received the payment he requested. I dont think that is in line with what Prudential 
accepted in its letter of 25 March was how it should deal with Mr T.
Having thought about the protracted delays, distress and inconvenience Mr T has 
experienced here, Ive provisionally decided Prudential should pay him an additional 
amount of £400 (£975 in total) by way of compensation.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint Ive provisionally decided that Prudential should 
now take the following actions:
Issue the payment forms, by recorded delivery, within 28 days of the date 
when Mr T accepts my final decision, to both Mr T (and if it has not already 
done so, to the Trustee in Bankruptcy) to enable them to seek payment for 
their respective interests in the UFPLS for the pension policies;
make payment to both parties within 15 days of the date of receipt of the duly 
completed payment forms; and
pay Mr T an additional £400 (£975 in total) by way of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience he experienced here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint about The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited.
I intend to require it to take the following actions:
Issue the payment forms, by recorded delivery, within 28 days of the date when 
Mr T accepts my final decision, to both Mr T (and if it has not already done so, to the Trustee in Bankruptcy) to enable them to seek payment for their respective 
interests in the UFPLS for the pension policies;
make payment to both parties within 15 days of the date of receipt of the duly 
completed payment forms; and
pay Mr T an additional £400 (£975 in total) by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Mr T said he accepted the provisional decision. 
Prudential also responded to my provisional decision. It said it issued a further final 
response letter to Mr T on the same date as Id issued the provisional decision. In that 
response letter it had acknowledged that its overall lack of communication was 
completely unacceptable and had caused Mr T a lot of unnecessary confusion distress 
and inconvenience. It said it had issued the payment forms to him on 13 March 2023 but 
he hadnt returned the forms.
Prudential offered him an additional £200 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. In response to my provisional decision it said it was willing to increase this 
to £400 (£975 in total). 
In its letter to Mr T, Prudential had also offered to review his case after payment had been 
made to assess whether hed incurred any financial loss as a result of its delays.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision and in particular what Prudential 
told Mr T, in its recent letter, it was willing to do after payment of his UFPLS had been made. 
Neither Mr T nor Prudential has provided any new or additional information that causes me 
to change my view, nor the reasons for my view, that this complaint should be upheld. 
However, having read the response from Prudential, I have decided to amend the actions I 
require it to take to resolve the complaint. Ill explain why.
I wrote to Prudential and Mr T to explain that, having read Prudentials letter dated 6 April 
2023, I thought it was fair and reasonable that Prudential had offered, after payment was 
made, to assess whether Mr T had suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay here. 
In light of that I said I intended to amend the actions I would require Prudential to take to 
resolve this complaint  to include a requirement for it to assess whether Mr T had suffered 
any financial loss as a result of its actions.
I noted that the initial request, to apportion pre and post pension contributions between the 
bankruptcy fund and Mr Ts retirement fund, had been made on 23 August 2021. Whilst I 
thought there were steps that needed to be taken after that date before payment could be 
made  such as the bifurcation calculations by the technical team, the requirement for Mr T 
to take independent advice, complete the payment forms and for Prudential to process the 
payment  I said I thought these steps could reasonably have been completed within 3 
months. So, I thought the payment could reasonably have been made by 23 November 
2021.For purposes of assessing whether Mr T had suffered any financial loss as a result of 
Prudentials delays, I thought it was fair and reasonable that the calculation should be based 
on the difference in the UFPLS Prudential would have paid out in respect of Mr Ts interest in 
the two policies had that payment been made on 23 November 2021 compared to what it 
ultimately paid him. 
I thought the calculation should take into account any necessary adjustments and 
deductions to the amount due to Mr T (e.g. income tax and any applicable charges). In 
addition, if the calculation showed that Mr T had suffered a financial loss, Prudential should 
pay him an additional 8% simple interest on the amount of his loss for the period from 23 
November 2021 up to the date he receives the compensatory interest payment. If the 
comparison showed that Mr T had not suffered a loss as a result of the delay in payment, 
then no additional financial compensation or compensatory interest would be payable to him.
Prudential confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and the proposed amendment 
to the actions I required it to take. 
Mr T also accepted my provisional decision and the proposed amendment to the actions I 
required Prudential to take.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited. 
I now require it to take the following actions:
Issue the payment forms, by recorded delivery, within 28 days of the date 
when Mr T accepts my final decision, to both Mr T (and if it has not already 
done so, to the Trustee in Bankruptcy) to enable them to seek payment for 
their respective interests in the UFPLS for the pension policies;
make payment to both parties within 15 days of the date of receipt of the duly 
completed payment forms;
after the payment has been made, carry out a review to assess whether Mr T 
has suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in payment. For the 
purposes of this calculation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
should compare: 
othe UFPLS (in respect of Mr Ts interest in both policies) it would have 
paid Mr T, after making the necessary adjustments and deductions for 
income tax and any applicable charges, if it had made the payment to 
him on 23 November 2021; against
othe actual UFPLS it pays him (in respect of his interest in both 
policies), after making the necessary adjustments and deductions for 
income tax and any applicable charges at the date of payment. 
If the calculation shows that Mr T has suffered a financial loss because of 
the delay in payment, The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should 
pay that amount to him as a lump sum together with 8% simple interest* 
on that amount for the period since 23 November 2021 to the date of 
payment of the compensatory interest. If the calculation shows that no 
loss has been suffered, no compensation or compensatory interest for 
financial loss caused by the delays would be payable; and
pay Mr T an additional £400 (£975 in total) by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.* If The Prudential Assurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr T it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate."
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman