DRN-3176066
The complaint
Mr L complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly when it closed his bank accounts.
What happened
Mr L says he contacted TSB in December 2020 after it had sent a letter to him by email, 
detailing changes to the terms and conditions of his bank accounts with them. Mr L was 
concerned these changes meant TSB could potentially close his bank accounts, as he lived 
abroad. Although TSB confirmed at that point it hadnt made the decision to close bank 
accounts for consumers who lived in the country Mr L resided, Mr L says he then received a 
letter from TSB in March 2021 saying it had attempted to call him unsuccessfully and it may 
need to block his bank accounts. This was followed by a letter from TSB in April 2021 giving 
Mr L two-months notice it would be closing his bank accounts with them. During the course 
of his complaint to this service, Mr L says he was sent the closing balance by way of cheque 
from TSB in mid-June 2021. Mr L feels TSB shouldnt be able to close his bank accounts 
without reason and have effectively closed his financial capabilities in the UK as a result of 
its actions. Mr L says TSB knew he lived abroad and despite knowing that sent him a 
cheque in sterling which would make matters difficult and expensive for him, adding to the 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
Mr L says he has gone through a considerable amount of inconvenience and stress as a 
result of TSBs actions and if it refuses to re-open his bank accounts, TSB should 
compensate him for this, commensurate to the length of time he has banked with them.
TSB says it made a commercial decision to close Mr Ls bank accounts and this was in line 
with the terms and conditions of his bank accounts with them. TSB says they did attempt to 
telephone Mr L and asked him to contact its Personal Account Review Unit (PARU) as they 
asked, but in any event it was unlikely they would have changed its business decision to 
close Mr Ls bank accounts. TSB says it gave Mr L two months notice to make alternative 
banking arrangements and have done nothing wrong here. 
Mr L wasnt happy with TSBs response to him and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt TSB had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls bank 
accounts, when it gave two months notice of the closure of those bank accounts. The 
investigator says TSB can make a commercial decision to terminate banking relationships, 
provided they give a suitable notice period before doing so, which they did here. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr L to learn, after having banked with TSB for 
many years, it now wanted to close his bank accounts, simply because he was an overseas 
resident. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB acted unfairly when they took the 
decision to terminate the banking relationship it had with Mr L. 
Mr L has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything hes said and sent us  I have. Mr L has also provided this 
service with details of other service issues he experienced in the past with TSB, but for the 
purposes of this complaint I will only look at whether TSB acted fairly when it decided to 
close his bank accounts with them.
Mr Ls complaint centres around whether it was fair of TSB to close his bank accounts with 
them in the UK, simply because he is an overseas resident. Mr L has also implied he is 
being singled out here and TSB havent been entirely truthful when they say they attempted 
to contact him about this matter and also, even after they had decided to close his bank 
accounts, they sent him a cheque for the balance in sterling, making it inconvenient and 
costly for him to bank it. 
I understand what Mr L is saying here but its worth saying that this service isnt the 
regulator, thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so we cant tell 
businesses what business model they must adopt when it comes to providing banking 
services for overseas residents. While I know Mr L feels strongly about this and may not 
agree, what is important here is whether or not banks like TSB make this clear to consumers 
and any actions it takes as a result of those policies are within a reasonable timeframe. 
Here, Mr L was given details of the changes to TSBs terms and conditions in December 
2020, and in those terms and conditions, under Section 16 how can we end this agreement 
it does state, if you move abroad or had previously moved abroad (like Mr L), TSB will write 
and give two months notice of its implementation. I am satisfied Mr L was made aware of 
this and it was those changes to the terms sent to him that prompted Mr L to write and 
complain to TSB in December 2020. So, its fair to say those terms and conditions apply to 
all of TSBs customers and not just Mr L and as the investigator has pointed out, this is a 
commercial decision for TSB to take and its not my role to tell it, they cant. 
I have also seen a letter from TSB addressed to Mr L dated 5 April 2021, asking him to make 
alternative banking arrangements and that it would be closing his bank accounts in June 
2021. From the information I have seen, Mr Ls bank accounts were closed on 12 June 
2021, which met the terms of notice under the bank account terms and conditions referred to 
earlier.   
Although I understand this may have caused Mr L some inconvenience, thats not to say 
TSB cant decide whom they wish to have as customers, in the same way a consumer can 
freely choose to bank elsewhere, without reason. 
Mr L has also commented on the fact TSB suggested it tried contacting him and this wasnt 
entirely true, as Mr L says TSB only made one phone call to him late one evening, and didnt 
consider the time differences and no other attempts were made to call him. While I can see this telephone call may have been late in the day and Mr L may not have wanted to take the 
call at that time, TSB did try and contact him and followed this up with email correspondence 
and also suggested he contacted their PARU. Its reasonable to say as the account closure 
was a business wide decision and given Mr Ls circumstances, it was unlikely TSB would 
have changed its decision to end the banking relationship, in any event. 
I also understand that Mr L is unhappy TSB sent him a cheque in sterling for the closing 
balance of his bank accounts with them, which created more inconvenience and cost for 
him. While I am aware that has resulted in Mr L paying fees of around £18 for the banking of 
the cheque overseas, I cant see Mr L gave any other instructions to TSB for its settlement, 
so I am satisfied it was reasonable of TSB  to forward a cheque to him, in the currency of the 
bank accounts he held in the UK. Its also reasonable to say if Mr L had wanted the closing 
bank account balance sent by another method or say in a different currency, that may well 
have incurred some charges for doing so.
I can see that Mr L feels he has now been left with no banking facility available to him in the 
UK, as a result of TSBs actions, but I cant hold them responsible for that, for the reasons I 
have already given. It may be possible for Mr L to find a UK based bank to provide a bank 
account to suit his purposes but thats something for him to investigate. 
While Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman