DRN-1440621
The complaint
Ms G complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a claim incorrectly under her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2018 Ms G was involved in an accident and notified Admiral about this. Over the 
course of the next 12 months, they told Ms G they were disputing liability for the accident 
and were prepared to settle the claim on a 50 / 50 basis.
But then without any other notification Ms G was sent a letter that said the claim had been 
fully settled in the other partys favour. As this was completely different to what shed been 
told on the phone she complained  maintaining the claim should only have been settled on 
a 50 / 50 basis.
Admiral replied to the complaint. They accepted theyd made an error and said they 
shouldnt have fully settled the complaint. They explained this was a mistake by their case 
handler in November 2018 who mistakenly accepted full liability and offered Ms G £100 
compensation. But they also said this error would have no further impact on Ms G.
Unhappy with this Ms G asked us to look into things. She explained she was very concerned 
about having to declare a claim as fully settled (which tends to be called a full fault claim), 
when it should have been settled on a 50 / 50 basis because of the potential effect on her 
insurance premiums. She also said shed spoken to her new insurance company who 
confirmed her understanding was correct. And she provided some information which she 
said showed her premiums had increased as a result of the claim being fully settled.
Our investigator felt that there wasnt enough evidence to demonstrate the reason for Ms Gs 
premium increases were due to the way the claim was settled. But she did agree Admiral 
hadnt handled things well and felt an additional £100 compensation was fair.
Ms G didnt agree with this though. She said her premiums had increased and said they 
shouldnt have as nothing had changed. And she emphasised a key concern of hers was 
she was at risk of increased premiums if future insurers consider a fully settled claim more of 
a risk than a 50 / 50 settled claim  not to mention shed have to endure ongoing stress of 
having to get in touch with prospective insurers to discuss this. Because of these issues she 
didnt think an additional £100 was a fair settlement, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want Ms G to know that Ive read everything shes said, so while I may not have 
reflected everything shes told us, I have taken it all into account in reaching the outcome I 
have.
Generally, an insurer retains the right to decide how to settle liability and that can only be 
decided by a court if the policyholder were to disagree  so I wouldnt usually get involved in 
how an insurer has chosen to settle liability. But, in this case Admiral have said they were 
going to pursue a 50 / 50 liability for the claim and made a mistake settling it fully. So, given 
Admiral have accepted that, my focus is on the impact this mistake has had on Ms G. And I 
need to make sure, as far as possible, Admiral have put Ms G in the position she would have 
been in, had they not made this error.
To do that I need to consider what financial losses, if any, Ms G has suffered as a result of 
what happened. This includes Ms Gs arguments about her premiums. I also need to make 
sure information about Ms Gs claim are recorded correctly as far as possible on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
Premium costs
Ms G has argued that between September 2018, when her claim was going to be settled on 
a 50 / 50 liability, and September 2019 when shed been held fully liable, her insurance 
premiums increased. Shes argued there shouldnt have been an increase at all. But I cant 
agree with Ms G here.
I think its helpful to explain that premiums can increase when any incident, non-fault claim or 
fault claim (whether 50 / 50 or 25 / 75 for example) is reported. Any percentage of fault 
makes it a fault claim.
And the cost of premiums isnt just affected by incidents or claims  theyre also affected by 
a number of other factors which can include things like the policyholders age, and changes 
to the way insurers rate risk.
I cant go into more specific information because its commercially sensitive, but Admiral 
have shown me why Ms Gs premiums have increased. Im satisfied the information Admiral 
have provided is fair and reflects the reasons why Ms Gs premiums increased at renewal.
Because of that, although I understand Ms Gs concerns, Im satisfied shes not been 
charged higher premiums because of Admirals error in how they settled the claim.
Information recorded on CUE
Admiral had planned to argue Ms Gs claim should be settled on a 50 / 50 split liability basis. 
Because of this, I think its only appropriate the way its recorded on CUE reflects this so 
future insurers can potentially see this information.
Admiral have told us theyve recorded the claim as a fault claim, with the no claims discount 
not allowed, and 50% of the costs they paid out.
Itll help to explain that any claim where an insurer has to pay out money that isnt recovered 
will be recorded as a fault claim. So, its right theyve recorded it as a fault claim on CUE. I 
also think theyve recorded the no claims discount correctly  because this generally only 
stays intact when all costs are recovered from the other insurer. And as Admiral were 
arguing for the split liability its right only 50% of the costs they paid out are recorded on 
CUE.
So, although all insurers may not always look at this information  or factor it in when 
calculating premiums for Ms G in the future  Im satisfied Admiral have done all they can to 
record this accurately on CUE for other insurers to be aware of.Compensation for the error
Originally Admiral offered £100 compensation but agreed to increase this to £200 after our 
investigator recommended this. In addition, Admiral have sent Ms G a letter explaining 
theyd made a mistake in how the claim was originally settled.
Ms G doesnt think £200 is enough for the ongoing frustration of having to explain what 
happened to future insurers.
But I think what Ms G needs to understand is that shed always have to report a fault claim  
and for some insurers the way its been settled may not make any difference to her 
premiums. And in any event, Id expect Ms G not to have to report this after a few years, so 
the impact of it is limited in that sense. I do think Admiral have handled things poorly  but I 
think the overall £200 compensation, plus the letter, is fair. Ms G will also have this decision 
to evidence what she says to future insurers, should it be helpful.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms G 
a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman