DRN-3570823
The complaint
Mr T complains that Society of Lloyd's caused unnecessary delays when dealing with his 
claim on his home insurance following a flood. 
Throughout this complaint Mr T has been represented by a third party. However for ease of 
reading, all references to Mr T include the actions of his representative.  
What happened
Mr T had home insurance with Lloyds. In February 2020 he made a claim after a flood 
caused by a nearby river. Lloyds accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. 
However due to the Covid-19 pandemic they could only initially inspect the damage by video 
call. They carried out two video inspections, then once able to, visited the property in August 
2020.
Over the months that followed there was debate between Mr T and the loss adjuster about 
the appropriate settlement amount for the required repairs. After the first inspection it had 
offered around £36,000, however this was increased over time and in May 2021 Mr T agreed 
to a revised settlement of around £239,000.
However Mr T was unhappy with how the claim had been handled. He said it had taken 
around 16 months to resolve when it should have been much quicker. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had progressed the claim as quickly as it could 
but was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which was out of its control.
Mr T didnt think this was a fair outcome, as he felt the claim had been delayed by around 
ten months due to Lloyds. He also said he had to appoint a loss assessor in order to get a 
fair settlement so thought Lloyds should pay their fees. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Lloyds had caused a 
delay of around three months and recommended it pay £300 to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. However he said as Lloyds hadnt had the opportunity to consider 
Mr Ts complaint about the loss assessor fees, he wouldnt be able to consider that part until 
it had.
Lloyds didnt agree as it said it thought the delay was around 6 weeks and the 
compensation wasnt warranted. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T suffered a considerable flood to his property, and claims of this nature will often take a 
number of months to resolve. However Mr T has said that Lloyds caused additional 
unnecessary delays. I need to decide if Lloyds caused delays that could have been avoided 
and if it has, how it should put things right.
It's of note that Mr T has also complained that Lloyds has declined to pay the fees of the 
loss assessor he appointed to help with the claim. However this isnt a complaint Lloyds has 
yet had a chance to address, so I wont consider this as part of this complaint. Should Mr T 
be unhappy with Lloyds response once it has addressed this, he will then be able to bring it 
to this service for consideration. 
Ive considered the timeline of the claim and I can see there has been a number of times 
when agreement hasnt been reached. And this has necessitated further conversation and 
inspections to agree on a scope of works. This isnt uncommon in a claim and there were 
times when Lloyds responded proactively to try and move the claim forward towards an 
agreed settlement. 
However I agree with our investigator that there have been delays that could have been 
avoided. Ive identified two main areas that caused delays that I have addressed below.
The flooring
Mr T says that the flooring was first discussed in August 2020 and that it was agreed it would 
need to be uplifted. However following this visit Lloyds continued to dispute this point, 
asking for additional confirmation from building control and saying it wasnt included in the 
claim settlement. Lloyds didnt go on to confirm that it would be covered until April 2021. 
I understand Lloyds has disputed that the floor was agreed in the August visit. And it isnt 
possible for me to know exactly what was agreed. However Mr T sent an email after the visit 
that summarised what was discussed. And in this he confirmed agreement that the floor 
would need to be lifted. As this was sent on the evening of the visit it seems likely that this is 
a reliable account of the discussion. And in the absence of evidence to the contrary Im 
persuaded this was agreed at this point. I therefore agree with our investigator that the delay 
in reaffirming this agreement caused an unnecessary overall delay to the claim.
Settlement amount
Over the months between June 2020 and May 2021 when agreement was reached on the 
settlement amount, the claim value has increased by over £200,000. While it isnt unusual 
for there to be some change to a settlement as the matter is investigated and negotiated by 
both sides, this is a huge increase in amount. And in this time Mr T has instructed a third 
party to help settle the claim who has entered into a large amount of correspondence, 
scopes and discussion around the required amount. This is beyond what Id expect for a 
claim of this nature and as Lloyds has now offered a revised settlement of around £239,000, 
it seems it accepts that its original offers were far below what was required. While I accept 
there are issues that have arisen that may not have been foreseeable, at the point of the 
initial offer of around £36,000 it had carried out two video inspections and one in person. So 
I think this would have been enough for it to have given a reasonable estimate. And this has 
caused Mr Ts representative to enter into far more correspondence than should have been 
necessary, which has meant the claim has taken longer to settle.
For these reasons I agree that Lloyds has delayed the claim unnecessarily. Both by not 
reaching a resolution on the flooring earlier and by offering a settlement much lower than 
what was required in the initial scope. While I dont think it is possible to calculate the exact 
amount of time that these actions have delayed the claim by, I think it is likely to have added 
around three months. Based on this I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should pay Mr T £300 compensation to make up for the delay it has caused, as this is in line with our 
approach to other cases of a similar nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Society of Lloyd's to pay 
him £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman