DRN-3409645
Complaint
Ms P says that London Capital Credit Union Limited (London Capital) unfairly reported 
adverse information regarding her loan to credit reference agencies.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps concerns. She didnt think that London Capital 
had done anything wrong or treated Ms P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Ms P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ms P has said that she was struggling between 2017 and 2019 and that she notified London 
Capital of this. Weve been provided with the notes London Capital has of the contact 
between it and Ms P during the course of her loan. And its clear that shes had arrears on 
her loan with London Capital for some time. Its also fair to say that Ms P has had extensive 
discussions with London Capital since the arrears began and in particular there are 
discussions documented with the individual Ms P has named. 
Its important to note that once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulty its fair and reasonable to expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration in 
accordance with generally accepted standards. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a 
borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate 
way to move forward. Having considered the content of the notes, its clear that there have 
been a number of attempts to set up payment plans with Ms P. But it looks like Ms P hasnt 
been able to get her account back on track or clear the arrears that have accrued. 
I know that Ms P has said that she had a repayment arrangement with London Capital, that 
its unfair for it to have recorded adverse late payment information to credit reference 
agencies and that she feels misled. However, there isnt any record of the agreement being 
varied in the notes and Ms P hasnt been able to supply any documentation indicating that a 
formal arrangement to pay, or variation of the loan, was in place either. 
Indeed, its unlikely that it would have even been possible to vary Ms Ps loan in the way she 
suggests she was told it would either. Such an arrangement would have required a rewrite of 
the loan and entering into a new agreement in the same way that Ms P did in March 2017. I 
can see that Ms P did apply for a further advance in 2019  shortly before her direct debit 
was cancelled. But this application for further funds was declined.
Its also worth noting that Ms P acknowledges only making token payments for at least part 
of the time. And token payments wont normally be part of any formal repayment plan as the 
amount will never be anywhere near enough to reduce the amount owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
I do sympathise with what Ms P has told us. I fully appreciate shes gone through a difficult 
period of time over the past few years, understand why shes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on her credit file and worried about the impact this had and will 
have going forward. But I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for 
London Capital to continue ignoring the arrears on the account. And I would have expected 
London Capital to have recorded the payments it and didnt receive in the way that it did.
After all, while recording adverse information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it 
does offer the borrower certain protections in relation to the debt concerned. And asking 
London Capital to remove the adverse information recorded, when Ms P didnt repay this 
debt in line with the initial arrangements and was and is in arrears, would make her 
repayment record look far better that it was. In my view, this would arguably be 
counterproductive and not in Ms Ps interests or that of any future lender deciding to lend on 
the basis of such corrected information.
Overall, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that London Capital took reasonable 
steps to arrange payment plans with Ms P. So Im satisfied that it attempted to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration in the way I would expect. And as London Capital wasnt 
able to resolve the arrears with Ms P, Im satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to record 
information that reflected the payments it did and didnt receive from Ms P to credit reference 
agencies in the way that it did. So I dont think that London Capital acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to this matter. 
I now turn to what Ms P has said about London Capitals staff being rude. 
I know Ms P is unhappy with the conversations she had with London Capital. In particular, 
she said that she felt a particular staff members tone made her uncomfortable. Weve 
already explained that London Capital has told us it doesnt have any recordings of the 
telephone calls it had with Ms P, as it doesnt record its conversations with customers. I 
know that Ms P finds this surprising. But it isnt mandatory for a financial firm to record all 
conversations. And, in these circumstances, I cant say London Capital has failed to provide 
something that it ought to have done.
Furthermore, given Ms P has commented on the tone of a particular member of staff and 
how this made her feel, I cant really form a view on this matter without being able to listen to 
a recording of the call. I say this while especially mindful that London Capital has also 
suggested it wasnt happy with Ms Ps conduct on calls either. Given the lack of anything to 
verify the parties version of events and Im mindful that any discussions will always feel 
more heated when in the midst of them, I simply dont have enough here to be able to 
uphold this part of Ms Ps complaint either.  
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Ms Ps 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms P. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman