DRN-2159341
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited gave him incorrect information 
about bonuses due on his endowment policy, which he relied on to his detriment. 
 
What happened
Mr G had an endowment policy with Aviva which he was using towards the repayment of his 
mortgage. The policy was set up to achieve £44,920. Over the past few years Mr G has 
been sent high risk warning letters explaining his policy was at high risk of falling short at 
maturity.  
In October 2017, Mr G called Aviva for a surrender value. He was given the surrender value 
of £34,351. During the call Mr G asked if the policy value ramped up in the last 4-5 years. He 
was told the value was dependent on the market value at the time. He was also told that 
when the policy neared maturity, the fund switched to a lower risk fund so it shouldnt lose 
value. 
Mr G called again in December 2017 for a surrender value. This was given as £31,603. He 
queried how long it would take to surrender and told the call handler he didnt want to 
surrender the policy but might have to, to fund a court case. 
In September 2018, Mr G called Aviva for a surrender value. The value given was just over 
£36,000. Mr G queried the maturity process, asking if the policy just paid out or whether it 
could be extended. The call handler explained it couldnt be extended. They also explained 
that if Mr G waited until the end of the policy, terminal bonus figures would be calculated. 
Mr G called for a surrender value in March 2019. He was told it was £35,699. He was 
advised to seek financial advice if he was thinking of surrendering the policy. Mr G checked 
that bonuses were due in the next few months, and this was confirmed by the call handler. 
In June 2019, Mr G was coming to the end of his fixed rate period for his repayment 
mortgage. He had been paying lump sums off his mortgage to reduce it from £100,000 to 
just over £41,000 (at the time of re-mortgage). The terms and conditions of the mortgage 
allowed unlimited overpayments and redemption of the mortgage penalty free. Mr G 
arranged a new fixed rate mortgage for just over £41,000 to start in October 2019. 
In September 2019, Mr G contacted Aviva wanting to know when the expected bonuses 
would be added. It was at this point Mr G was told his policy didnt attract bonuses. Mr G 
complained that hed been given incorrect information about his policy which he had relied 
on to his detriment. He complained hed been led to believe his policy attracted bonuses for 
several years and had he known earlier that it didnt, he would have surrendered sooner and 
paid a lump sum off his mortgage, thereby reducing his mortgage costs. He also says he 
wouldnt have re-mortgaged which cost him £499 in fees. 
Aviva upheld Mr Gs complaint. It agreed it had provided him incorrect information and 
offered £150 for its error. It didnt offer compensation for any of the financial losses Mr G 
said he had suffered. 
Our investigator concluded Aviva had fairly resolved the complaint. She was satisfied the 
£150 was compensation for the error. She was persuaded Mr G ought to have known his 
policy didnt attract bonuses as this wasnt in the original policy literature or in his annual 
statements. And although he had been told his policy attracted bonuses in 2018 and 2019, 
he hadnt been given any guarantees as to the amount. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He remained of the view he had lost 
around £7,000 in mortgage repayments, premiums and the fee for the new mortgage. He 
said he would have surrendered his policy far sooner had he been given correct information 
over the past 2-3 years and reduced his mortgage borrowing. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 July 2020 explaining why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I didnt think Aviva had considered the financial loss Mr G had incurred in relation 
to his mortgage costs. I compared the premium and mortgage repayments with the 
surrender values and believed Mr G had suffered a financial loss of around £580. Mr G 
accepted the outcome, but Aviva didnt. It said I had included the capital element in my 
calculation as a loss, and I shouldnt have done, as this was always payable by Mr G.   
I considered its argument and agreed I shouldnt have included this element within my 
calculation. I therefore carried out a new calculation that showed Mr G hadnt suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the wrong information. I therefore explained to Mr G that I was no 
longer minded to ask Aviva to pay anything over and above the £150 it had already offered. 
A copy of this was also sent to Aviva. 
Mr G is extremely unhappy with Aviva. He considers Aviva is going unpunished for it lying to 
him for over three years and believes this office has failed to protect him as the consumer. 
He also considers Aviva didnt like my provisional decision, it has muddied the waters and its 
clear they have no respect for the ombudsman. He is considering pursuing this matter 
elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to explain to Mr G that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to 
resolve financial disputes. We are not a consumer champion and we do not carry out a 
consumer protection role. Nor is it my role to punish businesses. My role is to decide the 
complaint before me  and if I decide the business has done something wrong, what needs 
to happen to put that right. That includes making an award for any financial losses that stem 
from the wrong doing or making an award should the wrong doing have caused any distress 
and/or inconvenience. 
It isnt in dispute that Aviva gave Mr G wrong information. It has already admitted that. So my 
consideration here is whether Aviva has done enough to put that right  whether the wrong 
information caused him a financial loss, and whether he was caused any distress and/or 
inconvenience as a result of that.
Although Aviva had offered Mr G £150, it didnt appear that it had given any consideration to 
whether Mr G had relied on its incorrect information to his detriment. I accepted Mr G may 
have been given policy literature when taking out the policy. But I didnt think anyone would 
recall that during telephone conversations many years later or had necessarily retained it. I 
also considered the annual statements, which I accepted didnt mention bonuses. But I didnt 
think that meant, or Mr G understood that to mean, the policy didnt attract bonuses such that he ought to have known hed been given incorrect information. 
As Mr G pointed out, he called Aviva for information about his policy and he was reasonably 
entitled to expect Avivas call handlers to provide him with accurate information about it. And 
whilst I didnt agree that he was told he should keep it, he was nevertheless incorrectly led to 
believe his policy attracted bonuses towards the end. As Aviva knows, where something has 
gone wrong, we expect it to put the customer in the position they would have been in had 
everything gone as it should have. It seemed to me that should fairly include the position 
with the mortgage as well as Mr Gs policy.
Mr G said he had been given incorrect information over the last 2-3 years which had cost 
him around £7,000. But I didnt agree with that. I had listened to calls from 2017, and he 
hadnt been given incorrect information during those calls; and it was clear he had no desire 
to surrender his policy. I remain of the view it isnt fair to calculate any possible financial loss 
from 2017, and Mr G hasnt provided anything in response to my provisional decision that 
would cause me to change that finding.  
I accepted Mr G had been given incorrect information in September 2018 as reference had 
been made to a terminal bonus calculation. But I wasnt persuaded Mr G would have 
surrendered his policy then, because in that same call Mr G made enquires about extending 
the policy once it reached maturity. I wasnt persuaded the enquiries were indicative of 
someone looking to surrender their policy; particularly as the enquiries were made before the 
incorrect information was given. Mr G hasnt provided any further arguments for me to 
consider, or that have caused me to change my finding that any calculation shouldnt be run 
from this date.
In March 2019, Mr G was nearing the end of his fixed rate period for this then mortgage. And 
he had been given incorrect information during a call. Although it was Mr G that suggested 
bonuses were going to be added in the final months, Avivas call handler didnt correct that. 
So it omitted to correct Mr Gs understanding of how his policys value was going to be 
calculated. 
Mr G had been paying lump sums off his mortgage such that his balance was just over 
£41,600 in March 2019. And during the call he was clearly concerned that the value of his 
policy had dropped since the last call. Mr G was left with an expectation that bonuses would 
be added, even if the amount was unknown. I remain satisfied that but for the omission in 
the call, Mr G would likely have surrendered his policy very soon after, had his 
understanding been corrected. I remain persuaded by his testimony that he wouldnt have 
continued paying premiums into the policy and would likely have redeemed his mortgage.  
The next step is to decide whether Mr G has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
incorrect information he was given. I find it fair that Aviva take into account the increase in 
surrender values between May and October 2019, when it was eventually surrendered. As 
the call took place after Mr G had already made his mortgage payment for March 2019, Im 
satisfied any calculation should run from April 2019. I also remain satisfied Mr G wouldnt 
have applied for a new mortgage in June 2019 (to start in October 2019) as he would likely 
have redeemed his mortgage. He therefore wouldnt have incurred an arrangement fee of 
£499. 
I calculate that Mr G hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the incorrect information. In 
fact, the calculation shows that Mr G has actually benefitted financially. Mr Gs monthly 
mortgage repayments were £242.26.  But just under £60 of this was interest, the remainder 
capital. Mr G would have needed to pay the capital in any event, whether that was in March 
or on a monthly basis in his repayments, so I no longer include any capital in the calculation:Mr Gs monthly mortgage interest total = £347.95
Mr Gs endowment premiums = £544.20
The new mortgage arrangement fee = £499
Total loss of = £1,391.15
Less the difference in surrender values
March 2019    £35,699.87
October 2019 £37,609.91 = £1,910.04 gain
Total = £518.89 gain
As can been seen, Mr G is better off financially by over £500 as a result of the incorrect 
information. He hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments to show this calculation is 
incorrect or that he has suffered a financial loss. I therefore no longer make an award 
against Aviva as Mr G hasnt suffered a financial loss. 
It is accepted by the parties that Mr G has been inconvenienced as a result of the incorrect 
information. And it is right that he is compensated for the impact that has had  being put to 
the time and trouble of finding out what happened and whether he had suffered a loss. In all 
the circumstances, I find the offer of £150 already made by Aviva to be a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience Mr G was put to.     
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva life and Pensions UK Limited has already fairly resolved this 
complaint. I require it to pay Mr G £150 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman