DRN-3263536
The complaint
Ms G and Mr T complain about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
(RSA) when they made a claim under their home emergency insurance policy.
All references to RSA include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In April 2021 Ms G and Mr T called RSA because their shower wouldnt turn off.
An engineer attended and stopped the shower running. But a few hours later, water 
started coming through the ceiling. 
RSA said it couldnt provide an engineer until the next day. So, Ms G and Mr T called 
a third-party engineer. They said the previous engineer had isolated the cold water 
feed but left the hot water feed still active. This had caused the pump to leak and 
caused damage to the house. 
Ms G and Mr T complained. They said the leak had caused damage to the bedroom 
and kitchen ceilings, to a wardrobe and to the carpets.
RSA issued its final response to the complaint in June 2021. It didnt think it could 
hold its engineer responsible for the leak as theyd resolved the immediate issue and 
it said it was an unfortunate set of circumstances that meant the hot water feed had 
started leaking after theyd left. 
But RSA said it should have arranged for another engineer to attend within four hours 
of the second call and that would likely have prevented some of the damage. So, it 
agreed to pay for the repairs to the water damage. It said its contractor would contact 
Ms G and Mr T directly to discuss this with them. 
RSA also reimbursed Ms G and Mr T for the amount theyd paid the third-party 
engineer and paid them £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused them.
Ms G and Mr T contacted RSA a week later to say they hadnt heard from RSAs 
contractor about the repairs. They then approached this service.
Our investigator thought RSA should either chase its contractor to settle the matter or 
pay the cost of the damages direct. He also thought RSA should pay Ms G and Mr T 
another £100 for the delay in resolving matters. 
Ms G and Mr T agreed with our investigators view but RSA didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reasons for my decision are as follows:
I dont think theres any need for me to consider whether RSAs engineer caused the 
damage to Ms G and Mr Ts home. RSA accepted it could have done more at the 
time and it agreed to reimburse them for the cost of using a third-party engineer to 
resolve the issue. It also agreed to pay them £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Those amounts have been paid.
RSA also agreed to pay for the cost of the repairs to the areas of Ms G and Mr Ts 
home that were damaged by the water leak. But, for whatever reason, that hasnt 
happened and its contractor hasnt contacted them as expected. 
As RSA committed to paying to repair the damage caused by the water leak, I think 
its fair and reasonable to expect them to do that. 
Putting things right
Ms G and Mr T provided a quote for £330 to repair the main bedroom ceiling. Having 
seen that quote I think thats a reasonable amount to pay for the work that needs 
doing. 
They said theyve now redecorated the kitchen ceiling themselves due to the time 
taken to resolve matters. And theyve had the bedroom carpet professionally cleaned 
as well. Ms G and Mr T suggested RSA pay them £150 to contribute towards those 
costs and, again, I think thats a reasonable amount to pay for the work that needed 
doing. 
Ms G and Mr T also said that a panel on their wardrobe had been damaged by the 
water. They tried to replace the panel but that hasnt been possible. They asked a 
carpenter to look at it but they said the whole unit would need to be dismantled. Ms G 
and Mr T understand it wouldnt be fair to put them in a better position than they 
would otherwise have been due to RSAs actions. So instead of paying the full cost of 
a replacement wardrobe, which they said would be £2,200, theyve suggested RSA 
contribute £600 towards that cost. And, in the circumstances, I think thats a fair and 
reasonable suggestion.  
So, in total I think RSA should pay Ms G and Mr T a total of £1,080 to reimburse 
them for the costs of repairing the damage caused by the water leak.
I also think RSA should recognise the impact of the delay in resolving this matter. Its 
already paid Ms G and Mr T £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor service at the time of the incident. But I think it should also pay another £100 for 
the delay in putting things right.
My final decision
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance should pay Ms G and Mr T the following:
£1,080 for the costs involved in repairing the damage caused by the water leak. 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in resolving this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman