The complaint
Ms C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit facility and 13 instalment loans Sunny provided to 
Ms C between August 2014 and January 2019. Ms C drew against the running credit loan 10 
times and repaid her loans on time and in full. 
Seven months later, Ms C borrowed loan 2, an instalment loan for £200. She continued to 
borrow amounts between £100 and £300 over the next three years. These loans were to be 
repaid in 14 monthly instalments. Ms C often borrowed again whilst a previous loan was still 
running so that she had to repay more than one instalment a month. From what Ms C has 
told us, she has now repaid all her loans.  
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Cs complaint in part and thought loans 2, 3 and from 7 to 14 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed. It offered redress for loans 2, 3 and 12 to 14. 
But Ms C was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-1652837the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
From what I can see, Sunny ensured that Ms C used the running credit facility as it was 
intended. This is because Ms C reduced her balance owing to zero at the end of each 
month. She took 10 drawdowns in 4 months but didnt reach her credit limit. I cant see that 
there were any signs in the way Ms C used the account that should have alerted Sunny to 
any likely financial difficulties. So I cant say that Sunny was wrong to have provided this 
loan. 
There was a seven month gap between the repayment of loan 1 and Ms C taking out loan 2 
and I think this was significant. So I think it was reasonable for Sunny to have treated loan 2 
as the start of a new chain of borrowing and carry out the affordability checks that were 
appropriate. 
For loans 2 to 14, Sunny asked Ms C for her income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Ms C said her monthly income was £1,360 for loan 2 and £1,220 thereafter. She 
said her expenditure was £1,267 for loan 2, £1,132 for loan 3 and then £823 for loan 4. 
As our adjudicator explained, these checks showed that for loans 2 and 3 Ms C wouldnt 
have enough disposable income left after repaying her instalments to Sunny to allow for any 
unexpected events. So I think Sunny was wrong to have provided loans 2 and 3. 
I think Sunny should have made better checks from loan 4 onwards. Ms Cs reported 
outgoings had dropped substantially. Loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable. And so I think Sunny 
should then have verified what Ms C had told it and closely examined her finances to ensure 
that she could sustainably repay her loans. But as I dont have enough information to see 
what better checks would have found, I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided loans 4 
to 6.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
 
This was Ms Cs sixth loan in this chain in 20 months and the amounts borrowed 
stayed roughly the same. So I think the overall pattern of borrowing showed that Ms 
C was persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
From loan 7 onwards Ms C was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one, or whilst it was still running. So Sunny ought to have realised 
it was more likely than not Ms C was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms Cs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Ms C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 14 was 
taken out 43 months after Ms Cs first in this chain. And it was for the same amount. 
Ms C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
 
I think that Ms C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 2, 3, and 7 to 14 and I think Sunny should put 
things right.
 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms C, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Ms C paid on loans 2,3, and 7 to 14;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 and 3 from Ms Cs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 14 should be removed from Ms 
Cs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Cs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Ms C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman