DRN-1631031
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains about how Tradewise Insurance Company Limited handled 
a claim made on its commercial motor insurance policy. This complaint is brought on Ss 
behalf by its director, Mr B. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim on Ss policy. Mr B was 
unhappy that Tradewise reduced his cover to third party only because of cosmetic 
modifications on the car. Hes also unhappy that a total loss was recorded as no claim was 
paid and with the valuations that led to this decision. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy didnt provide full cover for vehicles that were cosmetically modified. She thought Mr B 
hadnt declared the modifications when the policy was taken out. And so she thought 
Tradewise hadnt acted unreasonably by reducing the cover to third party only.
She thought Ss policy provided for the trade value in the case of total loss. And she thought 
that if even if the retail value had been used and Mr Bs engineers estimate of the repair 
costs considered, the car would have been uneconomical to repair and so declared a total 
loss. She also thought that Tradewise was obliged to record the cars total loss. 
Mr B replied that Tradewises estimator had inflated the repair costs by £8,000. He said the 
car didnt have performance modifications, but replacement parts and factory fitted items. He 
thought Tradewise should have done more to seek costs from a government agency which 
he thought was responsible for the accident. He also thought Tradewise should have 
returned his car to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B thinks that the policy he bought may not have been suitable for his 
business or for his private car. But, as the investigator has explained, the sale of the policy 
was made through a broker and Mr B should direct any concerns about a potential mis-sale 
to it. I cant consider these points here. 
I can, however, consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
I can see that Ss policy states that cover is restricted to third party only for customised, 
modified or supercharged vehicles. Mr B had answered no when taking out the policy 
when he was asked if he handled any of these. I can see that this is stated on the policys 
Statement of Fact where Mr B was also told that third party only cover would apply for 
modified cars.
Tradewise said it had initially thought to decline the claim because it thought Mr Bs car had 
been modified. But it was persuaded that the modifications werent performance related. And 
so it applied the third party only restriction. 
Mr B thought the modifications listed shouldnt be considered as modifications by Tradewise. 
The modifications listed were: tinted windows, side window deflectors, tinted rear lamps, 
number plates were show plates, non standard manufacturer fit rear bumper diffuser, non 
standard fit alloy wheels. Tradewise considered these as modifications.
We think that modifications are any change to a cars appearance or performance after it 
leaves the factory. Mr B said the tinted windows were factory fitted, so they would not meet 
our definition as a modification. But I cant see that hes shown that the remaining items were 
factory fitted. So I think it was reasonable for Tradewise to consider them as cosmetic 
modifications and so, under the policys terms and conditions, provide third party cover only.  
Mr B disagreed that a total loss should be recorded. He was unhappy with the valuation that 
led to this and the estimate of the repair costs. The investigator has explained this services 
approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Ss policy provides for the cars trade rather than retail valuation in the case of 
its total loss. Tradewise said this was assessed by its engineer as £12,440. Our investigator 
thought Tradewises valuation of the car was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how she 
came to this decision.
I can see that the investigator obtained valuations from the motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs at the time of its loss. 
The highest valuation provided by the guides was in keeping with what Tradewise 
calculated. So I think the valuation was made correctly according to our approach and the 
policy terms and conditions. So I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr B was also unhappy with Tradewises estimate of the costs of repairs to his car. Were 
not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
I can see that Tradewise relied on an approved garages estimate of the repair costs. This 
was reviewed by its in-house engineer. The total was about £20,000. Mr B thought this was 
inflated, so I think Tradewise reasonably invited him to provide his own estimate for 
consideration. This costed the repairs at about £10,000. Tradewises engineer reviewed this 
and pointed out items that hadnt been included. So Tradewise maintained its position. 
I think Tradewise reasonably considered the evidence available and justified its position on 
repairs. The repair costs compared with the trade valuation made the car uneconomical to 
repair. And so Tradewise declared it a category N total loss. 
Tradewise also considered the cars retail value compared to the estimate for repairs Mr B 
provided to see if this made a difference. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But this still left the car as beyond its threshold for economical repair. And so 
I think it reasonably maintained its position that the car was a category N total loss.   
Mr B said he had his car repaired and its back on the road. But hes unhappy with the total 
loss marker. But, as our investigator has explained, Tradewise is obliged to record this 
correctly. And even though Mr B wanted to withdraw his claim it was still obliged to record it 
following its assessment. So I cant say that Tradewise did anything wrong in recording the 
cars total loss category. 
Mr B thought it was poor service that Tradewise asked him to collect his car a day before he 
was going on holiday. Whilst I think this would have been good service, I cant say that 
Tradewise needed to do this as it hadnt dealt with Mr Bs claim for his own car under the 
policy. From what I can see, I dont think Tradewise had any third party losses to pay. So it 
had no reason to seek recovery from the highways agency.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman