DRN-3552771
The complaint
Mr S complains that IG Markets Limited prevented him from taking up a share alternative 
following an enhanced scrip dividend announcement. 
What happened
Mr S has a share dealing account with IG Markets. He has a holding of shares in a company 
I will call H. In November 2020, H announced an enhanced scrip dividend. Mr S contacted 
IG Markets and specifically asked to take up the alternative offer, as the enhanced scrip 
dividend was worth ten times more than the cash dividend.
IG Markets said it wasnt able to process any scrip dividends and so Mr S couldnt take up 
the alternative offer. Mr S complained. IG Markets offered Mr S £300 for the frustration but 
explained that it couldnt process the enhanced scrip dividend option on its platform so Mr S 
couldnt take this alternative share offer.
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said that he received 
the cash dividend which was worth significantly less. Hes lost out on around £1,314 as this 
would be the difference between what he got, and what his new shares wouldve been 
worth. Mr S, in his correspondence said hed either like the shares or the difference.
Our Investigator upheld this complaint. They explained that the terms of Mr Ss account 
mention that IG Markets may offer scrip dividends and it doesnt say, at any point, that it 
cant do that. They said that its likely Mr S wouldve held his shares elsewhere had this been 
clear and so, as it cant facilitate the enhanced scrip dividend, it should compensate Mr S for 
the financial loss hes experienced as a result. The Investigator felt the £300 compensation 
for the frustration was fair and reasonable.
IG Markets responded to say that it didnt think it was fair to be penalised for something it 
couldnt offer. It asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
H announced an enhanced scrip dividend. This was worth ten times more than the cash 
dividend so it was understandable that Mr S wanted to elect to take this offer. IG Markets 
has said it cannot process scrip dividends. I can understand this, and its not my place to tell 
IG Markets what it should and shouldnt offer. However, if it cant do something, it should 
make that clear to its customers.
IG Markets terms and conditions say:
We are not obliged to but we may offer you any dividend reinvestment plans
available or any scrip option or stock dividend offered for Instruments that we hold
on your behalf. However, any such decision will not take account of your personal
tax position. Generally you will receive the cash default option.
From this I can see IG Markets isnt obliged to offer Mr S the enhanced scrip dividend. But it 
doesnt say anywhere that it cannot offer it. I think this wouldve been a key consideration to 
Mr S choosing a share dealing account. Enhanced scrip dividends are often worth 
significantly more than cash dividends, and whilst they may be rare, I think its important that 
Mr S knew this couldnt have been an option with this account. But the terms dont give this 
impression.
Its also important to note that Mr S could reasonably expect IG Markets, as nominee of his 
shares, to have acted in his best interests. So, if it was able to offer scrip dividends, Id have 
expected it to have thought about Mr Ss request to take the enhanced scrip dividend as it 
was worth so much more to him and was clearly in his best interests. So, by not making it 
clear that this was not an option in its terms, I dont think its treated Mr S fairly. I think its 
likely Mr S wouldve held his shares elsewhere if there was no option to take part in 
corporate actions which would leave him potentially far better off. So, I think IG Markets 
needs to compensate Mr S for the loss hes incurred as a result.
IG Markets did acknowledge that Mr S was left frustrated by the issue and offered him £300 
compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset it caused.
Putting things right
Ordinarily Id suggest putting Mr S in the position hed have been in had he been able to 
elect the enhanced scrip dividend. However, Mr S has said, to settle the complaint, hed 
accept the difference in value of the cash dividend and the enhanced scrip dividend rather 
than adjusting his shareholding. As such I direct IG Markets Limited to do the following:
- Pay Mr S the difference between the value of the cash dividend and the value of the 
enhanced scrip dividend had he taken it in relation to all of his shares he held in 
November 2020.
- If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr S the £300 compensation it offered for the trouble 
and upset it caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. IG Markets Limited must follow the 
instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman