DRN-2298017
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the amount shes been paying for her home insurance policy over the 
years. The insurance policy is with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
Mrs C has been assisted in her complaint by her representative. But Ill generally reference 
her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs Cs home insurance policy with Lloyds started in January 2009. It initially cost £170.19 a 
year. 
Mrs C says she didnt engage with the cost of the insurance at renewal from 2009 until 2019 
and the policys cost slowly increased over the years. In 2019, Mrs Cs annual premium had 
gone up to £514.33.
Mrs C said she was unhappy that the policy cost had gone up so much. She shopped 
around in 2019 (for cover beginning on 1 January 2020) to get alternative insurance with a 
different provider for around £80 a year.
Because of this, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. After raising her complaint with 
us, she complained to her bank through which her insurance with Lloyds had been arranged. 
She felt shed been treated unfairly and had been overcharged for many years.
Lloyds reviewed Mrs Cs concerns. It upheld her complaint and made the following offer to 
try to resolve it: a payment totalling £103.31, made up of:
a refund of £44.13 in premiums paid. They also said theyd add simple interest at 8% 
per year on this amount (£9.18) 
£50 compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs C went through in trying to get her 
complaint sorted out
Our investigator felt that this offer was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. Mrs C 
didnt agree and so her case has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Lloyds has made an offer to try to resolve the 
complaint and I believe the offer is fair and reasonable taking all the circumstances into 
account. Ill explain why. 
I cant tell Lloyds what price it needed to charge Mrs C for her home insurance. Thats for it 
to decide, based in part on the risk of Mrs C needing to make a claim and its wider 
commercial requirements. 
But it may help for me to explain a little about the way Lloyds priced its policies. It provided 
new customers with discounts as a way of being competitive. Then it gradually increased the 
price to bring the policy up to what it felt was the right price, given its view of risk and needs 
as a business to make a profit. Theres nothing wrong with this practice and other insurers 
do this too. 
However, we feel that where theres a lack of engagement from a consumer there may be a 
point where the price increases start to become unfair, given what other prices mightve 
been available to them if theyd shopped around.
Following our investigators investigation of the complaint, Lloyds offered to pay Mrs C a total 
of £103.31. This amount was made up of a partial refund of her premiums from 2014, some 
interest and some compensation for any upset caused. 
In Mrs Cs case, the refund part of Lloyds offer represents a refund of amounts paid above 
the target price from 2014 onwards. I think its likely that at that point Lloyds ought to have 
realised Mrs C was unlikely to contact it about her policy price, so thats where it was 
possible for things to start to become unfair. 
So the refund offered by Lloyds is for the amount charged over and above its target price 
since 2014. Lloyds has told us how its target pricing model applies to Mrs Cs policy. The 
target pricing model demonstrates whether Lloyds treated Mrs C fairly. It allows us to see 
whether what she was charged was in line with how its said it treats all of its policyholders  
regardless of whether they engage with it. Im afraid I cant share the detail of its model with 
Mrs C as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds business. This means its confidential. But I 
hope it reassures Mrs C to know Ive checked what shes paid. And Im satisfied that Lloyds 
has calculated the refund correctly.
In deciding what fair compensation should be, Ive considered Mrs Cs premium history and 
her personal circumstances. Having carefully considered the offer made, I think that it 
represents fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Its difficult to work out what saving a consumer wouldve made over the years. Just because 
a consumer has recently identified a much cheaper policy, doesnt mean thats the price they 
wouldve paid over the intervening period. Insurers are entitled to reassess the risks they are 
presented with at renewal and set the price accordingly. 
I know that not everyone has relatives who can help them. And that some customers might 
not realise what theyve got to do to get a competitive price. And not everyone will know that 
loyalty isnt always rewarded in the way they would expect.
But the wider picture isnt for me to comment on in this decision, as Im only considering Mrs 
Cs circumstances. But, as Mrs C representative has pointed out, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, the industry regulator, has been looking into matters like those brought up in this 
complaint. And has set out proposals to help deliver fair value to all insurance customers.
Returning to the compensation offered by Lloyds, I know that Mrs C thought she should 
receive around £2,560 as a refund but I cant agree. From the data I have, Mrs Cs policy 
was on risk for 11 years during which time she paid Lloyds a total amount of approximately 
£3,400. So I cant agree that such a large proportion of that amount should, in all fairness, be 
refunded. She had the cover for that period and if shed needed to claim, Lloyds wouldve 
needed to consider her loss. Lloyds has offered £103.31 compensation to Mrs C. I consider that to be fair and consistent 
with the award that I wouldve made if Lloyds hadnt already made the offer. And I dont 
require them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman