DRN-4238420
The complaint
Mrs E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont reimburse the money she says
she lost to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Mrs E made a series of payments
from her NatWest account. At the time she believed she was settling invoices from a building
firm N. Shed contracted with N (who had been recommended to her by an architect) to do
work at her home. The payments were made between May and July 2021 and totalled
around £66,500 and were paid to an account in the name of Ns director. Between July and
August 2021 further payments totalling around £50,000 were also sent from Mr Es (Mrs Es
husband) account with another bank.
In October 2021 Mrs E concluded shed been the victim of a scam  she reported this to
NatWest and the police. Ultimately NatWest said they were unable to recover or return any
funds, they considered it to be a civil dispute between Mrs E and N. Mrs E complained and
when NatWest maintained their position, she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she thought the
conclusion NatWest had reached was reasonable. Mrs E disagreed and asked for an
Ombudsman to review her complaint.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as
Im providing some additional reasoning, Im issuing this provisional decision to give
everyone a further opportunity to comment. Im also aware of a linked complaint that Mr E
has against another bank. But this decision is solely in relation to NatWests actions.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs E authorised the payments that left her account. But she alleges
that she has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that Ns intent
from the start was to deceive her.
NatWest are also a signatory to the voluntary CRM Code. This is a scheme through which
victims of APP fraud can sometimes receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But the
CRM code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly, when concluding that this amounted to a
civil dispute and not a scam. Im intending to find that they did, and Ill explain why.
Whilst I can quite understand why Mrs E feels that N has scammed her, there is a high legal
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). And there are a
number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship between
two parties and for a dispute to exist.
Of particular relevance to this are the pictures that Mrs E has provided. These show building
work in progress. Parts of walls have been knocked through and I can see that some blocks
have been laid. There also appears to be a trench dug (presumably for foundations). I
acknowledge Mrs E says the work was done poorly or incorrectly, but that isnt, in itself,
evidence of this being a scam. There is also some evidence of materials and a skip having
been delivered to the site as well as an excavator.
Im also mindful that N are a limited company, registered on Companies House and that
invoices which included reasons for each payment were provided. I also understand there
was a contract drawn up for the works and that the quote received by Mrs E was in line with
similar quotes received. Often, where the intention is to be dishonest from the start, then a
quote will be very competitive to secure the work.
The payments which include those made from Mr Es account, took place between May and
August 2021 (around three and a half months in total). Mrs E says she had to make
payments for materials due to extended lead times as a result of Brexit and Covid. And they
continued to do so as they didnt want to delay progress. She says that when N was
challenged about the whereabouts of those materials, she was told these were stored in a
lock up to prevent theft. Whilst these do seem like plausible reasons for delays, there was
presumably enough work done to reassure Mrs E sufficiently to make further payments.
Mrs E told NatWest that N had been recommended by a legitimate architect who had
vouched for the builder. Further to this, NatWests investigation notes also record that Mr E
had said on Mrs Es behalf the building inspector advises that the builder has completed
some jobs, and nearly finished others, and he cannot understand why this happened to this
job. This doesnt support that N were operating a scam, rather that something seems to
have gone wrong and that this was a private civil dispute between Mr and Mrs E and N.
Ultimately there is insufficient evidence to persuade me that the conclusion NatWest
reached was unfair or unreasonable. I appreciate that the police are investigating the
director of N and there are said to be other customers of N who are in a similar position. But
based on all the information Ive seen to date, I dont think NatWests decision to treat this as
a civil dispute was unfair or unreasonable. Its entirely possible that N had overcommitted in
the work theyd taken on and had been unable to complete all the work theyd agreed. And
whilst this would clearly be unacceptable to Mrs E, this doesnt mean that it meets the bar to
be considered a scam where its required for the intention to have been to deceive from the
start.
Mrs E has said that she thinks NatWest failed to intervene in the payments at the times they
were made and to provide suitable warnings. But given that Im currently supportive of
NatWests decision to conclude this is a civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which they
ought to have intervened in the payments. NatWest have obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams, but there is no obligation for them to intervene in authorised payments unless there
is a fraud, scam or the misappropriation of funds. So, I cant fairly criticise NatWest for not
having done more in these circumstances.
When Mrs E reported this to NatWest they attempted to recall the funds from the recipient
bank without success. I dont think NatWest did anything which negatively impacted whetherfunds could be recovered.
I accept that Mrs E has received poor service from N and that this will have been an
upsetting time for her. But overall, I dont think NatWest have treated Mrs E unfairly or that
they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
NatWest responded but didnt have anything to add. Mrs E didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman