DRN-1852552
The complaint
Ms S complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited wrongly made payments to a company 
claiming service charges in relation to her property. She asks that it refunds her mortgage 
account, corrects her credit record and provides copies of correspondence. 
 
What happened
Ms S says Rooftop made payments to a business (which Ill refer to as E) claiming service 
charges in relation to her leasehold property. It added these costs to her mortgage balance. 
She say E isnt the freeholder and ground rent is paid to a different company. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said it was reasonable 
for Rooftop to pay the fees as it reasonably believed its security was at risk.
Ms S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S is in dispute with E, which is the managing agent for her property. I cant look into the 
dispute between Ms S and E. But I can consider whether Rooftop acted correctly and fairly 
when making payments to E and charging the cost to Ms Ss mortgage account.
The mortgage conditions say Ms S must comply with the terms of the lease. The conditions 
also say Ms S is responsible for expenses incurred by Rooftop in remedying her failure to 
comply with the mortgage conditions, and these costs form part of the mortgage debt.
I think the mortgage conditions allow Rooftop to make payments to E, where these are due 
and not paid by Ms S. But Id only consider this reasonable if Rooftop genuinely believed its 
security was at risk. This is not when a freeholder threatens to forfeit the lease, but when the 
matter has been to court or a relevant tribunal and its been determined that there has been 
a breach of the lease. 
Theres an exception to this, if its only ground rent thats outstanding and other conditions 
are met. That exception doesnt apply here.
Here, Rooftop received copies of judgements from the county court saying Ms S owed 
money to E. It also received a copy of a section 146 notice E said had been served on Ms S. 
Ms S says shes never been served with any court papers. However, Rooftop wrote to Ms 
each time it received a request for payment from E. It told Ms S about the requests for 
payment and gave her an opportunity to take action  either to pay the amount demanded or 
to challenge it. 
Rooftop knew Ms S was in dispute with E. Shed made a complaint in 2016 about Rooftop 
making payments to E. And when Rooftop contacted her she said she disputed the charges. 
But I havent seen evidence that she took action  to have the county court judgements set 
aside or to ask a suitable tribunal to rule the charges unfair.
On this basis, I think it was reasonable for Rooftop to believe the money was owed and there 
was a genuine risk to its security. I think it was reasonable for it to pay the sums claimed by 
E and add the cost to Ms Ss mortgage account.
The complaint Ms S raised with Rooftop, and then brought to us was about payments made 
by Rooftop to E. When Ms S brought the complaint to us her mortgage was in arrears and 
Rooftop had told her it intends to take action for possession of her property. This wasnt part 
of the complaint brought to us, and so I wont look into it here. But Id remind Rooftop of its 
obligation to treat Ms S fairly, and take account of guidance issued by the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority) related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Current guidance says 
lenders shouldnt start or re-start possession action until after October 2020. This gives Ms S 
some breathing space. Id encourage her to use this time to contact Rooftop with the aim of 
agreeing an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman