DRN-4020206
The complaint
Miss E complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna Personal Finance) 
(Novuna) unfairly rejected her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), in respect of the quality of a sofa. 
What happened
Miss E entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Novuna for a sofa in May 2017, the cash 
price of the sofa was £458, Miss E paid a deposit of £51. She agreed to repay 48-monthly 
instalments of £8.47.
 
The sofa was delivered in June 2017, Miss E said that shortly after the delivery she noticed 
the sofa was very uncomfortable. She said that rather than being relaxing as described the 
sofa was very hard, she thought this would soften over time, but it only got worse with the 
cushion seats becoming flat and lumpy with the springs poking through. Miss E complained 
that her cushions are fibre filled and she wasnt given the option to get foam filled cushions. 
She also said the arm rests were collapsing and the frame was substandard. Miss E says 
that as a result of the issues with the sofa she now has shoulder and neck problems.
 
In November 2022 Miss E contacted the retailer. It explained that due to the passage of time 
she was outside its two-year warranty covering interiors, stitching and fabrics, so she would 
need to pay for any parts or repairs of those related items. It confirmed she was still within 
the 15-year structural guarantee to cover against manufacturing defects or frame failure or 
springs. The retailer offered to send someone out to inspect the sofa, Miss E declined the 
inspection visit because she didnt think she should be responsible for the issues with the 
seat and cushions.
Unable to resolve her complaint with the retailer, Miss E asked Novuna to consider her 
dispute under section 75 CCA. She wanted Novuna to allow her to reject the sofa, refund all 
her instalments and pay her compensation for the shoulder and neck issues experienced. 
Novuna declined the claim, it didnt think there was any evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the retailer. Miss E complained, in response Novuna maintained it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss E brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
was of the view that comfortability is subjective and as the sofa wasnt made to measure, he 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
He thought the issues with the sofa were due to wear and tear, so didnt think Novuna made 
a mistake when it declined Miss Es section 75 claim.
Miss E disagreed, she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file and seen the more recent information Miss E has provided, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an 
alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss E acquired the sofa using a regulated fixed sum loan agreement. So, Im satisfied this 
service can consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.
When something goes wrong with goods or services and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with certain types of credit, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 
75 claim. This section of the CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the retailer if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer. 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. But I 
take section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, 
but I dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when 
considering breach of contract or misrepresentation. From what I can see, all the necessary 
criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have been met.
 
So, I will now consider whether there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
sofas quality
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the sofa shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss E. And if it wasnt, then under section 75 
Novuna would be responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, durability and 
other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the goods were supplied. Although Miss E tells us that she noticed the sofa was very 
uncomfortable after taking delivery of it, the earliest evidence we have of Miss E raising any 
concerns about the sofa is in November 2022, some five years after the sofa was supplied. 
This means the onus is on Miss E to show that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied in 2017.
So, Ive considered what Miss E has said and all the evidence she has provided. Miss E 
says the sofa is uncomfortable and not as described, she points to the sofa being described 
as relaxing and deeply padded on its website and believes it is faulty and not fit for purpose. 
However, comfortability is subjective. It will depend partly on the users own preferences, 
perceptions and characteristics  including their body weight, height, their seating position, 
what they are used to, and what they like and dislike. So, whilst I dont doubt that Miss E 
finds the sofa uncomfortable, and it may be harder than she expected, however I dont think 
this means there is a fault.
Miss E says the sofa seat is very large, which means she cant position herself properly, 
making sitting uncomfortable, she believes the sofa is the cause of problems she has experienced with her neck and shoulder. I am sorry to hear about these problems. And I can 
see Miss E has provided a physiotherapy referral letter for shoulder pain, but Ive not seen 
anything to indicate this is a result of the sofa being faulty. Nor have I seen anything to 
suggest Miss E got a made to measure sofa, or let the retailer know about any specific 
requirements needed, so I cant fairly say the sofa wasnt fit for purpose. 
Miss E says the sofa seat cushions could be filled with soft fibre or foam but says the retailer 
didnt give her the option of the foam filled cushion seats. However, from the screenshot she 
provided from the retailers website I can see the sofa is supplied with fibre filled seat 
cushions as standard. And Miss E would have had to pay more to upgrade to the foam filled 
seat cushions. Ive not seen any evidence to show Miss E selected or paid to upgrade to 
foam filled seat cushions. So, I dont think there was a breach of contract here.
Having looked at the photographs of the sofa I can see the sofa seat cushions look slightly 
sunken and the armrest cover is a bit baggy. But just because the legislation says goods 
must be of satisfactory quality and free from defects, this doesnt mean theyll never wear or 
show signs of usage. Miss E has been using the sofa for over five years, so I think the 
appearance of the sunken cushions and loose arm rest cover is more likely to be the result 
of normal wear and tear. In addition, I can see that the retailers website recommends the 
fibre filled cushions are regularly plumped to maintain their shape. 
Id expect a sofa to show some signs of wear and tear after five years, especially as its an 
item which tends to be in everyday use. And in the absence of Miss E providing any 
independent evidence, like an independent report to confirm a manufacturing defect or 
premature wear and tear, Im not persuaded the sofa, isnt durable. Overall, I dont think 
there is enough evidence to say the appearance of the sofa is due to a fault present at the 
point of supply.
 
Miss E has also complained about the frame being sloppy and being able to feel the springs 
poking through the seat cushions. Unfortunately, none of these issues are obvious from the 
photos provided, other than what Miss E has told us about these problems, I havent seen 
anything to confirm these faults or anything to show these issues were present from the 
point of supply. In any event, the retailer confirmed Miss E is still within the 15-year warranty 
period in respect of issues with the springs and frame and offered an inspection visit to 
inspect the sofa for these problems, so I dont think there is a breach of contract in respect of 
this.
was the sofa misrepresented?
Miss E says the retailer misrepresented in its adverts and its inbound call-messaging service 
that its furniture is long lasting and of a high standard but feels the sofa she purchased isnt 
of a good standard.  In addition, Miss E says the sofa was misrepresented on its website as 
being relaxing and having a sinking in feeling, but says the sofa is hard and very 
uncomfortable.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a party into entering a 
contract. So, to find a misrepresentation, I must be satisfied that a false statement was made 
by the retailer, and that statement was a key reason for Miss E entering the contract. I can 
see the retailer described its furniture as being long lasting, however, I dont think this means 
that a sofa would never show signs of wear and tear, so I dont think a false statement was 
made in respect of the standard of its furniture. In addition, Im not persuaded the 
statements on the call messaging service and adverts, were what induced Miss E into 
entering the contract.In respect of the sofa being described as relaxing and having a sinking in feeling, I accept 
that Miss E finds the sofa to be uncomfortable, but as Ive explained above, comfortability is 
subjective, so another customer might feel the same sofa is relaxing and comfortable, so Im 
not persuaded the retailer made a false statement when it described Miss Es sofa. 
More recently Miss E has said she has measured the sofa dimensions and compared them 
with the dimension information on the retailers website, and they arent the same, she says 
there are discrepancies of up to 10-15cm. I cant see that Miss E previously raised this issue 
with either the retailer or the finance company before. And given the passage of time, since 
Miss E got her sofa in 2017, I think its plausible that the dimensions for the model have 
changed. And even if it hasnt, and Miss Es dimensions were different to the dimensions 
advertised at the time she entered the contract in 2017, Im not persuaded this was a key 
reason for her entering the contract, I say this because if it was, I would have expected her 
to have raised the discrepancy shortly after she took delivery, but Miss E has raised this 
nearly six years on. It follows that I dont think the retailer misrepresented the dimensions of 
the sofa.
Having considered everything, I dont think Miss E has provided enough evidence to show 
either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract here, in the circumstances I dont think it 
was unfair for Novuna to decline Miss Es section 75 claim. So, I dont think it needs to 
accept her rejection of the sofa, refund any of her instalments or pay her compensation. 
I know Miss E will be disappointed with my decision, but this decision is the final stage of our 
process, so we wont be able to comment further, and if Miss E doesnt accept my decision, 
she is free to pursue this matter through the courts, as she has indicated she will do. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 
12 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman