DRN-4176310
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice TenetConnect Limited trading as Tenet Network Services 
(Tenet) gave him to switch his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr T was advised by a representative of Tenet in 2021 to switch his personal pension to a 
SIPP. Mr T lived abroad, so the advice took place over video calls.  
In late 2021 Mr Ts adviser left Tenet. And Tenet provided the details of a new adviser. 
In early 2022 the new adviser informed Mr T that Tenet was unable to represent him as he 
lived abroad. 
Mr T complained to Tenet. In response Tenet acknowledged that their adviser shouldnt 
normally provide advice to non-UK residents. Despite this, they felt the advice was still 
suitable. Tenet still offered Mr T compensation including the return of their on-going fees, 
£300 for the trouble and inconvenience they caused and £2,000 towards Mr T receiving new 
financial advice.
Mr T brought his complaint to our Service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. They asked 
Tenet to put things right by completing a loss calculation to see if Mr T had suffered a 
financial loss because of the advice. The investigator concluded it was likely Mr T would 
have remained with his previous provider  Scottish Widows. So, our investigator asked 
Tenet to find out the notional value of what the Scottish Widows pension would have been 
worth had it not transferred. And to compare that with the value of Mr Ts current pension. 
Our investigator said it would be fair for Tenets fees and the SIPP providers fees to be 
returned to Mr T. 
Tenet and Mr T initially accepted our investigators opinion on how to put things right.
Since our investigator upheld the complaint, Tenet have completed a loss calculation. 
Scottish Widows provided Tenet with a notional value of what Mr Ts pension would have 
been worth on 29 March 2023 had Mr T not transferred it to the SIPP. The notional value 
Scottish Widows gave was £254,107.83.
Tenet say the actual value of Mr Ts SIPP on 29 March 2023 was £280,925.72. So, Tenet 
say Mr T gained by £26,817.83 from their advice. They offered to pay Mr T £300 for the 
trouble and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T was unhappy with Tenets offer. He said it was his understanding from our Investigators 
opinion of the complaint that Tenets compensation should be comprised of four elements;
(1) The loss assessment comparing any difference in the value of his SIPP and the 
notional value of his Scottish Widows pension had he remained there. 
(2) The return of all fees from his SIPP provider.
(3) The return of the initial and on-going advice fees from Tenet.
(4) £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T says Tenets offer of compensation ignores points (2) and (3) which he feels should be 
separately refunded to him.
Tenet disagreed as they said the notional value from Scottish Widows assumes all of the 
funds remained with them, therefore the initial adviser charge wouldnt have been deducted 
from the notional value. And the current SIPP value included all charges that had been paid. 
So, they say Mr Ts gain of around £26,000 more than negates the charges and fees 
incurred.
Our investigator agreed that Tenets calculation showed that even including the fees Mr T 
had paid to Tenet and his SIPP provider, he was still better off. So, he didnt think it was fair 
to separately refund the fees to Mr T. 
Mr T disagreed. In summary he said his complaint has always been about the fees he paid 
Tenet and he didnt think Tenet should be allowed to keep the fees when they shouldnt have 
given the advice in the first place. Mr T now says he wouldnt have stayed with Scottish 
Widows and would have found another adviser. And he hasnt had any on-going advice from 
Tenet over the past two years. So, it isnt a fair comparison to use the notional value of his 
Scottish Widows fund. He also didnt think it was fair that the loss assessment only provides 
a snapshot of his potential losses which could change over time. 
Mr Ts comments didnt change our investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide how to resolve things. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side seem to dispute that Tenet shouldnt have given the advice that they did. But to 
be clear I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T was given advice to switch his pension by an appointed representative of Tenet. 
Tenets rules included a restriction that ought to have prevented the appointed 
representative from advising non-UK residents both initially and on an on-going 
basis.
One of Mr Ts primary objectives was to have his pensions reviewed and obtain on-
going advice on his pension  something which Tenet couldnt provide to Mr T as a 
non-UK resident. So the advice was unsuitable as it didnt meet Mr Ts main 
objective. 
Tenet ought not to have advised Mr T and explained their reasons for not doing so.
As Tenet shouldnt have given Mr T the advice that it did, a fair and reasonable 
outcome would be to put Mr T back into the position he would now have been in had 
he not received the advice from Tenet. 
For these reasons, I uphold the complaint. 
Ive then considered Mr Ts comments about the redress offered by Tenet, which appear to be the only outstanding issues in the complaint that require a decision from me. 
In awarding fair compensation my aim is to put Mr T as closely as possible into the position 
he would probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. 
I accept that its possible Mr T would have instructed a different financial adviser if Tenet told 
him they were unable to help. And its likely a different adviser would have provided their 
own recommendation (at an unknown cost to Mr T). 
However, its impossible to know, without the benefit of hindsight, what another adviser 
would have recommended. They may have recommended Mr T remain where he was, or 
move to another provider and investment. And I cant say with any certainty whether that 
recommendation would have performed better, or worse, than Mr Ts current position. 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Tenet to compensate Mr T for hypothetical losses had 
another adviser given a recommendation that differed from Tenets. I think a fairer 
comparison is to use the notional value of what Mr Ts Scottish Widows pension would have 
been worth had it not moved. So, Im satisfied that I can fairly conclude that its reasonable 
to base the loss calculation on Mr T having remained with his previous provider.  
Tenet have provided compelling evidence that had Mr T remained with his previous provider, 
his pension would have been notionally worth considerably less than its actual value on the 
date of their calculation.
The actual value of Mr Ts pension fund used in the calculation included the fact that fees for 
initial and on-going advice, as well as the charges of the SIPP provider have already been 
deducted from his fund.
So, I think the calculation completed by Tenet already took into account the fees from both 
the SIPP provider and Tenet that wouldnt have been paid if Mr T had remained with his 
previous provider. And it demonstrated that even having paid those fees, Mr T is better off 
now. I dont think it would be fair to additionally then pay the fees back to Mr T which had 
already been included in the loss calculation.
I can appreciate Mr T strength of feeling that Tenet shouldnt be able to profit from giving 
advice that it shouldnt have by retaining the fees theyve charged him. But its our services 
role to be an informal dispute resolution service. We dont have a regulatory or disciplinary 
role in relation to Tenet.
When looking at compensation, we dont fine or punish firms. When theres been an error, 
we look at the impact of that and decide fair compensation to redress financial loss or trouble 
and upset. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Tenets errors caused Mr T any loss. So, I wont 
direct Tenet to pay anything more. 
I also appreciate Mr Ts concerns that the calculations only show potential losses, or gains, 
on the specific date of comparison  which could change in the future. However, Ive seen 
no evidence Tenet specifically chose the date of the calculation which was 29 March 2023 
and it followed our Service confirming to Tenet that Mr T accepted our investigators view.
Its our Services role to decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis using the evidence 
before us. We cant keep cases open indefinitely just in case there is a loss in the future. 
And Tenet arent now responsible for choices Mr T makes with his pension, as they are no 
longer his advisers. So, I wont hold them responsible for any future losses. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate for Tenet to have completed the loss assessment on Mr Ts 
complaint when it did, and I wont ask them to do it again now. 
Tenets actions caused Mr T inconvenience to now try and put things right. But Tenet have 
offered him £300 for the trouble and inconvenience they caused. And I think that broadly 
reflects the inconvenience caused. So, Tenet must now pay Mr T £300 if they havent 
already done so.
Tenet previously made an offer to pay £2,000 towards a review of Mr Ts pension by another 
adviser. This doesnt form part of my award as Ive already described what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint. Mr T will need to discuss this offer with Tenet if 
he now wishes to accept it.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
TenetConnect Limited trading as Tenet Network Services must pay Mr T £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman