DRN-2273242
The complaint
Miss P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed her account and withheld her 
funds. She wants Barclays to compensate her for the financial losses and distress she was 
caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Barclays is able to refuse to give its reasons for closing Miss Ps account. I 
appreciate this has come as an unwelcome surprise to Miss P and her father (Mr P), 
who represents her on this complaint. Mr P has said that, while he disagrees that 
Barclays should be allowed to do this, he and Miss P accept this point.
- Miss P says Barclays actions are akin to theft, but I find there is a legal and 
regulatory basis for preventing access to funds. Barclays has a broad variety of 
obligations it must balance when providing accounts to customers. And to fulfil these 
obligations, it may want to review the activity taking place on an account. During a 
review, it may also want to place restrictions on an account, such as removing 
access from an account or removing funds. Its important to say that if Barclays didnt 
sometimes take action of this kind, it could risk serious sanction. 
- Ive considered Barclays reasons for undertaking the review and removing Miss Ps 
funds. And I understand why it made its decision. This doesnt mean Miss P did 
anything wrong  after all Barclays did eventually allow her access to her funds. And 
I appreciate Miss P was very concerned and worried. But Im not awarding 
compensation for the decision to remove her funds because I find the decision was 
reasonable.
- Barclays says it ought not to have closed Miss Ps account immediately, and instead 
it shouldve given her two months notice on 10 April 2019. Had this happened, it 
says Miss P wouldve been able to access the remaining funds in her account earlier. 
So, it follows Barclays ought to pay Miss P compensation for reasonable losses 
caused by her not having access to her funds during this period. Barclays has offered 
£350 to make up for her losses and the distress she was caused. But she doesnt 
think this is enough.
- I can only consider losses experienced by Miss P under this complaint. She is the 
eligible complainant. What this means is I cant consider losses experienced by other 
persons, such as Mr P. Mr P has said he made payment for one of the cheques 
which bounced on Miss Ps behalf - in other words he bore her loss. So, I dont find 
Miss P experienced a financial loss here. And, the other cheque which bounced was 
to Mr P. Ive seen not seen that Miss P incurred costs because of the delay in paying 
him. So, I find she didnt experience a financial loss here either.
- Miss P consulted an accountant for advice and says Barclays ought to reimburse her 
costs. But I dont think this is reasonable. Miss P had a choice to seek professional 
advice. I appreciate this is something Miss P wanted to do  and that of course is her 
right - but she couldve referred her complaint to our service without doing so. So, I 
wont be directing Barclays to reimburse her. 
- My role is not to award redress to penalise a firm for an error. Instead, fining or 
punishing a firm falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority, the 
regulator.
- I find £350 is a modest sum to make up for Miss P not having access to her funds for 
13 days from 10 April 2019. I appreciate she is a young person and she was studying 
for a high-level qualification; so not having access to her account must have 
impacted on her wellbeing to some extent. But the impact an event like this may have 
on someone is very subjective. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss P would 
be more impacted than another person in her situation. 
- I havent seen evidence to show Miss Ps ability to obtain credit in the future has 
been impacted by her cheques bouncing or because of her account being restricted, 
which is something she has expressed concern about.
Putting things right
 Barclays should pay Miss P its offer of £350 to make up for its error within 28 days of Miss P 
accepting the offer.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays UK Bank PLC should pay Miss P £350 in line with its original 
offer and my direction above, unless this has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman