DRN-1770733
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account, 
called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). She paid a monthly fee for the account 
and received several potential benefits in return. She thinks that Bank of Scotland should 
refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mrs B has banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has looked 
at its records for her, which I believe to be reliable, and it has told us they show that: 
in 1994, Mrs B opened a basic current account which didnt have a fee,
in 2004, she switched to a classic current account which was also fee-free,
in 2009, Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mrs B and started to charge her the 
monthly fees,
Mrs B paid the monthly fees until 2018, when she switched back to a classic account.
Mrs B seems to have accepted this account history, and I have taken it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Mrs B any money back. Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs B and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mrs Bs complaint is that she believes Bank of Scotland misled her into thinking 
it was withdrawing the fee-free account from her. Shes told us that she went into one of its 
branches on routine business and was asked to see one of the Bank of Scotlands advisers, 
who told her that her fee-free account was obsolete. Shes told us that Bank of Scotlands 
approach to her was unsolicited, and that it told her there was no alternative to buying the 
URCA.
Mrs B has also said that at the time she was in ill health and expected to lose her job as a 
result. Shes said that her financial situation was going to get difficult and that if Bank of 
Scotland had given her a fair choice, she would never have chosen to exchange (her) 
existing account (for) one with monthly fees attached. Bank of Scotland has told us 
that it gave Mrs B a fair choice about the URCA, and she chose to buy it. Mrs B has 
described Bank of Scotlands position as utterly absurd.
Obviously, I wasnt present during the discussion between Bank of Scotland and Mrs B, and 
neither party has been able to send us any detailed records from the time, so I cant be 
certain about what happened. Instead, I have considered the evidence that is available to 
decide what is most likely to have occurred.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that Bank of Scotland was not withdrawing fee-free accounts in 
2009. It has continued to provide them, as have several other UK banks. They are still widely 
available. So, it seems to me that the critical point in this case is whether Bank of Scotland 
distorted the truth in a way which made Mrs B think that she had no choice. I think this is 
unlikely.
By 2009, Mrs B had held a fee-free account for around fifteen years; and it would have been 
a significant change for Bank of Scotland to tell her that it was withdrawing the account from 
her without notice, based on a chance visit she made to one of its branches. I dont think its 
very likely this happened. I accept that Bank of Scotland may well have approached Mrs B to 
tell her about the URCA. But it was allowed do this, I dont consider such practices to be mis-
selling. I dont think Bank of Scotland misled Mrs B into thinking she had to change 
accounts. I think its more likely that it told her about the URCA and then gave her a choice. 
Although the question of choice was at the heart of Mrs Bs complaint, in fairness to her, I 
have also considered if Bank of Scotland may have mis-sold the URCA to her in other ways. 
In 2009, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both 
situations, as well as giving Mrs B a choice, Bank of Scotland would have had to tell her 
about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale it would also have had 
to check if the URCA was appropriate for her circumstances. 
On our questionnaire, Mrs B told us that Bank of Scotland recommended the URCA to her. 
She linked her answer directly with her view that Bank of Scotland didnt give her a choice to 
keep her fee-free account. Bank of Scotland has told us that it sold the URCA on an 
information-only basis. 
Once again, I cant tell for sure what happened, but in 2009 when Bank of Scotland sold 
URCAs through its branches, it didnt usually give personal advice; and I havent seen 
anything significant to make me think it charged its usual process for Mrs B. So, I have 
assessed the case as a non-advised sale. 
There doesnt seem to be any doubt that Bank of Scotland told Mrs B how much she would 
have to pay for the URCA, so Im satisfied that it met its obligation to tell her about the 
URCAs costs. In 2009, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, free 
use of a car breakdown service and mobile phone insurance. Customers with URCAs who 
overdrew their accounts would also pay less in charges and interest than most customers 
with one of Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts. 
I think its highly likely that Bank of Scotland told Mrs B about these benefits. After all, it was 
trying to sell the URCA to her, and it was in its own interest to tell her what she could gain in 
return for her monthly fee.
Mrs B has told us that in 2009 her health was deteriorating, and she never travelled, so she 
didnt need travel insurance. I am sorry to hear about Mrs Bs health and I accept her comments about travel insurance. But I understand that she drove a car, and used a mobile 
phone, so potentially these benefits could have been useful for her. Similarly, given her 
changing financial situation, the lower cost of an overdraft may have attracted her to the 
URCA. Moreover, as Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland probably didnt recommend the 
URCA to Mrs B, its possible value to her would have been something for her to decide for 
herself. 
Mrs B has also mentioned that some of the benefits of the URCA, such as the car 
breakdown service, duplicated products she held elsewhere. I accept this, but it would have 
been for Mrs B to decide what she wanted to do about this duplication.
Mrs B has also told us that Bank of Scotland told her she could pay money into the URCA 
from her savings if she lost her job. I dont know a great deal about this part of the 
discussion. I understand that at the time the balance on Mrs Bs account was quite high and 
remained that way for several months, and I see no reason why Bank of Scotland would 
have raised this topic. However, whatever the detailed circumstances, Mrs B doesnt seem 
to have lost out as a result and I dont consider it to have been mis-selling. 
So, in summary, while I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right in 
the way it sold the URCA to Mrs B, Im satisfied that it gave her a choice and told her about 
the accounts potential benefits and costs. I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA 
to Mrs B.
Finally, in correspondence with us, Mrs B has mentioned that she has, or had, other financial 
products from Bank of Scotland, such as a mortgage and a home insurance policy. She has 
referred to occasions where she believes Bank of Scotland failed to meet its obligations to 
her for these products. She has explained that she has told us about these possible failings 
solely for the purpose of illustrating that Bank of Scotland is not an efficient organisation 
and that it has accepted its errors. 
I have taken Mrs Bs comments about the other products as representing her personal 
perception of Bank of Scotland, but I have not made any direct judgements about them as 
part of this decision. So, Mrs B remains free to raise them further with Bank of Scotland if 
she so wishes. However, I cannot give her any advice about this or indicate what the 
outcome may be. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc mis-sold an URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman