DRN-3457584
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Oplo Car 
Finance (Oplo) trading as 1st Stop Car Finance (1st Stop) wasnt fit for purpose so he was 
entitled to reject it. He would like his credit agreement unwound and credit file amended
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
When issues arise with vehicles within the first six months, we usually say its the 
business responsibility to investigate and if faults are found to have been present at 
the point of sale to repair. I appreciate Mr L has told us he had issues from when he 
first got the car, but I have no evidence of this. The first evidence of a problem  is 
from an invoice dated 18 April 2019 some seven months after Mr L got the car. Most 
of the work identified on this invoice would fall under general maintenance for wear 
and tear issues. Given Mr L took out an agreement for a seven-year-old car with 
over 50000 miles on the clock he could expect such issues to arise. 
However, the invoice identified  the front abs sensor had been wrongly fitted.  It didnt 
state if this would have been so since the point of sale but Oplo accepts that this is 
likely to have been a point of sale issue. But I agree with Oplo that this would have 
been  a simple fix and the evidence seems to show this work was done. 
Mr L has told us subsequent repairs were needed but hasnt evidenced this. He  also 
provided a quote for further work. Its not clear to me from this if the work needed 
related to the abs sensor or not. So, I cant reasonably conclude that the repair on 
the abs sensor failed.
Mr L unfortunately chose to reject the car by sending a letter to , I believe , the head 
office of the dealership he got the car from. He also chose to stop making payments 
from July 2019. There are three problems with this course of action. Firstly,  Oplo 
has now sold he car so its not possible to undertake any further investigation to see 
if the abs sensor issue wasnt properly repaired  had this been the case this might 
have been grounds for rejection.
Secondly under the agreement Mr L signed,  Oplo were entitled to sell the car at 
auction when the payments stopped. I think Oplo acted reasonably, it issued a 
default notice on 3 September 2019 which I understand Mr L didnt respond to . Oplo 
then sent a recovery notice on 23 September 2019. The sale at auction left an 
outstanding debt of £5,231.23 for which Mr L is now liable.
Finally, in stopping making payments Mr Ls credit file has been impacted. But the 
agreement he signed made it clear that this might happen. I havent seen Mr Ls 
credit file but if missed payments are shown I dont think that is unreasonable as 
Oplo was entitled to report this.
Given I have no evidence that the abs sensor issue wasnt correctly repaired  and 
Oplo was entitled under the terms of its agreement to recover and sell the car I cant 
reasonably ask Oplo to retrospectively allow Mr L to reject the car, unwind his 
agreement and alter his credit file to reflect this as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman