DRN-3163194
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy about the service he received from Vanquis Bank Limited and how it 
managed his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Ns Vanquis credit card statements show that the credit limit had been 
exceeded and that the monthly repayment had not been successful. This initially led to 
charges being applied to the account and, ultimately, a payment arrangement being put in 
place. Mr N is unhappy about the service he received during this time and how his account 
and payment arrangement was managed. So, he complained to Vanquis. 
Vanquis partly upheld Mr Ns complaint. It said that a complaint should have been raised 
sooner than it had been, and it apologised that this hadnt happened. It also paid Mr N £75 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. And refunded £9.94 in interest as a gesture of 
goodwill.
But it didnt agree that it had managed Mr Ns account incorrectly. Mr N didnt accept this, 
and he raised a number of further points which Vanquis responded to in detail. But Vanquis 
didnt change the outcome it had reached. Mr N remained unhappy with Vanquis response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. Overall, he 
felt Vanquis had handled Mr Ns financial circumstances and subsequent complaint fairly. 
So, he didnt think that Vanquis needed to do anything more. Mr N raised further points with 
the investigator which were considered. But the investigator didnt think Mr Ns latest 
comments changed the outcome he had reached. Mr N disagreed, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has raised a number of issues both with Vanquis and in response to our investigators 
findings. So, I hope Mr N will understand that Ive had to summarise what hes told us about 
his complaint somewhat in the above section. And my findings below may not go into the 
detail Mr N would like. The rules that apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to 
do this and it reflects our role - which is to resolve disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers informally. 
But I want to assure Mr N that, if I dont address every point that he has raised, its not 
because I havent thought about whats hes told us. I have considered everything the parties 
have said and sent to us. And Ive taken into account any laws and regulations, regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice (where 
appropriate), when making my decision.
Having done so, Ive come to the overall same conclusions as our investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons (although I have provided some further explanation to those 
reasons). I know Mr N will be disappointed as his correspondence makes it clear how 
strongly he feels about his complaint, so Ill explain why.
As Mr N has raised a number of issues, Ill deal with them under some broad headings and 
in date order of when the events happened (where possible). 
 
Mis-information about direct debit payments and interest in August 2019 
Mr N says that he was mis-advised about how to make up a missed payment during a phone 
call in August 2019. Ive listened to this call, and Im satisfied Mr N was given the option to 
make a manual payment or wait for the next direct debit to collect the full payment. Im 
satisfied Mr N agreed to wait for the direct debit to collect the payment. I can see that 
Vanquis sent Mr N a transcript of what was said in this call, and I think this fairly represents 
the call recording I have listened to. So, I dont think Mr N was mis-advised on this point.
However, as interest is charged daily, Mr N did incur some additional interest as a result of 
not making a manual payment at the time of call (part of the payment was to clear the 
account arrears and interest is calculated daily on the outstanding balance). But Vanquis 
refunded the additional interest charged - £9.94, when it responded to his complaint. I think 
this is fair in the circumstances as it put Mr Ns account in the position it would have been in 
had he made a manual payment during the call.  
There is some suggestion that Mr N intended to clear the outstanding balance in full at this 
time. However, Mr N didnt make such a suggestion during this call. So, Im satisfied he was 
only seeking to make the minimum payment that was due at the time - £433.77.   
Charges from August 2019  February 2020
Mr N has complained about charges applied to his account. Mr Ns statements show that 
charges were incurred from August 2019 to February 2020 and from December 2020. Here, 
Ive looked at the charges Vanquis applied to Mr Ns account from August 2019 to                 
February 2020. I will address the charges applied from December 2020 further down in my 
decision.
As mentioned above, I can see from Mr Ns statements that he exceeded his credit limit in 
August 2019. This was a result of spending on the account and Mr Ns direct debit payment 
being returned unpaid by his bank. As a result, late payment and over limit fees were 
incurred. But I can see the late payment fee was later refunded.  
Mr Ns September 2019 statement also shows the next direct debit (£433.77 mentioned 
above) was also returned unpaid. But Mr N put this right by making a manual payment. 
However, the statements also show that in the following months, the full payment required 
wasnt received. And further late payment fees were charged each month up to and 
including the February 2020 statement.      
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns account make provision for such charges to be applied in 
these circumstances and the charges were clearly detailed on Mr Ns statements. So, I dont 
think Vanquis did anything wrong when it applied these charges during this period. 
Telephone calls/customer service
Mr N says he contacted Vanquis several times between late 2019 and early 2021. And that 
he requested manager call backs, but this didnt happen. Vanquis doesnt agree. It acknowledges that call-backs were agreed. But it says it didnt promise a manager would call 
back. And it maintains that all call-backs were made by its representatives, but it says the 
calls werent answered. So, Ive reviewed the records Vanquis has provided to this service. 
These records are contemporaneous notes which Vanquis records when Mr N contacts it or 
vice versa. 
Having done so, I can see that several notes have been recorded during this time and some 
of them show Mr N requested a call back. But Im also satisfied that the notes show Vanquis 
attempted call-backs, but the calls werent answered. While these are notes of the calls, I 
have no reason to doubt the content of them. Particularly, as in one of the calls Ive listened 
to, Mr N acknowledges that sometimes he receives calls that he doesnt answer. This is 
because hes concerned that the call might be a scam as he doesnt recognise the number. 
But Ive seen that the Vanquis representative did explain that calls from Vanquis can be from 
a range of different numbers. On balance, I think its most likely that Vanquis did attempt to 
call-back Mr N, but the calls werent answered. 
Mr N is also unhappy that Vanquis says it cant locate call recordings for all the calls that 
happened in December 2019 and January 2020. Vanquis has provided this service with call 
recordings for calls made/received on several dates during this time frame. And they match 
the notes recorded in its customer records. I accept its possible that not all calls were 
recorded. But I dont think this is unusual as not all calls are recorded. In any event, I dont 
think any further call recordings (had any been available) would materially affect the 
outcome of this complaint.  
Payment arrangement and charges from October 2020 
Mr N has said that his financial difficulties came about due to the pandemic. So, I think it 
would be helpful if I address this point first. In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) introduced guidance to financial businesses about how to handle circumstances 
whereby a consumer was experiencing temporary financial issues solely because of the 
pandemic. This included a payment holiday for up to six months with no adverse impact on 
the consumers credit file.
But from what Ive seen in this case (and Ill go into more detail below), I think Mr Ns 
financial problems happened before the pandemic started. As mentioned above, Mr Ns 
statements show he was exceeding his credit limit and missing monthly payments from 
around August 2019. Therefore, I dont think the FCA covid relief scheme applied in Mr Ns 
circumstances. 
Where the covid relief scheme didnt apply, a lender was required to look at more bespoke 
arrangements  to meet their normal obligations to treat consumers in financial difficulty 
positively and sympathetically. What the lender offers to meet those requirements will vary 
depending on the individual circumstances. But typical remedies  in the short term, might 
be agreeing to reduced payments and/or suspending/reducing interest and charges for a 
period. But in severe cases of hardship or if the financial problems appear more long-term, it 
may be more appropriate to default the account. 
 
I can see from the above-mentioned call notes, that Mr N was contacting Vanquis from 
December 2019 about the arrears on his account and that he spoke to it more specifically 
about his financial difficulties in February 2020. The notes indicate Mr N told Vanquis he was 
between jobs as he was studying for a new job role. But that he hoped to resolve the 
situation by April 2020. Ive seen that Vanquis initially agreed a reduced payment 
arrangement of £32 per month for three months. As Mr N expected his difficulties to be 
short-term, and this happened before the pandemic, I think this was a reasonable response 
to his circumstances at the time. A new payment arrangement was set up in May 2020 whereby Mr N was required to pay 
£33 per month and interest was reduced. I can see that Mr N went on to pay £33 per month. 
However, Mr N says that Vanquis continued to charge him while on the payment 
arrangement. 
Having looked at the statements, I can see that Mr Ns account didnt incur any charges 
between June 2020 and November 2020. However, charges started to be applied from 
December 2020. Vanquis says this is because the payment arrangement came to an end 
after six months - hence charges were applied as the account returned to normal terms. 
Whereas Mr N believes that the arrangement was to run for as long as he needed it. So, Ive 
gone on to look at what was discussed when the payment arrangement was agreed and any 
correspondence that was issued relating it. This includes the call recording from when the 
payment was agreed, the account notes recorded at the time and letters sent to Mr N. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr N again told Vanquis that his financial problems were 
likely to be short-term, so I think a further temporary arrangement was suitable at this point. 
And Im satisfied Mr N was made aware that the term of the arrangement was for to six 
months. A longer-term arrangement was mentioned in the call, but it was explained this 
would involve Mr N losing the account facility, and Mr N confirmed that wasnt what he 
wanted. 
I can also see that Vanquis contacted Mr N when the arrangement was expiring. And I note 
that Mr Ns statements from November 2020 onwards set out the minimum monthly 
repayment had changed. I appreciate that Mr N continued to pay £33 per month, but overall, 
I think Vanquis did enough to make Mr N aware of the terms of the payment arrangement  
both at the start and end of the arrangement. So, Im unable to agree that Vanquis acted 
unfairly in respect of the payment arrangement or when the account returned to normal 
terms. 
Ive seen that Vanquis asked Mr N to contact it when the arrangement ended if he still 
needed support. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr N contacted Vanquis in this 
regard. This meant that Mr Ns account returned to normal terms and started to incur 
charges as the £33 per month payment he was making wasnt sufficient to cover what was 
required. As Im satisfied the arrangement had expired and a new payment arrangement 
hadnt been agreed, I think the charges were applied correctly at the time - in line with the 
terms of the account. 
Ive noted Mr N has also mentioned that Vanquis continued to charge him interest on his 
outstanding balance even though he is not making any new transactions. As mentioned 
above, Vanquis reduced the interest rate while he was on the payment arrangement. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest it agreed to suspend interest altogether. And interest was 
always payable  at the contractual rate, both before and after the payment arrangements 
were in force. And interest is payable on any outstanding balance regardless of whether      
Mr N was using the account for new transactions or not. So, I dont think Vanquis did 
anything wrong when it charged interest on Mr Ns account.    
Credit file data 
Mr N is unhappy that adverse data has been recorded on his credit file. But a lender is 
obliged to report accurate information about how an account is managed with the credit 
reference agencies. Here, Im satisfied that Vanquis was obliged to report that Mr N had 
missed payments and entered a payment arrangement. So, I dont think Vanquis was wrong 
to report such information about Mr Ns account. And Im satisfied that Vanquis made Mr N 
aware that missed payments and payment arrangements would impact his credit file. Complaint Handling
 
I can see Mr N believes that Vanquis fabricated a response to his complaint. And by issuing 
two final response letters (FRL) it has tried to cover up some wrongdoing. But I dont agree. I 
think Vanquis first FRL fairly sets out the issues Mr N complained about. And as Mr N 
responded to that first response, I dont think it was wrong or indeed unusual that a business 
would want to reply to those follow up comments. Which is what Vanquis did here. So, I 
dont think it did anything wrong in responding the way it did.
I can see that Vanquis has accepted that it should have set up the complaint sooner than it 
did. But I note it paid Mr N £75 compensation for the inconvenience this delay caused. I think 
the compensation fairly represents the inconvenience the delay caused given that Vanquis 
did go on to address Mr Ns complaint in full and hes been able to subsequently refer the 
matter to us.  
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, I dont think Vanquis is required to take any 
further action in respect of this complaint. I think it dealt with Mr Ns account and payment 
arrangement and his subsequent complaint fairly.
I appreciate that events have moved on since Vanquis responded to Mr Ns complaint. But I 
can only comment on the points raised by Mr N when he raised his complaint and what 
Vanquis responded to in its FRLs. If Mr N is still experiencing financial difficulties, I think it is 
for him to contact Vanquis to see how it may be able to help further going forward  this 
should include what has happened since he referred his complaint to us. Mr N may also 
benefit from contacting the following services:
StepChange: 0800 138 1111
National Debtline: 0161 640 5212
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman