DRN-4416386
The complaint
Mr B complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited is pursuing him for an 
outstanding amount after the cancellation of his motor insurance policies. He said this has 
affected his credit rating and his ability to borrow. Mr B is represented in this matter by Ms S.
 
What happened
Mr B said that he needed to cancel his insurance taken through First Central as it was 
unable to make the changes to his policies that he wanted. He said it offered him 
cancellations without fees and he then bought cover elsewhere. But he was unhappy that 
First Central then sought an outstanding amount from him. Mr B wanted First Central to 
cancel the charges. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt see 
evidence in a phone call where First Central said it would cancel the policies without charge. 
But she thought it was more likely than not that this had been agreed. She thought First 
Centrals charges for time on cover were fair and reasonable. And she thought it had fairly 
reduced the amounts owing. But she thought Mr B had been caused trouble and upset by 
being pursued for the debt. And she thought First Central should pay him £200 
compensation for this. 
First Central agreed to do this. But Ms S said the compensation was insufficient for the 
trouble and upset caused. She also said First Central hadnt removed adverse markers from 
Mr Bs credit record and these were affecting his borrowing. Ms S asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated that he was being pursued for an outstanding 
balance when he had cancelled his policies. He provided proof to First Central that he had 
taken out alternative cover when it couldnt quote for his change of vehicle. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The cancellation arrangements are explained on page 55 of the policy booklet:
If your policy is cancelled, the insurer will return any premium, including the deposit, paid for 
this policy less:
 a charge for the number of days the insurer has provided cover for;
 any fees applicable under the Intermediary Contract;
 any credit finance charges;
 any amount you may owe 1ST CENTRAL or the insurer under any other contract.
I can see that First Centrals fees are clearly set out in a table on page 60 of the policy 
booklet as part of the Intermediary Contract. There is a non-refundable £50 arrangement fee 
and a £50 fee for cancellation after 14 days. The charges are in keeping with others Ive 
seen. And so I think its reasonable for First Central to apply them. 
Mr B said he asked to cancel all three of his policies as First Central was unable to make 
changes he required. Mr B said First Central then agreed to waive its cancellation charges, 
but I havent been provided with the phone call to check this. However, First Central, in its 
response to his complaint, stated that it had waived the cancellation charges as it couldnt 
offer cover. So I think this supports Mr Bs statement. And I think First Central made an error 
when it pursued him for these cancellation charges. 
But Mr B would still owe First Central the insurers charges for his time on cover and the 
other fees. First Central set these out in a letter to Mr B and I cant see that they were 
incorrectly calculated.  
But Mr B had cancelled his direct debits and then didnt pay the outstanding amount. So First 
Central charged him default fees and recorded the missed payment on his credit record. 
First Central later recorded the account as settled when Mr B paid the balance owing four 
months after it requested payment, and it waived the default fees. But the marker remained 
on his record. 
Mr B said this was affecting his ability to obtain credit. But Ms S has agreed that this isnt the 
sole reason why Mr B has difficulty in obtaining credit. Shes not provided evidence showing 
that Mr Bs applications for credit were declined solely due to First Central recording a 
missed payment. 
In any case, Mr B did miss a payment. I can understand that he may not have understood 
why he was asked to pay an outstanding amount and that he disputed being charged 
cancellation fees. But I think he could still have paid the amounts and then disputed them. 
So I think its clear that Mr B missed a payment. 
First Central is obliged to maintain true records of consumers financial histories. I think it 
correctly recorded the missed payment and I dont require it to remove the marker. It follows 
that I cant reasonably hold First Central responsible for Mr B s failed credit applications.
But Mr B was caused trouble and upset when he was pursued by debt collectors for an 
amount hed already paid. First Central has agreed to pay him £200 compensation for this. 
And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the 
impact the error had. 
Putting things right
I require First Central Insurance Management Limited to pay Mr B £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require First Central Insurance Management Limited to carry out the redress set out above 
as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman