DRN-3518439
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc made it difficult for him to access his money after he 
started a repayment plan to clear his overdraft.
What happened
Mr W says he had to repeatedly call the bank to access his money, made up of his benefits 
and carers allowance. He was on long calls and transferred between different departments. 
Each time the bank said he wouldnt need to call again, but he had to. This caused Mr W 
significant emotional and mental distress. Initially, we were aware that the bank 
acknowledged Mr W had issues when he called in late September 2021 offered Mr W £39 to 
over his call costs and £40 for any distress and inconvenience caused. Mr W was unhappy 
with this saying the problems had continued after this date.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ws bank statements and mobile phone call log between 
September and December 2021. He said they showed that Mr W had needed to call the 
bank when he was at or close to his overdraft limit and was trying to withdraw funds or make 
a payment. And whilst a benefit payment may have been pending it might not yet have been 
available to draw against. He didnt find it unreasonable in such circumstances that the funds 
were not available to Mr W and that he needed to call the bank. So he found there was no 
further action the bank needed to take.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review. He said there were 
lots more calls than the investigator listed. It isnt fair the way he has been treated by the 
bank, it was nothing to do with his overdraft and he has suffered severe emotional distress 
and his mental health has deteriorated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. But first I want to 
respond to Mr Ws concern that we are not an impartial service. As an independent 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumers or financial businesses - theres no 
benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
We have obtained further information from the bank since the investigators assessment, but 
I dont think this changes the outcome of the complaint. I can see Mr W made five 
complaints to the bank about accessing his money and call times between 29 September 
2021 and 27 November 2021. Apart from the last complaint, they were all settled informally 
as Mr W accepted the banks response. Across the cases Bank of Scotland paid Mr W £110 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience he had experienced and £114 to cover any call 
costs. Bank of Scotland issued a final response letter for the last complaint. In this it clarified 
for Mr W how his payment plan worked: it was set up to reduce his overdraft by £55 each 
month and so would impact the available funds. It explained that, at that point, to help Mr W 
it had increased his overdraft temporarily and reset the reduction plan from 1 December 
2021.  
Bank of Scotland has confirmed that Mr W did not have an arranged overdraft facility so 
when he authorised debit card spend his account would enter into an unarranged overdraft. 
When his account was restricted, and he needed to call the bank, it was each time as a 
result of insufficient funds, not bank error. 
I have reviewed the account history that Bank of Scotland has provided. This records the 
discussions it had with Mr W (or his partner with his consent). They show that each time    
Mr W called the bank it was flexible with his unarranged overdraft, allowing a temporary limit 
and/or 48-hour limit increases to allow Mr W to access his benefits. So I disagree that the 
bank made it difficult for Mr W to access his money. 
And it set up his overdraft reduction plan after verbally going through Mr Ws income and 
expenditure with him and it explained how the plan would work. I can see from this log that 
there were many calls as Mr W says, and he has needed to speak to different departments. I 
understand this has been distressing, but I cant see that Bank of Scotland made any errors 
that created the need for the calls  rather it was as a result of his incomings, outgoings and 
overall account management. 
As Bank of Scotland has already recognised that the call times caused Mr W a level of 
distress and inconvenience and compensated him fairly for this, and for the likely costs of his 
calls, I am not instructing Bank of Scotland to do any more.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman