DRN-4155055
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about how Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Virgin Money) calculated his 
reward points on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr B took out a Virgin Atlantic credit card in March 2019. The account paid 1.5 reward points 
(flying club miles) for every £1 spent on purchases. Mr B later complained to Virgin Money 
because he said it did not give him all the points he was entitled to as he regularly spent 
above the credit limit and paid it off each month.
Virgin Money said he was informed that the reward points he could earn each month was 
capped to his credit limit. So, it didnt uphold his complaint 
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought Virgin Money 
had informed Mr B when it introduced the cap on the reward points, and he was satisfied it 
had calculated the points correctly. However, our investigator said Virgin Money ought to 
have looked into Mr Bs concerns better and he thought it should pay £100 in compensation 
for the inconvenience and confusion it caused.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision, he 
says Virgin Money did not notify him that the terms and conditions of the account changed 
and he couldnt earn points on what he spent above the credit limit each month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Firstly, I need to decide whether Virgin Money informed Mr B it would limit the number of 
points that could be earned each month, and if it correctly applied the terms and conditions 
of the account in calculating Mr Bs reward points. I think it did and Ill explain why: 
There is no dispute that when Mr B first entered into the credit agreement with Virgin 
Money, he was entitled to 1.5 points for every £1 spent on his credit card and there 
were no limitations on how much he could earn. 
Virgin Money says the system was incorrectly set so that there was no limit on the 
reward points a customer could earn. It amended the agreement so that from 
January 2020, points could be earnt on spending but only up to the credit limit. 
I appreciate Mr B says the cap on the reward points wasnt part of his original 
agreement, and I can see he benefitted from this for around nine months. Whether or 
not the cap was part of the original agreement, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Virgin Money to make amendments to the terms of the reward scheme, but I would 
expect it to do so fairly and reasonably.
I would expect Virgin Money to make its customers aware before changes are made 
which might impact them. Its system notes show that in December 2019, Mr B was 
sent an email regarding the changes and when they would come into effect. So, I find 
Virgin Money did enough to make him aware of the changes to the reward scheme. 
Mr B initially had a credit limit of £4,000 which meant from January 2020 the most he 
could earn on purchases each month was 6,000 reward points (miles) until he 
increased his credit limit at which point the maximum he could earn was 12,000 
points. Having reviewed Mr Bs statements, Im satisfied Virgin calculated the reward 
points in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Some months Mr B received bonus reward points in addition to the points he earned 
from purchases, which accounts for why the overall points earned in those months 
was higher than the limit. Ultimately, I think Virgin Money treated Mr B fairly and 
reasonably and I dont think hes been treated differently to other customers in a 
similar position, so I dont think it needs to pay the additional points Mr B thinks he is 
owed.
However, I think Virgin Money could have done more to support Mr B when he raised 
concerns about the points he had earned. Ive found it gave him incorrect information 
and this caused unnecessary confusion and frustration. I think £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused him is fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require 
Clydesdale Bank PLC to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman