DRN-1233754
 
The complaint
Miss R complains about the impact of charges applied to her account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. She wants Barclays to pay back the charges that have been applied to her account. 
She says they have caused her financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss R told us about the difficult personal circumstances that have affected her finances, 
and about what shed tried to do about this. She said that despite her best efforts, she was 
still in financial difficulties, using all of her overdraft and having to use credit cards to pay for 
essential living costs. 
Miss R wanted Barclays to pay her back all the bank charges it had applied in the last ten to 
fifteen years. She said these had made an already difficult situation much worse. 
Barclays would only look at charges for the last six years. And it said a court case in 2009 
meant bank charges cant be assessed for fairness. Barclays said it had told Miss R when 
charges were going to be applied, and asked her to contact it if she was in financial 
hardship. It didnt think it had acted unfairly in managing the lending on her account.
Barclays showed us it had been sending Miss R annual summaries of the fees applied to her 
account. And it was writing to her offering to help if she was finding it hard to manage her 
money. 
Our investigator told Miss R that wed only be able to look at charges applied in the last six 
years, and Miss R asked us to do that. She said things were still very difficult for her.
Our investigator then wrote to Miss R to say that he didnt think this complaint should be 
upheld. He said Barclays had applied charges in line with the terms of Miss Rs account, and 
the court case Barclays had referred to also meant that overdraft charges cant be 
challenged. He said he didnt think that the unpaid transaction fees were disproportionate. 
And he said he couldnt hold Barclays responsible for not addressing Miss Rs financial 
difficulties before she told it about the problems she was having. 
Miss R told us about the problems these charges were causing. She hadnt raised these with 
the bank because she was suffering from stress and depression. And Barclays had recently 
increased her credit card limit, even though it could see she was struggling. 
Our investigator wrote to reflect what Miss R had said, but said that unfortunately he hadnt 
changed his mind. And he said he could raise a separate complaint about credit card lending 
if she would like. 
Miss R said Barclays ought to have realised that she was in financial difficulties from how 
she was using her account. She wanted to know why other people had managed to get their 
money back, but she couldnt. Our investigator said that other circumstances might be different, and he gave some examples, for instance if we could see the bank had made a 
mistake over the charges.  
Because Miss R and our investigator didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that our service will look at charges applied to Miss Rs account in 
the last six years. Thats what Ive done here. 
And our investigator explained that a court case some years ago means that our service 
cant say that charges for things like unauthorised overdrafts or unpaid items are unfair. I 
have to take account of the relevant law in reaching my decision. And that case also means 
that I cant say that these payments were unfair.
We can check if fees and charges have been applied in line with the terms of the account. I 
have looked at Miss Rs statements, and I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Barclays got this wrong.
Miss R thinks Barclays shouldnt have charged her, because she was in financial difficulties 
and Barclays was just making this worse. We do expect banks to treat customers positively 
and sympathetically once they know about financial difficulties. 
Barclays says that Miss R never told it that she was having financial difficulties. Miss R says 
that Barclays shouldve realised this, because she kept incurring charges. 
If Barclays had realised Miss R was having financial difficulties, then what I wouldve 
expected it to do is to offer to support Miss R, and to notify her of other sources of help. But 
it doesnt have to freeze charges. Its not automatically unfair if Barclays doesnt do that.
I can see that Barclays wrote to Miss R a number of times to say shed incurred charges, to 
offer extra help in managing her account, and to point her to external sources of help. So I 
think that Barclays has offered Miss R the help Id expect to see.
I know Miss R will be disappointed, but I dont agree with her that the charges on her 
account were disproportionate. Ive considered this complaint as a whole, and Im sorry to 
have to tell Miss R that I dont think Barclays has to refund all the charges she has paid in 
the last six years. And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman