DRN-2970704
The complaint
Mrs P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to return a 
refund made into her credit card account in a timely and professional manner.
What happened
Mrs P says she had a refund made to her Amex credit card account at the end of December 
2020 from an insurance company, although her credit card account had been closed by her 
in August that year. Mrs P says she wasnt contacted by Amex when the refund was credited 
to her credit card account, and it was only when she contacted them about this in mid- 
January 2021 that the refund made available to her. Mrs P says Amex then for some 
unknown reason issued two separate final response letters from two separate individuals, 
although no formal complaint had been lodged at that time, which created confusion and 
resulted in unnecessary time spent in sending various correspondence. 
Mrs P wants Amex to apologise and compensation paid for the confusion and inconvenience 
caused. 
Amex says they issued a refund by way of cheque to Mrs P within a few days of hearing 
from her and were in course of issuing a statement to her in any event which would have 
shown the refund from the insurance company. Amex say because Mrs P had mentioned 
some dissatisfaction when she called them, this led to a complaint being raised. While two 
responses regarding the matter were issued, Amex say they contained the same explanation 
over the issue, so it shouldnt have been confusing and feel they have done nothing wrong. 
Mrs P remained unhappy with Amexs actions here and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
She felt Amex had dealt with the refund in a timely manner and there was no evidence to 
suggest they had acted unprofessionally when undertaking their review of the matter. The 
investigator says while two responses to the complaint were issued, both were consistent in 
their approach and therefore she couldnt see why this would have created any confusion. 
The investigator didnt feel any compensation was warranted here. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and Ill explain how I 
have come to my decision. 
I understand it would have been inconvenient for Mrs P to have received a refund to her 
credit card account and not be immediately informed of its receipt. When looking at this 
complaint, and coming to a full and impartial decision, I will consider if Amex acted unfairly in 
the time it took them to deal with the refund made to Mrs Ps credit card account and if they 
acted unreasonably and unprofessionally when dealing with the matter.
Mrs Ps husband, who is acting on her behalf regarding this complaint, has raised a number 
of points with Amex over this matter and while this has proved helpful, I wont be 
commenting on every point he has made as I dont feel its necessary to come to an impartial 
decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything hes said  I have.  
The first thing to say is the refund payment made into Mrs Ps Amex credit card wasnt as a 
result of any error made by Amex, more that the insurance company refunded it incorrectly 
as Mrs P has explained. Its also fair to say that while the account had been closed thats not 
to say payments cant be refunded to it and this is what happened here, rather than as Mr P 
thought that the account had been reopened without any authority. Its also fair to say that 
Amex hadnt been previously informed either by Mrs P or the insurance company these 
funds were being sent, so I cant say they can be held responsible for not informing Mrs P 
when it did arrive - after all Amex would process considerable numbers of inward payments, 
so its reasonable to say they cant be expected to inform all of its customers on their 
immediate arrival  thats done when monthly statements are produced, which happened 
here. 
I say this as I have seen evidence of a statement produced in late January 2021 showing the 
payment in and the refund paid out. What happened here was Mrs P contacted Amex on 15 
January 2021,  before the statement was produced, and a cheque was issued to Mrs P on 
the 19th January 2021. Both Mr and Mrs P feel that Amex should have informed them of the 
arrival of the refund from the insurers on its receipt on the 30th December 2020 and sent 
her, or the insurers, the payment immediately. 
Mr & Mrs P also feel Amex made matters worse by having two individuals dealing with the 
same issue which created unnecessary confusion over this matter. I should point out that its 
not the role of this service to make decisions on the manner in which complaints are 
handled, all I would say is that both final response letters issued by Amex say much the 
same thing when explaining what happened, and I am satisfied that shouldnt have led to 
any unnecessary confusion nor is there any evidence to show them acting unprofessionally 
in their approach to the problem raised by Mrs P. 
While Mrs P may not agree, I dont feel Amex have taken an unreasonable length of time to 
have issued the refund to her given this was made by way of cheque four days after they 
became aware. Although Mrs P feels she has been inconvenienced by her not being 
informed promptly of the arrival of the monies from her insurers, I am satisfied they took 
reasonable steps to refund the payment as soon as Mrs P contacted them. Its also fair to 
say that we all experience some inconvenience from time to time, but that doesnt mean 
compensation is warranted on each occasion and I dont think it is here. 
While Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Amex. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman