DRN-4335254
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him the money he lost after he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
In or around December 2022, Mr M was added, out of the blue, to a group on a well-known 
instant messaging platform regarding investment opportunities. Mr M has said he observed 
what was happening in the group and could see members post details of trades and profits 
they were making. Hes said initially he wasnt convinced by what he saw and was cautious. 
But has said he was tempted after checking the companys website and seeing that there 
were lots of people on the chat room, posting daily trades and wins. Mr M added that he was 
given a one-to-one session and saw how an investment of a couple of hundred pounds, 
quickly converted into £1,000 to £2,000.
Believing everything to be genuine, between 30 December 2022 and 8 January 2023, Mr M 
made five payments from his Barclays account, using his debit card, totalling £14,864.48, to 
crypto currency exchange companies. But unknown to him at the time, Mr M was dealing 
with fraudsters and had sent his payments to accounts the fraudsters controlled. Mr M has 
said he realised hed been scammed when, after asking to make a withdrawal, he was asked 
to make further payments towards taxes.
Mr M raised the matter with Barclays, it looked into Mr Ms complaint and issued its final 
response on 2 February 2023, upholding it in part. In summary, Barclays said it didnt think it 
had effectively warned Mr M about the risks of making the transactions, but it also thought 
Mr M could have carried out more of his own due diligence before making the payments. 
Overall, Barclays thought liability should be shared, so it refunded Mr M half of the money he 
lost (being £7,432.24), along with interest and £200 compensation, which was credited to his 
account on 2 February 2023.
Unhappy that Barclays hadnt refunded him in full, Mr M referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our Investigators looked into things, but didnt think Barclays should refund 
the remaining loss. In summary, it was our Investigators view that there were enough red 
flags that ought to have made Mr M think carefully before going ahead with his payments. 
Our Investigator also said that he didnt consider Barclays had made an error in not raising a 
chargeback claim.
Mr M remained unhappy, he accepted he ought to have done more to verify the firm at the 
beginning and that there were red flags. But he thought Barclays should have prevented the 
payments going ahead and he thought a full refund of the amount he lost would be a fair 
resolution.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Barclays has already accepted a share of liability. It agrees it could have done more to warn 
Mr M about the risks of the payments he was making and so has offered and returned Mr M 
50% of the money he lost. With this in mind the question that I need to decide is whether    
Mr M should fairly be expected to share some responsibility for what happened.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that the remainder of the money he lost should be returned to him. But having 
thought very carefully about Barclays actions, I think its offer to return Mr M half of the 
money he lost, along with interest, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain 
why.
I understand that Mr M has said he looked at the firms website and that the platform he saw 
looked sophisticated. But Im afraid I think Mr M ought to have had more concerns along the 
way about what he saw and was being told. The fraudsters contacted Mr M out of the blue 
and he was added to a messaging application group chat, seemingly without asking to be 
added. I have to question why Mr M wasnt concerned about how the fraudster had obtained 
his contact details and why he was added to a group without asking to be.
Mr M has said he could see others making profits and was shown how a small investment of 
a couple of hundred pounds could quickly yield a seemingly tenfold profit. I think that Mr M 
should have had concerns about these returns. I think they ought reasonably to have 
appeared to him as concerningly unrealistic, not least given the speed at which the 
scammers claimed these profits could be made, this level of return seems improbable to the 
point of being too good to be true.
Mr M wasnt provided with, nor from what Ive seen did he ask for, any documentation 
regarding the investments he was making. I think it would have been prudent to have 
something more formalised to give him comfort that the investments he was entering into 
were legitimate. Especially given I think its questionable that a legitimate investment firm 
would instruct genuine trades through an instant messaging platform.
In and of themselves its arguable that any one of the above factors, in isolation, may not  
have been enough to deter Mr M. But when taken collectively, Im persuaded there was 
enough going on that ought to have given Mr M cause for concern that things were not as 
they seem. Indeed in his submissions to this service Mr M has acknowledged he ought to 
have done more to verify the firm he thought he was investing through.
I dont say any of this to diminish or downplay the fact that Mr M has been the victim of a  
cruel and cynical scam. I sympathise with him for that, but Im not persuaded that it would be 
unreasonable to have expected Mr M to have taken more steps than he did to validate things 
before proceeding.
Ive considered whether the chargeback process was an option for Mr M. A chargeback is a 
voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers. It arbitrates on disputes between a 
customer and a merchant where they havent been able to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme and there are only limited grounds 
on which a chargeback can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are 
deemed invalid.
From the evidence Ive seen the records show the payments went to a genuine  
cryptocurrency exchange firm. The service provided by the firm would be to convert the  
money into cryptocurrency. The merchants Mr M paid provided the service asked for,  
therefore there are no chargeback rights under the scheme - albeit I accept Mr M wouldnt  
have been aware that he was sadly falling victim to a scam at the time he made the  
payments. Overall, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by choosing not to raise chargeback 
claims on Mr Ms behalf.
Finally, I can see that Barclays has already offered Mr M compensation of £200. When 
bearing in mind what Mr M has told us, but taking into account that the main perpetrators of 
what happened are the fraudsters, Im satisfied this amount is fair for the distress and 
inconvenience he likely suffered in this instance.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, he was the victim of a cruel scam and he has my sympathy 
that he has lost money in this way. However, I cant fairly say that Barclays should be 
responsible for refunding him the remainder of his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman