DRN-3094873
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S found damage to garden furniture they stored in their garage. So, they 
contacted Covea to make a claim. Covea declined the claim because it said that as the 
damage was caused by vermin, this wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained, Covea maintained its decision to decline the claim on the 
basis that there was an exclusion in the policy for damage caused by vermin, which was the 
most likely cause of the damage.
So, Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said the damage was most likely caused by vermin and there was an exclusion for this 
in the policy. She said it was reasonable for Covea to decline the claim.
As Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this. I will explain why.
Ive read the policy documents. These said the policy didnt cover loss or damage caused 
by:
wet or dry rot, fungus, insects, vermin, pests, atmospheric or climatic conditions
So, Ive looked at whether it was reasonable to apply this exclusion for Mr S and Mrs Ss 
claim.
When Mrs S first contacted Covea, she said she thought the damage was caused by vermin. 
As there was a policy exclusion for this, Covea declined the claim. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs S then thought the damage might have been caused 
by one or both of their pet dogs because they were able to wander freely around the 
property, including into the garage.
Following this, Covea looked at photos of the damage to see whether it was more likely 
caused by vermin or dogs. It told Mr S and Mrs S:
Thank you for providing the photographs of the damage caused. They have been reviewed 
given the location and type of damage, it does look to be consistent with being chewed by 
rodents but of course, we cannot say this for definite. As you did not see the damage occur, 
you have said your dogs could have been responsible. We would expect to see larger areas 
of damage, scratches and tears, along with much greater removal of the interior of the 
cushions. It is unlikely that your dogs would have gained access to the top part of the chair, 
especially when covered.
All the information provided to us points to damage being caused [by] rodents e.g. mice or 
rats. (as original)
Looking at the photos and Coveas reasons for deciding the damage was more likely caused 
by rodents than dogs, I think it was reasonable for Covea to conclude that vermin was the 
more likely cause of the damage and to decline the claim on that basis.
Mr S and Mrs S have also said the exclusion for vermin wasnt included in the Information 
Product Information Document (IPID). Ive read this document and, as Mr S and Mrs S have 
said, it doesnt refer to this exclusion. At the top of the document it said:
This document provides a summary of the key information relating to this home insurance 
policy. Complete pre-contractual information on the product is provided in the full policy 
documentation, including your schedule of insurance.
So, this explained that the IPID was a summary document and where to find complete 
information about the policy. The IPID also isnt designed to list everything that is or isnt 
covered by the policy and it is for an insurer to decide what is included in this document. I 
dont think the IPID containing no reference to an exclusion for damage by vermin meant 
that Covea needed to deal with the damage. The IPID explained that it needed to be read 
alongside the other policy documents. The policy booklet said there was an exclusion for 
vermin.
Thinking about all the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Covea to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman