DRN-4166956
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (Trading as Cashplus Bank) is 
holding him liable for a transaction which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr C said he didnt authorise a card payment for £70.37 (plus a foreign exchange fee of 
£2.10) made on 6 September 2022. Hes also unhappy that Cashplus sent him numerous 
copies of the same letter outlining the findings of his fraud claim. 
Cashplus said the payment was authorised by way of Mastercards 3D secure verification  
which included a One-Time passcode (OTP) being sent to Mr Cs mobile phone. 
In terms of recovering the funds, Cashplus explained that the Visa Mastercard Chargeback 
rules wouldnt apply. It said as the transaction was made through 3D secure verification, it 
would be deemed that the merchant had done all it could to secure the transaction. 
Cashplus said its records showed its letter was only issued to Mr C once. But it apologised 
for any inconvenience caused. 
Mr C raised a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman. He said Cashplus had provided no 
proof hed authorised the transaction or said who the payee was - and he had no recollection 
of being sent the OTP. Mr C also said his account with Cashplus was now closed  yet he 
was still receiving notifications about the account balance. And he said Cashplus wasnt 
prepared to transfer his direct debits and standing orders to his new bank. 
Mr C wanted Cashplus to reimburse him the disputed transaction  together with the account 
fees hed paid over the last two years. Mr C also wanted Cashplus to pay him £500 for the 
time hed spent pursuing this matter and for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it. In short, she
thought Mr C had authorised the disputed transaction  or consented to someone else 
authorising it on his behalf. She also didnt consider a compensatory award to be warranted. 
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. He wanted to know who the merchant payee was  and what evidence 
there was that Cashplus followed the verification process. 
Mr C was also unhappy that the Investigator hadnt specifically commented on his complaint 
about receiving notifications from Cashplus after his account had been closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for reasons I set
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less
detail than the parties involved. I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this. If
there is a submission Ive not addressed; it isnt because I have ignored the point. It is
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this
complaint  that being whether Cashplus has acted reasonably in concluding Mr C 
authorised the disputed transaction.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
I asked Cashplus for its comments on Mr Cs complaints about receiving notifications after 
his account was closed and that Cashplus obstructed him from transferring his direct debits 
and standing orders to his new bank. Cashplus has said it hasnt had the opportunity to 
consider these complaints. It is obliged the opportunity to do so in the first instance before 
we can make a determination on the matter. And so, Ive not commented on these complaint 
points in this decision.
Turning now to the disputed transaction, Mr C has said he doesnt recall receiving the OTP 
in relation to the disputed payment. But Im satisfied from the technical evidence Cashplus 
has provided (and which has now been provided to Mr C) that the OTP was sent to Mr Cs 
mobile phone when the card transaction was made. To complete this verification process  
the OTP had to be entered before the transaction was allowed to go through. 
I can see that Mr Cs current mobile phone has been registered to his Cashplus account 
since November 2020 and is the number he currently uses. Mr C told our Investigator that 
his mobile phone is password protected and no one else has access to his password, nor is 
it written down anywhere. And so, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that access to Mr Cs 
mobile phone was compromised in any way which allowed the OTP to be accessed by a 
third party. 
It follows that in my judgement, on balance, it is more likely than not that either Mr C 
authorised the disputed transaction by making it himself or authorised another to do so by 
providing them his consent. And so, I wont be asking Cashplus to take any further action in 
this regard. 
This is a difficult message for me to give as I know how strongly Mr C feels about this matter. 
But given the evidence I have and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Cashplus couldve taken any action to 
recover the funds. But as it has explained, the Visa Mastercard Chargeback rules wouldnt 
have succeeded, on the basis of Mr Cs argument that the transaction was unauthorised, 
because of the use of 3D verification. 
In terms of the duplicate letters being sent to Mr C  its unclear how this occurred. Cashplus 
apologised to Mr C for the duplicate letters and said its records only showed the letter being 
sent out once, so it had fed the issue back to the relevant team. I can understand Mr Cs 
frustration here, but this has been acknowledged and apologised for by Cashplus. And so, I 
dont think Cashplus needs to do anything more in these circumstances to put things right. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman