DRN-3188323
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W are business partners. They complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc regarding the management of their loan accounts.
What happened
In August 2007 the partners approached NatWest for finance for a property development. 
The lending was agreed in October 2007. But the partners say the banks funding was 
delayed, so the development wasnt finished by the time the loans expired in June 2009, and 
the bank decided to mothball the project until the market improved. The bank transferred 
the management of the partners accounts to the banks Global Restructuring Group (GRG) 
in October 2009.
Difficulties continued and in August 2011 the bank issued a formal demand for repayment. In 
September 2011, LPA receivers were appointed who then sold the properties which had 
been given as security for the lending.
The partners referred their current complaint to us in November 2019, following the banks 
consideration of their case under the voluntary GRG review scheme. The bank had issued 
its conclusions under that scheme in August 2019, after its initial findings had also been 
considered by the Independent Third Party, which was the appeal stage of the scheme.
I decided that the Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt consider some parts of the 
partners complaint, as they were previously excluded by this service following an earlier 
complaint, referred to us in 2011. 
These are the parts of the partners current complaint that we have considered:
The decision to transfer the partners accounts to the GRG was unreasonable and 
inadequately communicated.
The bank acted unreasonably by intimating that, unless the complainants were able 
to repay all funds loaned immediately, it would appoint LPA receivers.
The banks conduct was pursuant to its internal policy and/or deliberate plan of action 
to exploit and appropriate for itself the property assets and value of property assets 
of SME customers during the period 2008-2013, in order to generate profit for GRG 
and reduce the bank's exposure to the property sector.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that the bank hadnt 
acted unfairly. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
The bank is entitled to decide how it can best manage accounts and organise its 
staff, as long as it treats customers fairly and reasonably. By August 2009, the 
partners loan facilities had mostly expired and were in default, so NatWest did have 
reason to transfer the relationship to GRG. The bank told the partners when and why 
the change in the management of accounts was taking place. 
In February 2011 the bank warned the partners that if matters relating to the 
development couldnt be resolved that month, then formal demand letters would be 
issued and the bank would look to protect its security. A formal demand was issued 
in March 2011. A consolidation loan was then put in place but in August 2011, the 
bank decided that the terms of that agreement had been breached and, in 
September 2011, the LPA receivers were appointed. In the investigators view, the 
bank was within its rights to consider whatever action it thought best to have the 
borrowing repaid. He couldnt see that the bank was wrong in intimating that unless a 
strategy was agreed for the borrowing to be repaid, an LPA Receiver would be 
appointed.
The bank may have generally wanted to reduce its exposure to the property sector, 
but that wasnt the key motivation for its decisions in this case. The banks notes from 
the summer of 2011 show that it had concluded that there would be a high risk in 
continuing with the project, because of trust issues and a lack of comfort in the 
customers ability to complete the development. The bank thought the only way to 
protect its position  to limit its losses  was to appoint receivers.
The partners disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Their representative drew 
attention to a previous submission in which the partners said the bank gave them no proper 
justification or explanation for their banking arrangements being transferred to GRG. 
In addition, the representative made a number of points about events related to other parts 
of the partners complaint  largely about events before the summer of 2011. As explained 
above, Ive already decided that this service shouldnt consider those other parts of the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell the partners that Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
I agree with the investigator that the bank was entitled to decide on its own management 
arrangements for the partners accounts, as long as it treated its customers fairly. The 
lending had expired and the partners faced business difficulties, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to move the management of the accounts to a specialist unit. 
From the banks records, Im satisfied that NatWest informed the partners about the new 
arrangements, in writing and in a meeting, and that it gave them the reasons for moving the 
accounts. The partners were told that it was because the loans were not being repaid and 
the bank was unclear about the cost and completion of the development project. I dont think 
the bank acted unfairly when it transferred the partners accounts to GRG.
The partners feel it was unfair for the bank to imply that it would appoint LPA receivers. But 
with the lending in default and NatWest concerned that the development project wouldnt be 
completed, it was in my view reasonable for the bank to consider relying on its security. I 
dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of NatWest to tell the partners that unless a 
satisfactory way forward could be found, it might seek to realise its security. Thats what 
happened in the end, and I think the bank acted fairly in informing the customers when it was 
first considered.As regards the banks general conduct regarding GRG and its lending strategy, this service 
determines each complaint on its individual circumstances, so the evidence of failings by 
GRG in other cases cannot override the available evidence about the circumstances of this 
case. Its clear from the difficulties faced by the development project and from the banks 
internal notes that NatWests actions in pursuing its security were taken in order to reduce its 
losses on the lending. I think the bank was entitled to do that and I dont think it acted 
unreasonably.
I realise that the partners will be very disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the 
strength of their feelings about their complaint. But I dont think the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in respect of the complaint points considered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman