DRN-1747566
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is that he was misled about the amount of interest he was charged by Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) 
purchase.
What happened
BNPL allows consumers to pay up to twelve months later for a purchase. The purchase cost 
is held separately from their main credit account and does not attract minimum payments 
during the period. If the purchase cost is fully paid by the end of the period, then no interest 
is charged. But if some of the cost remains outstanding, then the outstanding amount and 
interest is charged to the consumers main credit account. 
Briefly, the twelve month period for Mr Ts BNPL purchase ended on 11 January 2019. On 
10 January, Mr T called Very to discuss payment. He then made a partial payment and 
understood that interest for the whole period would only be charged on the remaining 
amount. Very charged more interest than Mr T expected. Mr T raised this with Very and was 
told the interest would be removed. But Very wrote to him in February and said it would not 
be. Mr T was unhappy and raised a complaint. This was not upheld by Very.
 
The investigator found that the interest had been charged fairly and reasonably. But, she felt 
that Mr T had been unfairly told the interest would be removed. She recommended the 
business pay Mr T compensation of £100. 
Very offered £100 to resolve the complaint. Mr T did not accept the outcome and the case 
has passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached a similar outcome to the investigator and I have decided to 
partly uphold the complaint. Whilst I may not have commented separately on each individual 
point raised by Mr T, I want to assure him that Ive thought about what he has said and how 
it fits in to the overall complaint. 
The interest
In their terms and conditions, Very said that payments on a BNPL purchase would start to 
reduce the balance and the interest which could be incurred. They said that interest would 
be calculated daily and compounded every 28 days. Therefore, making earlier payments 
during the period would lower the balance and decrease the amount of interest incurred. 
Very issued a statement in November 2018 and estimated the interest at £385.59. They said 
to avoid this, Mr T needed to pay the full purchase price before 11 January 2019. I have 
listened to the call recording from 10 January and did not hear that partial payment was 
discussed. The call handler did say the only way to avoid paying the interest of £385.59 was 
to pay the full amount. The figures discussed were in line with what was charged.  
Very reasonably explained that the full amount needed to be paid to avoid the interest of 
£385.59. Making a partial payment earlier in the period could have reduced this, but by the 
last day of the period, interest had already accrued. I dont think the information was 
misleading and therefore interest was applied correctly. 
The outstanding purchase cost and interest was charged to Mr Ts main credit account. It 
formed part of the balance and attracted interest. This was in Verys terms and conditions. In 
the call on 10 January 2019, Mr T asked whether the interest would double up or be 
duplicated. The call handler said it wouldnt. I do not think this was misleading as the call 
handler was discussing the lump sum at the end of the BNPL period and not the interest on 
Mr Ts main credit account. The lump sum would only be charged once and therefore I think 
the information provided was fair and reasonable.
 
Mr T is also concerned he was told the interest charge would be removed. I have also 
listened to this call recording. The call handler misunderstood and believed the full amount 
had been paid but that the second payment had not been allocated to the BNPL purchase. 
On this basis, she explained that the interest would be removed. The second payment was 
actually made to cover the minimum amount on Mr Ts main credit account. 
The call handler had the account information and could see the total of the two payments did 
not meet the full cost of the BNPL purchase. Very therefore shouldnt have given the wrong 
information to Mr T. Also, after the call, Mr T was not contacted within the timeframe he 
expected. In this respect, Very failed to treat Mr T fairly. 
Verys response
 
By complaining and requesting call recordings, Mr T was trying to understand the 
information he had been given about his BNPL purchase. When responding to Mr Ts 
complaint Very did not address the issue that he had been wrongly told the interest would be 
removed. This was not specifically referred to by Mr T in his complaint. But it relates to the 
case and it would have been apparent on investigation how this contributed to Mr Ts 
confusion.  
Mr T requested the call recordings in September 2019 but did not receive them. Again, this 
added to Mr Ts frustration. Mr T has now received the recordings from our investigator but 
remains unhappy and I dont think receiving them sooner would have avoided the current 
situation. Having listened to the recordings, I am satisfied they represent the full 
conversations. 
During the complaint process, interest has been accruing on Mr Ts credit account and he is 
unhappy about this. Generally, Mr T would be expected to take reasonable steps to avoid or 
limit further loss after Very corrected what it had told him about removing the interest. It was 
an option for Mr T to pay the balance and this would have been a reasonable step in 
reducing the impact. He could then have looked to resolve his complaint. 
Putting things rightMr T was told the interest would be removed and he was left disappointed when the bank 
then informed him it would not be. When trying to understand, his frustrations were added to 
by Verys response. I think it is fair and reasonable that Very pay compensation of £100 to 
Mr T for this. But he is most upset with being charged more interest than he expected. Ive 
not upheld this aspect and make no further award. 
 
My final decision
Very unfairly told Mr T that the interest would be removed. Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (trading as Very) have offered to pay £100 compensation and this is fair and 
reasonable in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman