DRN-2904139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Accord Mortgages Limited wouldnt offer them additional lending 
on their mortgage on an interest only basis.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Accord. At the start of 2020 they paid a large amount off 
the mortgage with a lump sum. Later that month they enquired about extending it by an 
additional £50,000. They said this was to help their son with a deposit for a flat. 
Accord declined their request for extra borrowing. It said it has a policy not to lend on an 
interest only basis to anyone thats retired. However it said it could increase the mortgage on 
a repayment basis instead, but this would increase Mr and Mrs Cs monthly payments. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They said if theyd known they wouldnt be able to 
increase their mortgage, they wouldnt have made a big repayment and wouldve used that 
money to help their son instead. They also felt they were being discriminated against due to 
their age. They made a complaint. 
Accord didnt uphold their complaint. It said its policy is not to lend on an interest only basis 
to those who are retired, due to the risks involved. So it wouldnt be able to offer the lending 
on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs C felt it was unfair the decision had been made based on their age rather than 
on whether they could afford to repay the lending. They also thought Accord should have 
warned them that they wouldnt be able to take on additional lending when they made the 
lump sum payment at the start of the year, as they could have used this money to help their 
son out instead of paying off their mortgage. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Accord had provided 
information to show why it had decided not to take on the risk of lending interest only 
mortgages to those who are retired. She said she was satisfied that it had shown it had 
based its decision on a reliable information rather than just an assumption about age. So she 
was satisfied it had acted fairly and reasonably in deciding not to lend to them. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said theyd been able to get an interest only mortgage with 
a different bank, so didnt think its fair Accord wouldnt lend to them. They asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Accord has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. That 
includes thinking about what a Court would likely decide if Mr and Mrs C were to make a 
claim under the Equality Act 2010  the relevant provisions of which Ive set out below.
In 2012 the part of the Act protecting against age discrimination came into force, which 
prohibited service providers from refusing to provide services, or treating customers 
differently, due to their age. However there was an exemption to this for providers of 
financial services. This said that as long as financial companies had made a risk assessment 
based on relevant information from a reliable source, then it could make decisions based on 
the age of its customers. 
In order to decide if Accord can rely on this exemption, I need to consider whether it based 
its decision to not offer interest only mortgages to those who are retired, on relevant 
information from a reliable source. Accord has provided detailed information that shows it 
has assessed the risk and has drawn from reliable sources when doing this. This information 
is commercially sensitive, so Im not able to share the details here but Im satisfied that its 
carefully considered the risk potentially presented by older borrowers and compared those 
on its books with the risk presented across the industry more generally. In so doing, its also 
considered its own lending appetite and drawn parameters around whom its prepared to 
lend to  which it is entitled to do. I want to assure Mr and Mrs C that the information 
presented to me around the risk assessment conducted is detailed and I have carefully 
considered it when reaching my decision. And Im satisfied that Accord have done enough to 
show me it can fairly rely on the exemption in this case
It isnt the role of this service to tell a bank who it should lend to and what risks it should take 
on. But to consider if it has acted fairly in the particular circumstances of the case in 
question. In this case, I think Accord has done enough to show it can rely on the exemption 
in the Equality Act in declining to offer an interest only mortgage to Mr and Mrs C. And Im 
satisfied that its shown me that it would treat all its customers in Mr and Mrs Cs position in 
the same way. So overall, I think its treated Mr and Mrs C fairly and reasonably in its 
decision-making process. 
I understand its particularly frustrating for Mr and Mrs C as they paid a large lump sum 
towards their mortgage, which they may have used differently if theyd known about the 
lending limitations earlier. However I dont agree Accord did anything wrong by not telling 
them about this when they paid the lump sum. Accord wouldnt have known their intentions 
to apply for additional lending at that point. So it would have had no reason to believe this 
information was relevant to their decision to pay off a large amount of their mortgage. So I 
dont think it acted unfairly by not making this information clearer at that stage. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that theyve been able to take out an interest only mortgage with a 
different bank, which shows Accord has acted unreasonably. Banks will all make their own 
decisions about whom they lend to, based on different risks they are willing to take on. Just 
because one bank agrees to lend, this isnt enough for me to say the decision of another 
bank is unfair. In this decision, Ive looked at Accords actions and Im satisfied that its acted 
fairly and in line with the exemption under the relevant law. So I wont ask it to do anything 
differently. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr and Mrs C but I hope Ive reassured them why Ive 
reached these conclusions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman