DRN-4039072
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint against Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited (Chase de 
Vere) is about the advice they gave her in 2000 to invest in an estate planning bond.
What happened
Chase de Vere advised Mrs S in 2000 to invest approximately £150,000 in an estate 
planning bond. The investment was made via a discounted gift trust. The bond was set up to 
provide a monthly income of £631.70 through a 5% per annum withdrawal. 
Mrs S received continuous monthly payments of £631.70 until May 2021 when the balance
on the bond reduced to zero.
Mrs S complained to Chase de Vere later in 2021 that the advice they gave her in
2000 had been unsuitable. Mrs S was represented by a claims manager who complained on
her behalf that:
The nature of the estate planning bond meant it was unsuitable for Mrs S. 
The adviser failed to discuss more suitable and more flexible alternatives that would 
have better met Mrs Ss objective to mitigate inheritance tax (IHT).
Chase de Veres advice failed to ensure that Mrs S retained sufficient emergency funds.
Mrs S was an inexperienced investor, wholly reliant on the adviser for suitable advice. 
She had recently lost her husband and the adviser did not take account of this extreme 
change of circumstances in advising a vulnerable client.
Chase de Vere did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. When Mrs S came to our service, Chase
de Vere said her complaint had been made outside the relevant time limits and they did not
consent to us looking into it. In a decision in December 2022, I said that I thought Mrs S was 
first aware she had cause to complain in 2021 after payments from the bond had ended. 
So, I was satisfied that she had made her complaint in time, and it was one that our service 
should look at.
Our investigator looked into the merits of Mrs Ss complaint and thought the estate planning 
bond had been a suitable recommendation for her. He said the bond met Mrs Ss objectives 
and she had benefited from a reduction in her IHT liability. He didnt think the bond had been 
mis-sold and so didnt ask Chase de Vere to take any further action. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. Her representative said that whilst there was 
some limited discussion with Mrs S about alternatives, the clear and obvious alternative was 
overlooked by the adviser. It said Chase de Vere should have advised Mrs S to seek legal 
advice and given that it was such a short time after her husbands passing, his will could 
have been varied so that assets up to the available nil rate band were left to a discretionary 
trust of which Mrs S and her children were all potential beneficiaries. The trust could have 
been constituted with existing investments, avoiding the need for any disturbance at a time 
when Mrs S was clearly vulnerable. It would have come at minimal cost and avoided Mrs S 
having any IHT liability.       
As Mrs S has disagreed with our investigators view, I have been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules say that a business needs to get enough information from a customer to make 
sure a recommendation meets their objectives. So, before making their recommendations, 
Chase de Vere should have taken account of Mrs Ss financial situation, her purpose in 
investing and attitude to risk, and how long she wanted to invest for.
Ive seen copies of the financial planning analysis that Chase de Veres adviser completed 
as part of his meeting with Mrs S in June 2000 and the summary of recommendations he 
sent her in August 2000.
At the time of the advice, Mrs S was in her early 70s, had recently been widowed and had no 
financial dependants. She was retired and had an estimated annual income of about 
£16,100 from pensions and investments. Mrs S had a variety of existing investments  
approximately £150,000 in unit trusts, £65,000 in investment bonds, £9,000 in a TESSA, and 
building society deposits of about £47,000. 
Mrs Ss objective was to invest to provide a regular income, along with the potential for 
limited capital growth, and mitigate a potentially large IHT liability. The value of her estate 
was about £400,000, which would have meant an IHT liability of approximately £66,000. 
Mrs S was looking to invest over the medium term (5 to 10 years).  
Chase de Vere recommended that Mrs S encash £150,000 of her existing investments and 
invest in an estate planning bond, in conjunction with an appropriate trust. The adviser said 
the bond would provide Mrs S with an income and aimed to increase the value of her 
investment over the medium to long term. It would provide an immediate reduction in her IHT 
liability of approximately 30% of the amount invested and after seven years the entire value 
of the investment would fall outside her estate, reducing her potential IHT liability to as little 
as £6,400. 
I think Chase de Veres recommendation was consistent with Mrs Ss investment objective of 
generating a regular income while also mitigating her potential IHT liability. Based on what 
Ive seen I think it was also affordable for Mrs S, given her circumstances at the time and the 
fact that the funds were being taken from existing investments. She would lose access to her 
capital but from what Ive seen I think she understood that and was prepared to accept it in 
order to meet her objectives.
According to the paperwork, Mrs Ss attitude to risk was assessed as balanced. The money 
she was putting into the estate planning bond would be spread across three different funds 
and, from what Ive seen, I think the proposed investments were in line with her attitude to 
risk. 
The £150,000 Mrs S put into the estate planning bond represented about 55% of her 
investable assets. She had a regular income which covered her expenditure and, even after 
making the investment, retained over £40,000 in cash based savings and other readily 
available funds to cover any emergencies that might arise. So, I think Mrs S had the capacity to absorb some losses and it was not unreasonable for Chase de Vere to recommend the 
investments they did, given Mrs Ss objectives. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Ss investment experience and her circumstances at the time. 
Chase de Vere have said that they had been providing advice to Mrs S and her late husband 
for over three years on a variety of equity based investments and that the family had held 
investments for many years before that. Based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely that 
Mrs S did have some knowledge and experience of investing and would have understood 
the risks involved. 
Mrs Ss representative has said she was vulnerable at the time of the advice as her husband 
had sadly passed away in May 2000. Mrs Ss meeting with Chase de Vere took place on 
7 June 2000. Although this was just a short time after Mrs Ss husband had died, the adviser 
didnt send his recommendations until 16 August 2000 and Mrs S invested in the estate 
planning bond in September 2000. Overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Mrs S 
was not in a position to discuss her investment needs and Im not persuaded that she was 
pressured or rushed into making a decision to invest in the estate planning bond. 
Its clear from the recommendation letter that the adviser considered a number of other 
options for reducing Mrs Ss IHT liability before recommending the estate planning bond. 
I note however that Mrs Ss representative believes another obvious alternative was 
overlooked by the adviser.  
I cant be sure which, if any, of the alternative options were discussed by the adviser in his 
meeting with Mrs S. But, even if they were not discussed with her, it would not change my 
findings on the suitability of the advice Mrs S was given. Although there might have been 
other suitable options available, Im satisfied that the advice Chase de Vere gave to Mrs S 
was suitable for her needs. 
Overall, I think Chase de Vere provided Mrs S with suitable advice. Im also satisfied that 
they gave her sufficiently clear information about the investment they recommended to 
enable her to make an informed decision. I realise this will be a disappointing decision for 
Mrs S, but I wont be upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint 
against Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman