DRN-3231612
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed over 100,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be showing considerable signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr M reported faults with his car a little later 
than six months after his agreement started so the relevant legislation says its for him to 
demonstrate the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied.
I think the problem with the radio and the need to replace the battery were issues a 
reasonable person might expect on a car of this age and mileage and are examples of wear 
and tear that it would not be fair to hold Moneybarn responsible for.
An MOT was completed on the car shortly before the sale. So, Im persuaded the tyres and 
brakes would have been in a roadworthy state at that time and I think the same applies to 
the coil spring.
The other issues pertain to a fault with an injector. The independent engineer who is an 
expert in these matters has explained that:
poor failed repairs have been carried out in regard to the removal of injector 4. This has 
resulted in a metal bar being welded onto the retaining clamp, which is allowing exhaust 
gases to emit from this location. It was also noted that there is oil and fuel leaking from this 
area.
I can understand that Mr M will be upset at the experts finding that this is unlikely to have 
been the state of the car when it was supplied to him. Hes explained that the car hasnt had 
any work done to it. But, as he reported the issue after hed had the car for some time and 
had completed about 2,000 miles I think the onus is on him to demonstrate the fault was 
present from the beginning. I can therefore understand the experts view that on the 
evidence presented it is more likely than not that the injector problem has happened 
subsequently.
I dont therefore think it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman