DRN-2352546
The complaint
Mrs R and the estate of Mr R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a loan. Nationwide 
doesnt now know how the loan and PPI policy were sold. Mrs R says they applied for these 
in branch and I think this is most likely to have been the case.
The PPI policy would have covered Mr and Mrs Rs loan repayments if Mr R was unable to 
work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The cost of the policy was £28.15 a 
month and gave up to 12 months cover if Mr R became unemployed and up to 24 months if 
he was off work because of an accident or sickness. The policy also provided life cover for 
Mr R. The policy didnt attract interest and could be cancelled by either party with notice 
without penalty. 
At the time, Mr R was employed as a plant manager. Mrs R has told us he was entitled to 
Death-in-Service and redundancy benefits from his employer. Mr R wasnt entitled to sick 
pay and, other than Mrs Rs income, they didnt have any other means of repaying their loan 
should Mr R be unable to work. Mrs R has said Mr R was in good health at the time of the 
sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2000.
Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial 
representations on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling PPI 
complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have taken out 
the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the most 
common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. The 
common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should have told Mr and Mrs R 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs R and the estate of Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs R and the estate of 
Mr Rs complaint.
This sale took place in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2000. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/Direct Mail 
and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.
 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
Nationwide doesnt still have any paperwork from the time of this sale. But this isnt that 
surprising  businesses arent required to keep this sort of information for this length of time. However, Nationwide has provided a sample copy of the type of loan agreement that Mr and 
Mrs R would have signed in 1996. And I can see that the monthly cost of the PPI policy is 
shown separately to that of the loan on this agreement and clearly stated as being optional. 
So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during sales like this one. And from what we know 
about how Nationwide normally sold these policies at around this time, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mr R was unable to work through accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have 
taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs 
representative has raised a number of general points in regards to the requirements on a 
business when providing information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI 
complaints, like Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs. Ive considered these carefully and 
summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have explained the 
low claims ratio  what Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs R about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them. Im not persuaded by Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representatives views on this. The duty 
of utmost good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to 
disclose material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain 
what a court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the 
insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions in the way Mrs R and the estate of Mr R has suggested. And 
taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice 
applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide 
ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs R. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs R suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done 
things properly. 
Mrs R says they would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs R thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R have suffered any loss 
or detriment. 
I think its most likely that the information Mr and Mrs R were given about the cost was clear. 
But I think the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefits, limitations 
and exclusions, most likely wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R 
expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr R knew about or ought to 
have known about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr R wasnt a 
permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude that the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr R was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable 
to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr R would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr R didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think 
they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence 
to support that claim.
Mrs R says the policy wasnt suitable because Mr R wouldnt have been able to make a 
claim after the age of 65. But as this was a regular premium policy, Mr R could have 
cancelled the policy then, so I dont think any restriction on the age at which he could have 
made a claim would have made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R at the time of the 
sale.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them 
manage the consequences were Mr R made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI 
complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should 
be presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to 
outweigh the presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional 
circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs R found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. Mrs R believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that they would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R and the estate of Mr R in the position they would 
have been in if Mr and Mrs R had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should pay Mrs R and the estate of Mr R 
compensation, as that would put them in a better position than they would have been in if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs representative says a 
court might take if it were to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to 
Mr and Mrs R and about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Nationwide 
had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my 
conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs R and the estate 
of Mr R in a better position than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman