DRN-4103015
The complaint
Ms A complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled her 
insurance and is holding her liable for a claim from a third party, under her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In September 2022 Ms A was contacted by Watford following contact from a third-party 
claiming that her vehicle had been involved in a collision. Ms A says Watford received a 
photo of her car from the third-party that she thinks has been altered to show damage. She 
also says the witness report provided could be from a friend of the third-party. Ms A says 
that no-one with permission to drive her car was involved in this incident. 
Watford says Ms A told it shed given her cousin permission to drive her car. And that he 
was driving it on the day of the accident. In its complaint response it says she told it he lived 
abroad, and she was unsure if hed arranged insurance to drive the car. Watford says Ms A 
was asked to provide proof her cousin had insurance, which it didnt receive. It says she also 
failed to cooperate to allow an inspection of her car for around three months. 
Watford says it has a witness statement identifying Ms As car and putting the driver of her 
car at fault for a collision with the third-partys vehicle. It says its policy doesnt cover 
unnamed drivers and so it wasnt indemnifying Ms A for the claim against her. Watford said it 
would seek to recover its costs. It confirmed it was cancelling Ms As policy for breaching her 
policy terms.
Watford says Ms A changed her account of who was driving in mid-December 2022. It says 
she told it her husband had been driving. She advised that shed made this mistake as she 
was a busy mother. Watford says that based on the evidence it wouldnt succeed if it 
defended the claim in court. This is because Ms A altered her story after several months, 
had delayed its inspection of the damage, which couldve allowed for any damage to be 
repaired, and there was an independent witness confirming the driver of Ms As car was at 
fault.
Ms A thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She says Ms As policy terms dont provide cover if her car is being 
driven by a person not shown on her certificate of motor insurance. She didnt think Watford 
acted unfairly to cancel the policy as Ms A had breached the terms of her contract. 
Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable that Ms A changed her account of who was 
driving. Particularly as it took her over three months to do so. She thought the engineers 
report of the damage identified the possibility that Ms As vehicle had been involved in a 
collision. She says the witness statement and photo of Ms As car provided by the third-party 
indicated her car was involved in the accident, and the driver of her car was likely to be the 
at-fault party. 
Ms A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ms As complaint. Let me explain. 
The terms of Ms As policy say:
Section 15 - General Exclusions Applying to the Whole Policy
This Policy does not cover the following:
1. Any injury, loss or damage occurring while Your Car is being:
a) driven by or is in the charge of any person not shown on Your Certificate of Motor 
Insurance
I can see from the records provided that when Watford contacted Ms A about the incident, at 
the beginning of September 2022, she told it her cousin had been driving. I can see that Ms 
A has a named driver on her policy. She confirms this is her husband. No-one else is listed 
on the certificate of insurance. 
The records and copy correspondence between Watford and Ms A, show she was asked to 
provide proof of her cousins temporary insurance to drive her car. This wasnt provided. 
However, Ms A did say her cousin told her he hadnt been involved in an accident when 
driving her car. 
In mid-December 2022 Ms A told Watford it was her husband that was driving on the day of 
the alleged accident. He confirmed he wasnt involved in a collision. I acknowledge Ms As 
comments that she made a mistake when saying her cousin was driving. She emphasised 
that she is a busy mother. 
I acknowledge what Ms A says. But it took her over three and a half months to tell Watford it 
was her husband that was driving on the day of the claim. In these circumstances, given the 
long delay in changing her account of events, I dont think its unreasonable for Watford to 
rely on Ms As original account of who was driving.  
This means that as Ms A told Watford her cousin was driving, there is no cover provided 
under her policy for the claim made by the third-party.
The records show Ms A was contacted on a number of occasions by Watford to arrange an 
inspection of her car. Its requests began shortly after it first contacted her about the claim. 
The records show that Ms A didnt cooperate in order to arrange an inspection. This delayed 
an engineer attending until the end of December 2022. The claim records say Ms A was 
concerned that pre-existing damage on her car could mistakenly be related to this incident. I 
understand this is why she didnt agree to an earlier appointment. 
Watfords terms, under the heading General Conditions Applying to the Whole Policy say:
You must cooperate fully with Us on all matters concerning the handling and settlement of 
any claim. If You do not cooperate with Us, We may cancel Your Policy and/or refuse to deal 
with Your claim.This term is clear. Ms A must cooperate fully with Watford in relation to the handling of a 
claim. I dont think she did this. This is evidenced by her failure to obtain proof her cousin 
had insurance. Also, her failure to confirm who was driving the car for over three months. In 
addition, she delayed an inspection of her car, until over three and a half months after being 
made aware of the third-partys claim.
Based on this evidence I dont think Watford acted unreasonably when cancelling Ms As 
policy. 
I acknowledge Ms As comments that the photo provided by the third-party showing damage 
to her cars bumper has been altered. Also, that the engineers report doesnt show that 
there was damage linked to this incident. Or that a recent repair had been carried out. But I 
havent seen evidence that clearly shows the photo was altered. And I dont think the report 
shows her car wasnt involved in the incident as described by the third-party. 
Ms As policy terms, under the section How Your claims are settled say:
We, as Your insurer, shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and 
to instruct the solicitors of Our choice to act for You in any proceedings. In circumstances 
where it is considered appropriate We will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered 
under this Policy, on behalf of You or any person claiming Indemnity under the Policy. Such 
admissions may be made prior to or after the commencement of proceedings in relation to 
any event likely to give rise to a claim under the Policy.
This is a common term used by insurers. It essentially means its for the insurer to decide 
how best to deal with a claim. This doesnt mean the insurer can do whatever it wants. We 
still expect it to treat its customers fairly. 
Watford says that based on the evidence and accident circumstances described, it has no 
alternative but to accept responsibility for the incident. I note its comments that any 
argument it might have had has been weakened by Ms As changing testimony and her 
delay in allowing an inspection of her car. It says the third-party could argue this was to allow 
repairs to take place. Watford didnt think it would win the court case, so it acted to minimise 
the costs involved. 
I think the reasons Watford gave for accepting liability on Ms As behalf are reasonable. The 
action it took is in line with its policy terms. So, I dont think it behaved unfairly here. Watford 
says it will look to recover its costs. It has an obligation to deal with the third-partys claim 
under the requirements of the Road Traffic Act (1988). But as its shown that there was no 
cover under Ms As policy in these circumstances, its able to pursue Ms A for its costs. 
In summary, although I accept Ms A has strong views about this matter, I think Watford has 
shown it behaved reasonably and in line with its policy terms in taking the action it did. So, I 
cant fairly ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman