DRN-2780989
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lifesearch Partners Limited mis-sold an accident, sickness and 
redundancy policy to him. He felt that his needs were not properly assessed and that there 
was no justification for recommending a 10 year term. He complains too that he was 
advised to cancel the policy that he had at that time.
What happened
In September 2011 Mr S was sold the insurance policy. For accident and sickness the policy
had a 10 year term and a monthly benefit of £1500.
Mr S made a claim in 2015 as he was unable to work due to his mental health. He hasnt yet 
returned to work and believes that the 10 year term was an unsuitable recommendation.
Our investigator considered the sale of the policy but didnt believe that it had been mis-
sold. Mr S appealed so the matter was passed to me to consider afresh. I issued a 
provisional decision on 29 March 2021. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My consideration has included all the detailed points that Mr S has made during our
investigation of his complaint and in response to the investigators view. However Ive
focused on the crux of the matter  whether the policy was mis-sold. I recognise that Mr S
will be disappointed with my decision but I dont uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully to the calls Mr S had with Lifesearchs adviser  Ill call her L. I dont
intend to detail everything that was said as Mr S has recently heard the recordings. Briefly
though in the first call Mr S explained that he was looking for redundancy cover but L
advised that many insurers had stopped selling standalone polices and offered to look for an
income protection policy with redundancy cover. She established how much Mr S was willing
to pay. L did say that if Mr S wanted to send her the paperwork for his existing policy she
could look through it and see what he was covered for, but Mr S didnt send the policy over.
L called back the same day and explained a quote she had found. I dont find the fact that L 
got back to him expediently is evidence that she failed to assess his needs. She had taken
into account their discussion about levels of cover - Mr S wanted approximately £1500 of
cover monthly and a premium of around £50. I accept Mr Ss point that he would have paid
more for greater cover, but Im not persuaded that L was wrong in trying to find a policy that
matched what Mr S had said he was willing to pay.
L found a policy that offered redundancy cover with a short deferred period and 12 months
benefit. The sickness and accident benefit of £1500 would be payable for the whole term at
a premium of £50.36 - which was guaranteed throughout the 10 year term. This provided
the redundancy cover that Mr S was seeking but sickness and accident cover too.
Mr Ss existing mortgage protection policy would pay £720 per month in the event of
incapacity due to ill health. L explained in the first call that this would need to be replaced if
he took the new policy out because of benefit limitations. She had found life cover for the
mortgage term too and explained to Mr S how much this would be. When asked how it all
sounded Mr S Mr S said ok but asked for all the information to be sent to him  this was
sensible in my view. It gave Mr S the opportunity to check that the recommendations were
right for him. And if he felt that they were Ls advice to replace the policy he had in place was
sensible for the reason she gave.
Indexation wasnt included, but I dont find that this made the recommendation unsuitable.
The documentation showed that his policy was designed to be flexible and the cover level
could be changed to inflation linked if Mr S required.
The life policy L found didnt include critical illness cover. Mr S made it clear that sickness
cover wasnt a priority for him and he wanted to keep the premiums under £50. So I dont
find that the recommendation of life cover for the term of the mortgage was unsuitable. Life
cover with critical illness would have been preferable and would have matched what Mr S
already had. Im not persuaded on the evidence that he would have wanted to pay
substantially more at that time for critical illness cover, it wasnt a priority that he identified.
Nevertheless I think L should have drawn to Mr Ss attention that the recommendation she
was making was without critical illness cover. Ill come back to this point.
I dont agree with Mr Ss argument that L didnt assess his needs properly. L established
Mr Ss demands and needs and Im satisfied that she took reasonable care to ensure that
the policy she recommended was suitable, taking into account its level of cover and cost. I
find that the recommendation L made was in accordance with Mr Ss requirements. Although
Mr S said he only wanted the redundancy cover short term, I accept that L could have
recommended a longer term for the sickness and accident cover. But that would have been
at a higher premium and wouldnt have accorded with Mr Ss requirements at the time.
Although in his online enquiry Mr S did request a policy to retirement age, this wasnt
repeated to L when she took the details from him during their calls. Indeed it was clear that
Mr Ss concern was redundancy cover. L said shed make sure shed prioritise that for him.
L sent Mr S an email confirming the details of the policy for him to consider. Im satisfied that
the 10 year term for the income protection was clear as were the options to cancel. Mr S
called back to discuss and confirmed hed like to proceed.
Ive no doubt that when Mr S took the policy out he was unaware that he would need to
make a claim in 2015. Indeed he said to L that he wasnt too concerned about sickness
cover. Had he been able to look into the future no doubt he wouldnt have taken a policy with
a 10 year term. But that doesnt mean that L was wrong to recommend the policy she did. It
did meet the needs that Mr S had explained  in particular it gave him the redundancy cover
that he was seeking. His existing policy didnt offer that. In addition the monthly sickness
benefit was far greater than that offered by the policy in force at the time. Mr S has had the 
benefit of that.
Im satisfied too that in accordance with the regulatory requirements at the time the policy
was explained to him. Mr S chose to accept the recommendations and his applications were
accepted by the insurers who sent policy documents outlining both the term of the policies
and Mr Ss right to cancel. As indicated above I find a life policy with critical illness would
have been a better policy for Mr S but as this would have been at least £16 more expensive,
and given this wasnt a priority, I cant now say that Mr S would have taken this cover if
offered. But as Mr S hasnt had to make a critical illness claim there is no loss to him at
present, but a notional saving. And of course it is still open to Mr S to make enquiries with
regard to taking out critical illness cover today, should he wish to.I recognise that this is a very worrying time for Mr S now the end of the 10 year term is
looming, but that is not evidence that the recommendation of the accident, sickness and
redundancy policy was not suitable at the time it was made.
In all the circumstances I dont find that the accident, sickness and redundancy policy was
mis-sold to Mr S in 2011 or that Mr S was mis-advised to cancel his existing policy. I 
recognise Mr S will be disappointed by my provisional decision but I dont find that he has 
been treated unfairly. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Lifesearch Partners Limited 
made no further comments. 
Mr S re-listened to the calls, sent transcripts and made several comments about the advice 
he was given. In summary he could accept that the redundancy cover sold to him met his 
needs but believed that this oversimplified the matter and overlooked the fact that he also 
needed an accident and illness policy. 
He felt that the advisor was focused solely on making a sale, did not adequately consider his 
needs and incorrectly advised him that he would need to cancel an existing policy. He said 
that he believed that he had to cancel his existing policy in order to obtain the redundancy 
cover, but that if he had been correctly advised that he could keep both policies but that 
claims would be capped he would have proceeded on that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened again to the recorded calls and taken into consideration the points that Mr S has 
made but Im not persuaded to reach a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
I dont consider it was wrong of L to begin with asking questions about Mr Ss sick pay and 
health or indeed to try to keep the premium for accident and sickness as cheap as possible 
as this wasnt the cover the Mr S said that he was interested in. Likewise once it was 
established that Mr S was willing to pay around £50 I am satisfied that L was correct to try 
and keep near to that figure. Mr S thinks this should have been explored further but I dont 
agree. Indeed had L persuaded Mr S to pay significantly more I am likely to have taken the 
view that would have been mis-selling.
I agree that L was focused on making a sale, but it doesnt follow that this means she didnt 
make a suitable recommendation. L did say she would obtain quotes in the first call but in 
the following call only offered one. I dont find that this is evidence that L made any decision 
for Mr S as to the best and only option, as he suggests. L made a recommendation, Mr S 
wanted to read it through before deciding. My provisional finding was that this was sensible 
and I remain satisfied that was the case. He was not obliged to take the policy and could 
have made other enquiries.
L offered to look through Mr Ss existing policy. Lifesearch has sent it wasnt sent. There is 
no evidence on the file that it was, although Mr S now says that he believes he did send it. If 
this was the case I have some difficulty in understanding why it wasnt mentioned in the 
second call either by L or Mr S. On balance Im not satisfied that it was received, even if 
sent. But for the reasons given above this wouldnt in any event make any difference to my 
decision.Finally L explained to Mr S that benefit under these policies is capped. She said she would 
look at the most cost effective way for Mr L to achieve what they had discussed. Mr S could 
have taken the new policy and kept the old but for the term of the new policy he would have 
been paying premiums for both policies when benefit would have been capped. I understand 
that he now thinks he would have chosen to do this but having re-listened to the 
conversations he had with L Im not persuaded that he would have, or indeed that it would 
have been suitable advice for L to give. 
I do appreciate that this is disappointing for Mr S and Im sorry I dont bring more welcome 
news. But for the reasons given in my provisional decision and above I dont find that the 
accident, sickness and redundancy policy was mis-sold to Mr S in 2011 or that Mr S was 
mis-advised to cancel his existing policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman