DRN-3330294
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss S is being represented in this complaint by Mr B. For ease of reference, My decision 
will only refer to Miss S.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with FCA. She paid an advance payment of £1,764.27 and the agreement was for 
£19,280.73 over 48 months; with 47 monthly repayments of £307.82 and a final optional 
payment of £7,438 if she wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
In May 2021, the car suffered an engine failure. The supplying dealership initially said this 
should be covered by the warranty. However, because Miss S hadnt serviced the car in line 
with the manufacturers requirements, the warranty was invalidated. And Miss S was asked 
to cover the cost of the repair.
Miss S was unhappy with what had happened and complained to FCA that the car was no 
longer fit for purpose. And she said she either wanted the car to be fixed or be able to reject 
it. But FCA said there was no evidence the car was faulty when supplied. So, given the time 
and mileage since supply, and given the lack of servicing, they said they werent going to 
take any further action.
Miss S wasnt happy with FCAs response, and she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that there was a fault with the car. But this fault 
happened around two years, and 30,000 miles, after the car was supplied. And he thought 
that, if the fault was present when the car was supplied, its likely it wouldve become 
apparent sooner. Whats more, he said that the lack of servicing may have been a factor in 
the fault occurring. Given this, he didnt think the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Miss S, and he didnt think FCA needed to take any action.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator. She said the car had only missed one service, 
which was a result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic shutting garages. She said that 
having less than 10 months between services and numerous vehicle health checks this 
doesnt seem to be unreasonable and that the car was serviced the car two weeks before 
the engine failed.
Miss S has also referred to evidence which she believes shows that the engine failure was 
not as a result of the missed service. And we simply do not have the money for the repairs 
or the money to keep, paying for a vehicle which does not work. Because of this, shes 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I address the complaint, I think it would be useful for me to clarify the scope of my 
decision. There are two main issues here  the fault with the engine and the warranty. My 
decision will consider the responsibility of FCA, as the finance provider. But, as FCA arent 
the warranty provider, I wont be considering the decision made by the warranty provider not 
to repair the car under warranty. And this is something Miss S would need to consider 
pursuing separately.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, FCA 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless FCA can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, it implies that its for Miss S to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss S took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask FCA to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Miss S signed on 2 February 2019. And the terms of this 
agreement confirmed that she needed to have the goods serviced regularly, in accordance 
with the manufacturers recommendations. In addition, she was required not to do anything 
which invalidates the manufacturers warranty. Ive viewed the manufacturers servicing 
requirements on their website, and this confirms that the car should be serviced every 9,000 
miles or 12-months. The website also shows this servicing schedule is a requirement of the 
manufacturers warranty.
Miss S took possession of the car in February 2019, so the first service was due by no later 
than February 2020 (or 9,000 miles, whichever was sooner). While Miss S has referred to 
the Covid-19 pandemic, the government-imposed lockdown didnt happen until late March 
2020. So, Im satisfied that Miss S had sufficient time to have had the car serviced before the 
lockdown caused garages to close.
Miss S has confirmed that the first service took place in July 2020, when the car had done 
9,866 miles. This was done by the dealership, who also completed a 54-point check. Neither 
the service nor the 54-point check indicated any problems or issues with the car.Miss S has confirmed that the next service took place in May 2021, when the car had done 
35,027 miles. While this was within 12-months of the first service, the services due at 18,000 
and 27,000 miles were missed. Based on this information, Im satisfied that Miss S didnt 
have the car serviced in line with the manufacturers or the warranty requirements. And, in 
doing so, she breached the requirement in the agreement to take reasonable care of the car.
The second service also didnt indicate any problems or issues with the car. However, as I 
understand it, the engine failed on 20 May 2021  a few days after the second service. And, 
from what Ive seen, this failure was caused by a lack of coolant in the engine. As a result, a 
new engine is required, which I understand will cost just over £10,000. Miss S has said shes 
not able to afford this, and the breakdown has left her without access to transportation.
When considering the CRA, the fault with the engine happened after Miss S had been in 
possession of the car for 2 years and 3 months, and after shed been able to drive it for more 
than 35,000 miles. The car had also had two services, and a 54-point check, carried out 
before the engine failed. And none of these indicated any issues with the car. So, Im 
satisfied that its for Miss S to show the car was faulty when the car was supplied to her, and 
this fault caused the engine to fail.
While Miss S has said that the engine failure must have been due to a manufacturing defect, 
I havent seen any evidence, for example an independent engineers report, which says this 
was the case. And I havent seen anything that shows me there was any fault with the car 
when it was supplied to Miss S. Given this, the age and mileage of the car when the engine 
failed, and the results of the servicing and 54-point checks carried out on the car, its more 
likely than not that the engine failed due to an issue that wasnt present when the car was 
supplied.
Miss S has said that she doesnt think the missed services wouldve caused the engine 
failure. While this may be the case, this is an issue why the car wasnt repaired under 
warranty. And it has no bearing on the condition of the car when it was supplied. So, and I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, for the reasons already given, Im 
satisfied that the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. As such, I wont be 
asking FCA to either repair the car, or to allow Miss S to reject it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman