DRN-3837605
The complaint
Mr S complains Wescot Credit Services Limited didnt update him about the status of his 
credit card debt when they should have.
What happened
Mr S took out a credit card with a company Ill refer to as S. The account fell into arrears, 
and S asked Wescot to manage the account on their behalf. 
I can see on 21 January 2022 Wescot wrote to Mr S to say theyre returning the account to S 
as hed said he wasnt going to be making any payments.
On 1 February 2022 Wescot wrote to Mr S and said at the moment his account remains with 
them, but theyre speaking to S to see how to proceed. Wescot said once a response has 
been received theyd update Mr S accordingly.
Wescot said there isnt any requirement for them to contact Mr S when an account is 
withdrawn from them. And as they didnt buy the account from S, they cant affect Ss 
decision about what to do. As the account was taken back by S, then S should have 
contacted Mr S to let him know this.
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so and 
found Wescot didnt need to do anything further.
Mr S didnt accept this. He reiterated Wescot said theyd do something, didnt, and as a 
vulnerable consumer this had an impact on him. He remained of the opinion £10,000 is what 
Wescot needed to pay to put matters right. Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain as a starting point mistakes can and do happen. Each 
individual mistake shouldnt, by default, result in a compensation payment. Sometimes an 
explanation will be sufficient, likewise sometimes an apology will be a fair way to resolve 
matters.
So, as a starting point, I cant agree Wescot having to pay £10,000 would be a fair resolution 
to this issues Mr S has raised.
The letter dated 1 February 2022 says:
In relation to the management of your account, I can confirm your account remains with 
Wescot at present. However, we are currently reviewing this matter with Sto confirm how 
they wish to proceed in this matter. Once a response has been received, we will update you 
accordingly.
I think most people reading this would likely expect to hear against from Wescot  not least 
because this says once theyve heard back from S theyll send an update. So, the inference 
here quite clearly is that Wescot expect to hear back from S  to then be able to update Mr S 
on the status of his account.
Wescot though have said they didnt hear back from S. Theyve said when an account is 
withdrawn from them this is an automated process and theyre not explicitly told the account 
has been returned to S. So, they didnt actually know the account had gone back to S. They 
also said its the account owners responsibility, S in Mr S case, to have sent an update.
I understand this was explained to Mr S on several occasions after hed made his complaint 
and received Wescots initial complaint response. 
This isnt what they said to Mr S on 1 February 2022 though. If this is Wescots processes, 
then Id expect them to be slightly clearly about how things might happen. For example, they 
could have said theyre in discussions with S about whats going to happen with Mr S 
account, and it might be they or S who next get in touch to explain whats going to happen.
That would have been clearer, and I think less likely to have any impact on Mr S about what 
then did happen.
But technically Ive found Wescot didnt actually do anything wrong. It is S responsibility to 
have updated Mr S about what was going to happen next. And Im satisfied with Wescots 
explanation that they didnt know the account had been passed back to S so couldnt update 
Mr S because they didnt know it had been. Both of which I understand they subsequently 
explained to him.
I do understand Mr S then not receiving the update had a disproportionate impact on him 
due to the vulnerabilities hes told us about. But for the reasons Ive explained above Im 
satisfied Wescot arent required to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman