DRN-4350083
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels (esure) 
handled and settled her claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M had home insurance with esure, however in April 2022 she changed to a different 
insurer. In June 2022 she made a claim on her new policy after discovering a leak in her 
bathroom. The insurer referred the claim to esure as it said the leak started while Mrs M was 
insured with it.
esure accepted the claim and sent out a loss adjuster to carry out an inspection and 
commence drying. However Mrs M was unhappy with their work and she made a complaint. 
esure upheld the complaint and agreed its contractor had provided poor service. It said it 
would hand the claim over to a different loss adjuster, which Mrs B accepted.
The new loss adjuster completed the drying and esure offered a cash settlement for the 
repairs. However Mrs M said this wasnt enough to cover the work required so didnt accept 
the offer. Due to this, esure asked her to get her own quote for the work. Mrs M provided this 
and esure increased the cash settlement offer but didnt agree to pay the full quote as it said 
some of the work was improvements to the bathroom, so not included under the policy.
Mrs M was unhappy with this and made a complaint. esure took some time to respond, but 
when it did it maintained its position on the cash settlement. And offered £100 compensation 
to apologise for poor service at points during the claim.
Mrs M wasnt happy with its response, and asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought esure had 
made a fair offer and it was reasonable for it to ask for another quote if Mrs M didnt consider 
it to be enough to cover the insured work.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said the damage to her kitchen wall and cupboard had never been 
addressed and this wasnt included in the quote. And she said esures first contractors had 
caused additional damage to the bathroom which had led to the claim taking longer to 
resolve. And this hadnt been considered either. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure has sent an expert to assess the claim related damage, and they put together an 
itemised scope of all the work that is left to be completed. As this has been compiled by an 
expert who has inspected the damage, I find it persuasive.
Mrs M has said she doesnt think it covers all the work required and doesnt agree that the 
cash settlement of around £1,800 is enough to get the work done. Shes provided a quote 
from a builder for around £6,500. However this includes additional work that she is having 
completed on top of the claim related work. And rather than being itemised, it is just a list of 
the different elements with a price at the end. So it doesnt show how much the claim related 
work would cost.
esure has said that if Mrs M doesnt agree with the cash settlement offered, then she should 
obtain her own quote to demonstrate that it isnt sufficient for the work required. While I 
appreciate this may be difficult to obtain, I dont think it unreasonable. esure has fulfilled its 
obligation under the policy by providing an itemised list of the work and a costing for this. So 
it is now for Mrs M to either accept this or provide proof if she considers it to be inaccurate. 
I note Mrs M has said one of her concerns about the settlement is that there is damage to 
the kitchen wall and back of a kitchen cupboard, and esure hasnt addressed this. Shes also 
raised concerns about a shower tray that was broken by the first contractor. While I can see 
she has queried these issues in emails and esure hasnt responded to her points directly, I 
can also see in the scope of works that these costs have been included. So I dont agree 
these have been missed from the settlement.
Based on this, I think esure has fulfilled its liability under the policy. Its offered a cash 
settlement based on a breakdown of the work required from its loss adjuster. And Ive not 
seen any evidence from Mrs M that this isnt sufficient for the claim related work. 
esure has also offered a disturbance allowance for the time Mrs M was without bathroom 
facilities. As she declined alternative accommodation due to personal reasons, I think this is 
a reasonable offer. And it has agreed to pay the additional electricity costs incurred for the 
claim. So I think its offered a reasonable settlement. 
I can see that the claim journey hasnt always been an easy one for Mrs M. Particularly in 
the beginning when there was a different contractor handling the claim. Esure resolved her 
first complaint by agreeing to replace the contractor. Which was a resolution that Mrs M 
accepted. And it has offered £100 compensation to apologise for the issues she experienced 
with the first contractor, in her most recent complaint. I think this is fair in the circumstances 
and in line with what I would have directed if esure hadnt made an offer. 
Based on this, I think esure has acted fairly and reasonably when settling Mrs Ms claim. Its 
offered a cash settlement based on an itemised list of the required work. And Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me this is incomplete or incorrect. And its offered £100 compensation 
to apologise for the poor service at the start of the claim. I therefore think its done enough to 
put things right and I wont ask it to do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman