DRN-3679591
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2017, Mr S was contacted by S about buying a solar panel system. Following a 
sales meeting, Mr S decided not to proceed. In March 2018, Mr S was contacted again and 
agreed to a further meeting where he did agree to purchase a solar panel system with 
battery and smart thermostat (the system) to be installed at his home. Mr S financed the 
purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was repayable over ten years.
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that induced 
Mr S to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The solar panels would pay for themselves because the combined benefit of the 
Feed-In Tariff payments and electricity bill savings would be more than enough to 
cover the monthly finance repayments. 
He would not be financially worse off. 
Using the benefits to pay off the loan early would allow Mr S to pay it off after within 
years. 
The CMC has confirmed that Mr S was given two quotes showing the income and savings 
the system was expected to generate. The first (undated) showed a year 1 benefit of 
between £213.42 and £336.09. The second, dated 9 March 2018, shows a year 1 
benefit of between £203.16 and £319.85. The CMC says the quotes do not match what Mr S 
was told at the time. 
Mr S says his understanding following the sale was that his energy supplier would contact 
him to set up the FIT payments. This didnt happen, so Mr S contacted S about a year after 
installation. He was directed to contact his energy supplier which provided a FIT registration 
form. The energy supplier responded to highlight an error on the MCS certificate which 
needed correcting by S before his system could be registered for FIT payments. S did not do 
this, so Mr S arranged for the amendment to be made himself. The FIT payments were not 
backdated to the installation date, so Mr S missed out on those payments for electricity 
generated in the first year. Mr S thinks he may have ended up receiving lower FIT unit rates 
than if the application had been submitted soon after installation. 
Ikano explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S because 
the sales contract showed the cost and benefit adjacent to each other just above where Mr S 
signed. And that there were no other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think it should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
It is our clients complaint that he was advised that over the loan term they would 
have paid for themselves, hence they would be self-funding  not that they would 
be immediately self-funding. And that if he used the surplus profit he would receive 
from the Feed-in Tariff to redeem the loan he would be able to settle the finance 
within 7 years.
Providing only one-year predictions of the benefits does not provide our client with 
sufficient evidence to make a comparison and determine that the system would not 
be self-funding over the loan term.
The cost and benefit information was provided on separate documents, so was not 
clear and did not allow for an easy comparison that was clear and easy to read.
It was not Mr S responsibility to study the documents and to work out for himself that 
what he was being told was not true.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documentsThere are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement, quote, and performance estimate sheet. I have taken into 
account the other version of the performance estimate sheet, which showed a slightly higher 
estimated generation and benefits (although still a maximum of £336.09 in year 1).
There are two versions of the quote and performance estimate sheet. I think the ones signed 
on 9 March 2018 are the most relevant, since these show information about the system that 
was ultimately installed. 
The credit agreement sets out:
Cash Price £14,000
Loan amount £13,900
Total charge for credit £4,447.84
Loan term 120 months
Monthly repayments £152.91 pm
Total payable £18,347.84
The quote is a one-page document which includes a basic description of the system, the 
estimated annual generation and the price excluding loan costs. 
The performance estimate is a one-page document which sets out some details of the 
system including the annual generation, FIT unit rates and estimated benefits:
I think it is clear from this that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total 
between £203.16 and £319.85 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% 
respectively. This figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr S would 
use himself. 
Im satisfied that the quote and estimated performance sheet formed a central part of the 
sales process. They were both completed by hand during the meeting and signed by Mr S. 
So, I think they are relevant, alongside Mr Ss recollection of the sale, when considering if 
there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
On the performance estimate sheet, I think there is a potential mistake  the FIT income 
most likely should be based on a unit rate of 3.40p per kWh. So, it should be over £100. 
However, this quote suggests that Mr S wouldve been told the benefits were much lower 
than they probably would be.
In Mr Ss original claim and complaint, he said that he was told the benefits (FIT payments 
and electricity savings) would be enough to cover the monthly loan repayments and he 
would not be financially worse off. That suggests, despite what the CMC has later said, that 
Mr S alleges that he was told the system would be immediately self-funding  that is that the 
benefits would exceed the monthly loan repayments right from the start. I think the quote and 
estimated performance sheet make it clear that would not be the case. 
They show that the system would cost £14,000.00  a deposit of £100.00 and a balance of 
£13,900.00. And that the first-year benefit of the system would be up to £319.85. 
Given that both documents were completed and signed during the meeting, I think it is likely 
that the salesperson discussed them both with Mr S. And it seems unlikely that  while 
talking through these two single page documents, that the salesperson wouldve told Mr S 
that the benefits would be significantly more than the documents show. 
I think it is clear from the documents that the system would not be immediately self-funding 
in the way described in the original claim and complaint. For a ten-year loan of £14,000, the 
repayments would be £1,400.00 per year. This is significantly more than the highest 
potential benefit quoted of £319.85 even before adding the loan interest. 
I dont think that the cost and benefits being shown on different documents make this any 
less clear. The two documents are a single page each and both are, in my opinion, clear. So, 
bearing in mind they were provided to Mr S and signed by him during the same meeting, and 
I think he wouldve been talked through the figures at that time. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr S has alleged.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman