DRN-2792715
The complaint
Miss W, who is represented by a third party, took out a mortgage in October 2007 with 
Nationwide Building Society and was sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy at the same time. She says she was mis-sold this type of cover because it was never 
properly explained to her and she didnt need it. 
What happened
The policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, initially cost 
around £18 per month and provided protection of for mortgage payments of £200.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Miss W its unlikely to be 
upheld. As Miss W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Ive seen that Miss W says she bought the PPI at a meeting and that Nationwide 
recommended she take out the policy. However, from what I know about the sale, 
Nationwide didnt provide a personalised recommendation to her about the PPI. But it still 
had to give her information about the cover that was clear enough for her to make an 
informed choice.
The central point of Miss Ws complaint is that she didnt know what she was buying and 
also didnt need the cover to go with her mortgage. However, these events are from some 
time ago and Ive seen that the PPI was closed in 2015 when the mortgage was redeemed. 
Its therefore not unusual that Nationwide no longer has all of the sale paperwork from the 
time. But Ive seen from the copy of Miss Ws mortgage application that Nationwide has 
retained that shed decided to take out PPI with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Ive also seen that the policy was free for the first 3 months with the 
mortgage product Miss W chose. I think this issue would have been discussed and I find it 
very unlikely that Nationwide would have missed the opportunity to offer such a product, 
free of charge, without telling the consumer.
Given that we know PPI was definitely added its therefore highly likely that Miss W would 
have been sent the policy details by the insurers. This would have included the policy 
schedule and information about what was covered. Ive seen examples, from the early 
1990s, where the insurers sent through this type of information to consumers who had 
bought this type of Nationwide PPI cover. It contained the names of those insured and the 
cost.
Im also familiar with the free offer Nationwide used around this time. Although we dont 
have the actual paperwork for this case, Ive seen quite a few examples where 
Nationwide at the end of the free period writes to customers to remind them that the 
charges would start to be incurred for the PPI policy.
I accept this is all a long time ago now. But I need to make a decision about what is more 
likely to have happened. And given my experience of these particular sales at this particular 
time, I think Nationwide would have obtained the necessary consent. I also think Miss W 
would have been sent quite a lot of paperwork about the PPI she took out, making her aware 
she had a PPI policy set up with her mortgage.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Miss W was told everything she ought to 
have been told. But Mr W appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by 
any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me 
to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and Ive seen nothing 
that suggests it wasnt affordable for her.
Miss W said she didnt need the cover because she already had sickness protection with 
her job of around 6 months pay. She also told us about some savings she could fall back 
on. Ive no way of knowing precisely why Miss W opted for the PPI, but her mortgage was 
a long-term and important commitment, secured against her home. So, the consequences 
of not being able to keep up the mortgage payments could have been serious. In the 
event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months. This would have 
been in addition to  and much longer than - any other means Mr W already had in place 
at the time.
Overall, I think Miss W probably had some level of discussion with Nationwide about this 
sale and I think the PPI she ended up buying was of use to her. So, whilst Im sorry to have 
to disappoint her, I wont be upholding Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything more to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman