DRN-2090044
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont extend the cover of his Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) policy to reach his retirement age. 
What happened
Mr R took out the PPI alongside his mortgage in 1998. The policy covered his mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to being too unwell to work or 
lost his job. 
The policy provided this cover to Mr R until he either reached 65, he retired, or he started to 
receive his state pension  which ever one came first. Mr R has explained his retirement age 
has increased to 66 as part of Governmental changes so asked Aviva to continue provide 
cover for him for an extra year. 
When Aviva explained it couldnt do this, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our adjudicators reviewed his complaint but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong, so 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, it has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to say I do understand Mr Rs frustrations  something has changed 
which is out of his control and he is now concerned about not being covered for a year. And I 
appreciate that this is a significant worry for Mr R, given the nature of his job. 
However, my role  and the role of this service  is to identify if a business has done 
something wrong. And if it has made a mistake then we ask a business to put the consumer 
back in the position they should have been had that error not occurred. I have noted Mr Rs 
comments about this being an industry flaw, but I can only consider the individual merits of 
Mr Rs complaint. 
From the information I have, I cant see that Aviva has done anything wrong. PPI policies 
were mass off the shelf packaged products which were designed to cover a broad 
spectrum and werent underwritten so they cant be tailored. 
At the time Mr R took out the policy, 65 was considered the normal retirement age. So, 
ending at that point was a normal term. As such, even if Aviva wanted to amend the policy 
for Mr R  its not possible for it to do so. 
It is unfortunate that the Government has changed the retirement age, but Im not able force 
Aviva  or the industry at large  to change the policy in reflection of this. 
I appreciate this outcome is likely to disappoint Mr R, but I hope my explanation helps him to 
understand how I reached it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman