DRN-2264743
The complaint
Miss W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably called the police to her 
property and this led to damage and items being stolen. Miss W complains that this event 
affected her premiums for, and the renewal of, two home insurance policies. Miss W also 
complains her two policies lapsed, and a 2012 water damage claim is yet to be settled.
What happened
Miss Ws complaint involves two properties that were insured by UKI. A number of different 
claims have been made since 2006.
In 2019, Miss W made the following complaint:
- The police damaged a garage door at one of her properties after UKI arranged for 
officers to attend, and items were later stolen. 
- The police incident impacted her premiums and renewal. Shes unhappy her two 
policies lapsed, and shes been left uninsured.
- A 2012 claim for water damage, following a leak, hasnt yet been settled.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Miss W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Because Miss W disagreed, her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of Miss Ws submissions to our service. However, it isnt our role 
to comment on every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to 
address the issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where I havent directly commented 
on points, this isnt intended as a discourtesy. But rather, this simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it. 
I also note that, after UKI responded to this complaint in August 2019, Miss W continued to 
contact it about the same points, and about some of the points that were considered by my 
ombudsman colleague in her November 2019 final decision. Understandably, UKI referred 
Miss W to its previous complaint responses, and to our service which was considering this 
complaint. To be clear, Im not considering anything that happened after UKI responded in 
August 2019, or anything thats already been the subject of a previous final decision from 
this service.
Ill set out my findings under the following five headings: police; premiums and renewal; 2012 
water damage claim; 2017 and 2018 theft claims; and next steps.
Police
In 2018, whilst discussing a claim with UKI, Miss W referenced committing suicide. Due to 
concerns about her welfare, UKI took steps which led to the police calling at one of the 
insured properties. 
Miss W says the police forced entry via the garage, which was left unsecure, and items were 
later stolen. Miss W is unhappy UKI arranged for the police to attend, and to the property 
she wasnt at.
Miss W says she referenced suicide out of frustration and was trying to get UKI to take her 
seriously. However, whilst I accept her explanation, UKI is under an obligation to take such 
threats seriously. I cant reasonably decide UKI did something wrong, by acting on its 
concerns.
Having said that, at the start of the call with the initial agent, Miss W gave a different address 
to the one the police visited; and when the team leader took over the call, she identified they 
were looking at the wrong claim and she couldnt access the correct one. UKI has told us it 
gave the address for the claim they were dealing with, and its agents would not have been 
aware of another address. However, given Miss W gave a different address at the start of 
the call; the agents were aware they werent looking at the correct claim; and UKI ought 
reasonably to have been aware it was insuring more than one property for Miss W, 
I consider more care could have been taken when passing on its welfare concerns.
Nonetheless, overall, Im not persuaded UKI can reasonably be held responsible if the police 
caused damage to the property, or if it was left unsecure. Ultimately, UKI acted in good faith 
based on legitimate concerns, and its not responsible for the polices actions.
Premiums and renewal
UKI says its call to the police had no impact on Miss Ws premiums or renewal. UKI has 
shared some information about the premium history for both policies, and Ive not seen 
anything that leads me to believe UKIs concern for Miss Ws welfare impacted her 
premiums.
Furthermore, the annual premium of the policy that was covering the property allegedly 
damaged by the police, only increased by £8 at the following renewal. As such, Im not 
persuaded the incident itself impacted the premium of that policy.
In respect of the renewal, both policies lapsed in June 2019. UKI noted it had both properties 
listed as a main residence, so before renewing the policies, it needed clarification from 
Miss W about which of the two properties was her main residence.
UKI says it made extensive attempts to contact Miss W about her renewal and it encouraged 
her to make telephone contact to ensure the policies didnt lapse. Miss W doesnt dispute 
UKI made attempts to contact her, and shes acknowledged she was made aware that the 
issue was in respect of her main residence. Miss W says, in response to UKIs letters, she 
wrote to UKI seeking clarification over her claim history; and its failure to respond was the 
cause of her not renewing. She says she wanted details about her claim history first. She 
also says she did follow up with a call, and she was promised a call back, but this didnt 
happen. However, Miss W also says that given her experiences with UKI, she had no 
intention of renewing; and I note UKI offered to quote for new policies in its complaint 
response. Given what Miss W says about not intending to renew with UKI, and UKIs offer to quote for 
new policies following the lapse of her previous policies, I cant reasonably decide UKI is 
responsible for the policies lapsing, or for Miss W being left without cover.
2012 water damage claim
Miss W made the claim in July 2012. She advised UKI there had been a leak, which had 
damaged the walls and dcor in her kitchen and dining room. UKI asked her to provide 
photos and an estimate for the repair.
UKIs notes show that it called Miss W in September 2012, after receiving a letter from her 
which it couldnt read. However, she refused to discuss the claim and she ended the call. 
The claim was then closed due to no contact from her. 
UKIs notes show Miss W made contact again in July 2015, to pursue the claim. UKI offered 
to appoint a loss adjuster to consider the claim, but Miss W changed her mind and the claim 
was again closed. 
The claim was reopened again in July 2018, following a call from Miss W. UKI said it would 
consider estimates for, and photos of, the damage originally reported in 2012. In UKIs 
August 2019 complaint response, it said it was still waiting for estimates from her.
Miss W provided our investigator with some photos of the damage, and quotes for about 
£30,500. Miss W says a kitchen unit was found to have been water damaged, so a new 
kitchen is required to ensure her units match. Miss W also told us this information was 
provided to UKI in December 2018. 
Our investigator sent the quotes and photos to UKI. However, it said due to the passage of 
time, it couldnt assess the claim from photos and quotes, and a site visit is needed.
Miss W has provided copies of emails which support the quotes and photos were sent to UKI 
in December 2018, but a response wasnt received. As such, I can understand why shes 
frustrated that UKI was still waiting for this information from her. 
However, in August 2019, UKI did explain to Miss W that it would need to visit before settling 
any further claims. So, Im not persuaded UKI is responsible for the delays beyond this point. 
Furthermore, based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded UKI is responsible for the 
initial delay between July 2012 and December 2018.
Therefore, even though I accept UKI was sent the quotes and photos in December 2018, 
and I acknowledge Miss Ws frustration on this point, overall, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for how this claim has progressed.
Importantly, given the time thats passed between July 2012 and December 2018, and the 
value of Miss Ws estimates, I cant reasonably decide that UKI needs to settle the claim 
without a visit to assess the damage.
So, UKI needs to arrange for a loss adjuster to visit so it can assess the claim. Miss W will 
need to allow this to happen. If she isnt happy with UKIs proposed settlement once its 
assessed the damage, a further complaint can be made.2017 and 2018 theft claims
In Miss Ws correspondence with our service shes outlined concerns about two theft claims 
that were logged in 2017 and 2018, involving her garage. Its my understanding that Miss W 
doesnt want either claim recorded. Miss W says the garage door was repairable following 
the first incident, and no items were stolen; and the garage door was only later damaged 
beyond repair by the police, and items were stolen due to the garage being left unsecure. 
I understand that Miss W would like UKI to pay for the garage door and the stolen items 
outside of a claim on her policy, because she holds it responsible for the police visit. 
Miss W also points towards a settlement letter which says a £4,122.43 payment is for her 
garage door. She says this amount was for a different claim  and shes concerned the 
amount has been paid under the wrong claim.
As already explained above, Im not persuaded that UKI can reasonably be held responsible 
for what happened in respect of the police. Beyond that, Im unable to consider what claims 
have been logged in respect of the garage, or how those claims should be settled. This is 
because, these matters werent the subject of the complaint that UKI considered.
Nonetheless, its evident that Miss W is unhappy about what theft claims have been logged 
in respect of her garage, and she considers damage and items are yet to be settled. Also, 
there does appear to be some confusion caused by UKI here, as £4,122.43 is the amount 
my ombudsman colleague awarded in her November 2019 final decision. This was for the 
French windows and a door at one of Miss Ws properties, and for stolen items from both 
properties, in respect of two 2011 theft claims. It wasnt for the garage door.
In conclusion, UKI and Miss W need to engage with each other about the claims logged in 
2017 and 2018; about the settlements recorded against these two claims; and about how 
any outstanding damage or items are to be settled. If after doing so, Miss W remains 
unhappy, she can make a complaint about these matters.
Next steps
When responding to this complaint, UKI explained to Miss W that due to the complexity of 
the situation and the time thats passed between each outstanding claim, if she wishes to 
pursue any of them, UKI requires two people to visit her property. UKI explained it was 
happy to progress one claim at a time, to make things easier for her.
UKI says two people will need to visit due to what happened during its last visit. I appreciate 
Miss W disputes what UKI says happened. However, Im not considering that matter here, 
as it was considered by my ombudsman colleague in her November 2019 final decision;
she considered it sensible for both parties to have another person present during future 
meetings.
Importantly, Im satisfied UKIs proposed visit is reasonable if Miss W wishes to pursue any 
claims not yet settled. I say this because a lot of time has passed since the claims were 
made, and theres since been a fair amount of confusion. A visit will give UKI a better 
opportunity to understand whats outstanding and help it make a fair assessment.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss W. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman