DRN-4046779
The complaint
Mr J complains about the settlement payment esure Insurance Limited (esure) offered
following the total loss of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen, so he contacted esure to make a claim. The car was recovered but it
was badly damaged. esure determined that the car was a total loss and so offered Mr J what
it considered the market value to be. Mr J didnt think this was enough. esure then increased
its offer to £8,263 less his policy excess. This included a deduction for pre-existing damage
amounting to £140.
Mr J says he has obtained a valuation from one of the industry trade guides. This gave a
valuation of £9,020. Mr J says esure should pay him the difference between its offer and the
valuation he obtained. esure didnt agree. It thought it had acted fairly and paid the average
valuation from the trade guides it had looked at, which included the guide Mr J had used. As
esure didnt change its mind, Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He thought esure had acted fairly when
assessing the market value of Mr Js car, and so he didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr J didnt think this was fair. He also queried how esure had determined there was pre-
existing damage given the extensive damage caused by the thieves. He asked that an
ombudsman should consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Js complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain.
I can understand that Mr J wants the best settlement he can achieve for the loss of his car.
Ive read his policy terms to understand what is expected in the event of the total loss. The
terms say when settling a claim esure wont pay more than the market value of the car at the
time of the loss, less the total excess payable. It defines market value as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you
purchased the car.
Our investigator has explained the approach our service applies to car valuations. We dont
provide valuations for cars, but we will look to see whether the insurer has treated their
customer fairly and that its offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We take all
other available evidence into account as well, for example, engineers reports.
Mr J has provided a copy of the trade guide valuation he obtained showing a value of
£9,020. I can see that he used the correct model and year for his car. Although the mileage
is slightly less at 98,000 miles than the 102,823 showing on the cars odometer after it was
recovered.
Ive looked to see how our investigator came to his conclusion that esures valuation offer
was fair. I can see that he looked at the motor trade guide valuations esure provided. These
valuations were for the correct make, model, age, features, mileage, and condition as Mr Js
car at the date of its loss. I can see that the retail transacted valuation, not the trade price,
was used, which is what Id expect.
One valuation esure obtained used a loss date in March 2022. This should have been
January when the loss occurred. I obtained a further valuation, using the correct loss date,
from the same trade guide to see if there was a significant difference. There wasnt. The
difference was around £50.
The valuations esure obtained gave a range between £8,023 and £8,680. I think esures
offer of £8,263 reasonably falls within this range. Valuing second-hand cars isnt an exact
science so I would expect there to be a range of values when referring to the trade guides.
If I include the higher valuation Mr J obtained, instead of esures lower valuation from the
same trade guide, the average valuation still falls within the range stated by esure. So, I
dont think the settlement offer it made was unfair based on this information.
I asked esure to demonstrate that there was pre-existing damage to Mr Js car. It provided
photos of the wheels showing damage to the rims. I note its comments that its engineer
assessed the cost of these repairs at £280. And that it applied a preferential rate when
deducting £140 from its valuation. I didnt think this demonstrated the damage was pre-
existing, so I asked for further information to support this.
esure provided copies of the photos it had already sent showing damage to the wheels. It
also asked its engineer to comment further. But I dont think his comments demonstrate that
the damage was present prior to the car being stolen. As Mr J reasonably points out, his car
sustained significant damage when being driven by the thieves. I think the wheel damage
could reasonably have occurred at this time.
Having considered all this, I dont think the offer esure made Mr J was unfair as it does
reasonably fall within the range of values obtained for his car at the time of the loss. But I
dont think its shown that the damage to the wheels was pre-existing. Because of this I dont
think it can reasonably deduct this amount from its settlement offer.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and esure should:- ensure Mr J receives a settlement payment that doesnt include a deduction for pre-
existing damage to his cars wheels.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr J responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
esure didnt respond with any comments or further information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited should:
- ensure Mr J receives a settlement payment that doesnt include a deduction for pre-
existing damage to his cars wheels.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman