DRN-4144712
The complaint
Miss K complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) dealt with a 
claim she made on her home insurance policy. 
Any reference to Accredited includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss K has a home insurance policy with Accredited that began in August 2022. 
In December 2022 Miss K and her children went to the shops and on the way back she 
realised she didnt have her house key. Miss K says it was around 7pm and she checked 
everywhere for them but couldnt find them. 
Miss K was unable to get a locksmith to attend given the time of year and time of night. Miss 
K explained that she and her children needed medication that was in the house, and theyd 
been in the car for over two hours. 
Miss Ks friend attended and tried to enter the property but was unable to so she asked her 
neighbour to assist. Her neighbour was able to get the door open to let her into the property. 
Miss K says that evening she secured the door by pushing a table against it. 
In the morning Miss K arranged to have the locks repaired. When someone came out to look 
at them he told her the doors were very old but he would try and do the repairs. 
Unfortunately he was unable to repair the locks due to the damage with the doors and told 
Miss K she would need to replace them.
Miss K contacted her insurer who told her making a claim would affect future premiums. 
Miss K said that was fine and she needed her doors replacing because she was concerned 
about her security. 
Accredited asked Miss K to obtain two quotes which took a couple of weeks. When the 
quotes were sent to Accredited it sent its own contractor to measure the doors and take 
photographs. Miss K didnt hear anything further and so contacted Accredited for an update. 
Accredited declined the claim saying because Miss K damaged the doors herself it wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. Miss K says she doesnt understand why Accredited 
didnt tell her this in January when she reported the matter to it. Instead she has been made 
to get quotes and await hearing from Accredited only to be told in March the claim wouldnt 
be covered. 
Miss K isnt happy that Accredited were aware of her circumstances in January but took until 
March to tell her the claim was declined.  
Accredited said it sent a surveyor to Miss Ks home to validate the claim. The surveyor 
reported that upon inspection the timber porch was in poor general condition with decay and 
rotten timbers evident. Accredited said the claim was declined due to Miss K deliberately 
breaking into the property, which is a general exclusion under the policy. 
Miss K didnt agree with Accredited and so the complaint was referred to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for her. He said he didnt think Miss K had been treated fairly. 
He said he didnt think the damage to the door was deliberate in the way Accredited had 
claimed. So he said the insurer should reconsider the claim and pay Miss K £150 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Accredited didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Accredited has queried why Miss K didnt contact its out of hours team to ask it to arrange 
for a locksmith to attend and gain access to the property. I cant see it raised this with Miss K 
prior to the complaint being referred to our service. I would usually expect to see all the 
relevant points raised with the consumer as part of the business response to the complaint. 
So its disappointing to see this point raised later. 
Accredited said the policy excludes claims where there has been a deliberate act. Under 
general exclusions the policy says, Loss, damage, or liability caused intentionally or 
maliciously by: 
-You or your family, or 
-Anyone acting on your behalf, or 
-Anyone lawfully in your home. 
Accrediteds main reason for declining the claim is that the damage was deliberate and 
deliberate damage is excluded under the terms of the policy. Since Accredited is relying on 
an exclusion to decline cover, the onus is on it to show it applies. That means showing the 
damage was deliberate for the purposes of the claim. 
The policy doesnt set out what it means by deliberate. Our service will usually think any 
undefined words should take their ordinary, everyday meaning. And so in this case I think 
the word means something done on purpose rather than by accident; intentional or planned. 
Miss K has explained that in order to get into her home the door needed to be forced open 
since shed lost her keys. So based on a strict application of the policy terms I accept 
Accredited is able to decline the claim, and this is what it did. 
But my remit is also to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And in this 
case I dont think a strict application of the policy terms is fair or reasonable. Miss K was 
unable to get into her property. It was late and dark and she was with her children. Miss K 
has told us that she and her children are vulnerable and needed to get inside in order to get 
their medicine, amongst other things. And so the front door was forced open. 
When Miss K reported the matter to her insurer I would have expected it to take steps to 
validate the claim. But I would also have expected it to deal with the claim promptly, in 
particular being aware of Miss Ks personal circumstances. But I cant see any evidence this 
was considered. At the very least Miss K was entitled to replacement locks under the terms of the policy but I cant see Accredited considered her claim under this. And I would have 
expected it to do so. 
Accredited have said Miss K was insistent that her porch and front door were fully replaced 
and she wouldnt accept anything less. But I havent seen anything to suggest this was the 
case. And even if it was the case, I would expect Accredited to explain to Miss K that she is 
only entitled to what is covered by the terms of the policy. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Accredited has done that. 
Im satisfied Miss K has provided Accredited with enough information to support her claim. I 
think her account of what happened has been consistent. So I dont think it was reasonable 
for Accredited to reject Miss Ks claim in the way it did. 
I direct Accredited to reconsider Miss Ks claim under the remaining terms of the policy. It 
declined Miss Ks claim because it said the damage was caused by a deliberate act. I 
decided it wasnt fair to do so and that means Accredited cant rely on this same reason to 
decline Miss Ks claim. It must reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms. 
Had Accredited dealt with Miss Ks claim promptly in the first instance I dont think she would 
have needed to continue to engage with Accredited and ourselves in an attempt to satisfy 
herself that her claim had been dealt with fairly and correctly. Im satisfied this has taken 
time and effort from Miss K, and I dont doubt it would have been stressful and upsetting 
during that process. Our investigator recommended Accredited pay Miss K £150 to 
recognise the trouble and upset. And I think this recommendation is a fair one that falls in 
line with our services approach and what I would have directed, had it not already been 
made. So I will direct Accredited to pay this amount. 
For the reasons explained I think Accredited acted unfairly in declining Miss Ks claim using 
the exclusion clause. And so I require it to take steps to rectify this, which I have detailed 
below. 
Putting things right
Accredited have agreed to replace the locks under the terms of the policy. 
Ive taken the view that Accredited have acted unreasonably and so it should;
- Consider Miss Ks claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy
- Pay Miss K £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Miss Ks complaint and so Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd must do as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman