DRN-2451500
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) have made two deductions from a 
motor claim settlement on his wifes car which he feels are disproportionate. Mr B also 
complains that the courtesy car which his wife was given was withdrawn early. 
 
What happened
On 16 February 2020 Mrs Bs car was damaged by flooding, and she made a claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
When the settlement was offered on 3 June 2020 deductions were made for pre-existing 
damage and excess mileage.  The car was valued at £10143 using an average of 
valuations, and esure then made a deduction of £143 for pre-existing damage which were 
scratches to front and rear bumpers and a broken drivers side mirror, and £3144 for excess 
mileage. The final settlement offered to Mrs B was £6506 following the further deduction for 
the policy excess of £350. 
Mr B challenged this on his wifes behalf, arguing that the deductions were disproportionate. 
Mr B has argued that the damage to the car may have taken place in the insurers 
possession, and that the mileage deduction is excessive. He has also complained that a 
courtesy car provided 27 March 2020 was withdrawn on 20 April 2020 when the settlement 
was not offered until 3 June 2020. 
Mr B has advised that he accepts it was his and his wifes error in not advising the insurer 
that their circumstances had changed, and they needed to increase the mileage allowance.  
However, he has completed an online quote with the correct mileage and believes the 
additional premium for an esure policy would only have been an extra £59.01.
Esure issued a final response on 8 June 2020.  They have advised that the mileage Mrs B 
declared at the policy outset was 4000 - 5000 but the mileage recorded in the year was 
approximately 16909.  Mrs B has only paid 68.56% of the true premium that would have 
been due had the mileage been correctly declared at the outset of the policy, and so the 
settlement is 68.56% of the value of the car minus the excess, in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
Esure have also advised that in respect of the courtesy car, the policy does not cover Mrs B 
for a courtesy car in these circumstances. Mrs B has standard courtesy car cover which 
provides a car during the period of the car being repaired by one of their recommended 
garages. They provided a courtesy car as a gesture of goodwill because of the pandemic, 
but the car was never with an approved repairer and so technically Mrs B was never entitled 
to one. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Bs complaint. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint was upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view in respect of the excess mileage deduction and 
so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain why below. 
There are three issues here to consider for which deductions have been made. I have to 
look at these deductions and decide whether in applying them, esure have acted in 
accordance with their policy terms and conditions, and whether they have acted fairly in 
doing so. 
The first issue is the deduction for pre existing damage. I understand that there was damage 
to both bumpers and a mirror needed repairing. Mr B was unable to show that the damage 
was not pre-existing, and so I think it is fair for the insurer to make a deduction provided that 
the damage would affect the value of the vehicle if it were sold. I think it is fair to say that 
resale of this vehicle would be affected if there was damage to a mirror and some bumper 
damage. A broken mirror would have failed a MOT, and as the vehicle was only 8 years old 
at the time of the loss, body damage would be relevant to the price. Esure have obtained an 
approximate estimate for these repairs of £356.21. They have deducted £143 from the 
settlement. I think this is a fair figure. I am also conscious that there was no valid MOT in 
place, and a further deduction could have been made for that but was not. 
The second, and most significant deduction is for the mileage. It is clear in the general 
conditions of the policy that there is a duty on the policyholder to advise esure about any 
change to the annual mileage. It also says that failure advise of changes may result in the 
cancellation of the policy or a reduction of any claim. I acknowledge that Mr B says that he 
had his wife forgot to notify esure when there was a change in their circumstances, but they 
were still in breach of their policy conditions, and so I cant say that it was unfair of esure to 
apply a proportionate reduction to the claim. 
Esure say that they have paid 68.56% of the value of the car as Mrs B only paid 68.56% of 
the premium that would have been due had she provided the correct mileage.
Esure have provided us with data about how they calculate quotations and how it would 
have been quoted at the time the policy was taken out in 2019. This information shows that 
at that time, the quoted premium included a discount for low mileage users. As Mrs B had 
quoted a usage of 4- 5000 miles per year, this discount was applied. Had she quoted the 
correct mileage of 16 - 17000, not only would she not have had the discount applied, but 
there would have been a percentage increase in her policy for the higher mileage, making 
the premium much higher than the premium she paid. I have checked the calculation of the 
percentages, and I am satisfied that the calculation is correct, and Mrs B has only paid 
68.56% of the premium that would have been due if she had quoted the correct mileage. Mr 
B thinks that the reduction is too high. He has done a comparison quote for insurance on the 
car quoting the correct mileage and says that the premium esure quoted was only £59 
higher.  However, we have not seen the details of this quote. 
I have queried this with esure. The underwriters have responded that insurance premiums 
quoted for policies vary day to day, and various factors are taken into account including no 
claims discounts, excesses and extras. In addition, the underwriters advise that they moved 
to a new rating system in 2020 for quotes, so any quote given in 2020 would not be 
comparable to that which may have been given in 2019. I am therefore unable to rely on the 
information that Mr B has provided. So, whilst I appreciate that this deduction may seem 
quite large to Mr and Mrs B, I cannot say that esure have acted unfairly in applying it. This is 
in in with industry standard and with the terms of the policy. The final issue raised relates to the courtesy car. I have looked at the policy booklet and I 
can see that the policy included standard courtesy car cover. This means that Mrs B was 
entitled to a courtesy car if her car was being repaired by one of the insurers recommended 
garages. It did not cover provision of a courtesy car in the event of total loss. 
When the claim was first made, there was a question over the cause of the damage to the 
engine, and so no courtesy car could be provided until the claim had been validated. On 26 
March 2019 esure provided a hire courtesy car as a gesture of goodwill because of the 
situation with the pandemic affecting their ability to get the car examined. This was extended 
until 20 April 2019 but there was no contractual obligation on esure to provide it. Once Mrs 
Bs car was deeded a total loss, there was no entitlement to a courtesy car.
I am therefore unable to agree with Mr B that esure should have provided a courtesy car for 
a longer period, as the terms of the policy do not cover Mrs B for a courtesy car in these 
circumstances. 
  
I appreciate that this is not the decision that Mr and Mrs B had hoped for, but I hope that it 
gives a little more clarity on the deduction for excess mileage. 
 
My final decision
I will not therefore be asking esure Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman