DRN-1439639
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited have handled an 
insurance claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Advantage is the insurer for Mr Cs policy and while other parties have been involved in Mr 
Cs claim on Advantages behalf, for the purposes of this decision Ive referred only to 
Advantage. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr C was unfortunately in a serious car accident which led to several 
operations for him and changes to his circumstances. 
Mr Cs partner was also in the car at the time of the accident. And the car was written off.  
Mr Cs partner helped Mr C submit a claim to his insurer shortly after the accident and has 
dealt with all things relating to the accident on Mr Cs behalf. 
Mr Cs partner first raised concerns with Advantage after initially receiving the wrong 
information about the excess payable under the claim. They also complained about the 
general interactions they had experienced with Advantage.
 
On 4 June 2019 Advantage wrote to Mr Cs partner. Amongst other things, Advantage 
accepted they gave the wrong information to Mr Cs partner about the cover under Mr Cs 
policy and explained the policy Mr C had taken out required him to pay an excess. To 
recognise things couldve gone better, Advantage awarded £200. A review of the car 
valuation also led to Advantage increasing the value by £250 which was also paid to Mr C. 
Mr C and his partner have accepted whats set out within the policy terms, although they still 
feel that as a matter of customer service it would be reasonable for Advantage to waive the 
excess.
  
Advantage looked at another complaint raised by Mr C and his partner in relation to a phone 
call which had taken place on 11 June 2019 between Advantage and Mr Cs partner. 
Advantage agreed the call fell below their service standards and paid Mr C £50 to recognise 
this. 
Due to the seriousness of the accident and the impact it had on Mr C, his partner asked 
early on during the claims process that there be no direct contact with Mr C as the matter 
was very upsetting for him. However, Mr C was still contacted by Advantage about the claim.
 
Advantage agrees that on occasions Mr C was wrongly contacted. Notably when Mr C was 
asked to provide the log book and car keys when he no longer owned the car. Mr C and his 
partner said this was also particularly upsetting as it suggested theyd previously lied to 
Advantage when saying these items had already been sent to Advantage. 
On 12 September 2019 Advantage wrote to Mr Cs partner recognising Mr C no longer 
owned the car and agreed the request for the items was unacceptable. They apologised and 
assured Mr Cs partner there would be no further contact from them. They also awarded 
£125 for the upset caused. 
Unfortunately Mr C was still contacted about the claim after this as the log book and car keys 
were later returned to Mr C at his address. Mr Cs partner has said receiving these items in 
the post upset Mr C as they were a reminder of the accident.
 
Advantage emailed Mr Cs partner on 22 October 2019 and said there was no reason why 
the items had been randomly returned to Mr C. They also explained there seemed to have 
been a delay in Advantage retrieving the log book and car keys, and the confusion with 
where these items had been was therefore not the fault of Mr C or his partner. Advantage 
apologised once more and paid Mr C a further £50 to recognise the distress caused. 
In total Advantage have said theyve paid Mr C £425. But Mr C and his partner dont think 
Advantage have done enough to recognise the impact their handling of the claim has had on 
Mr C and so brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and concluded that while Advantage could 
have handled things better, theyd done enough in the circumstances of the complaint to 
recognise what had gone wrong.
 
Our investigator explained the terms under Mr Cs policy required him to pay the excess set 
out under the cover, even though it was unfortunate that Advantage had been unclear on 
this point with Mr Cs partner. And they explained it wasnt possible for this service to change 
Advantages policies and procedures. So while the service Mr C had experienced was below 
what he shouldve expected, Advantage had acknowledged this and offered Mr C a fair 
amount of compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr C and his partner disagreed with the outcome. In summary, they felt enough hadnt been 
done on Advantages part to recognise how Advantages actions had impacted Mr C at such 
a difficult time. They accepted most of what the investigator had said, but felt that the £50 
offered in response to the items being returned to Mr C was disproportionate to the impact 
receiving those items had on Mr C. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account any relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice as well as what is considered to have been good practice at the 
time. 
Above is a summary of events, but I would like to reassure both parties I have looked at all 
the submissions and evidence available. And having reviewed everything Ive reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
  
I am very mindful that Mr C and his partner have experienced something very difficult, 
particularly Mr C given the ongoing impact the accident has had on his overall wellbeing. 
And I am sorry to hear this. 
Advantage accepts they wrongly informed Mr Cs partner the policy excess of £745 would 
not be payable by him. It is disappointing Mr Cs partner was given wrong information like this. Im sure this added unnecessary stress at what was already a very difficult time for Mr C 
and his partner. 
But it might help Mr C and his partner to understand that while Advantage gave wrong 
information, it doesnt automatically follow that Advantage should then act as if the 
misrepresentation was true. 
Ive noted Mr Cs partner was told the correct information around a week after first reporting 
the claim. Ive also considered that Mr C took out and accepted the terms of a particular 
policy with Advantage which shows the excess payable under a claim. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the excess to be applied in the circumstances.
 
However, there is no doubt the wrong information caused Mr C and his partner unnecessary 
upset and so it was right for Advantage to apologise and recognise this.
 
Its unfortunate, as described above, there were then further errors in how the claim was 
handled and I understand Mr C and his partner have specifically mentioned Advantages 
response to the car keys and log book being returned to Mr C. I can only imagine how 
reminders of what happened could cause distress. 
Trying to measure the impact of whats happened is difficult. And by agreeing with our 
investigator that the overall amount paid by Advantage is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it is not my intention to undermine the seriousness of what happened to Mr C and 
his partner or ignore how they feel about what has since happened with Advantage. 
I can see from the submissions Advantage did make several notes on their files that Mr C 
should not be contacted directly. And that they told other parties involved in the claim they 
also should not be contacting Mr C. Their papers also refer to internal feedback for staff. Its 
disappointing this wasnt enough to prevent the errors from happening. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr Cs partner had with our investigator. I understand why they feel 
strongly about how Advantage has handled things and how they wish for Advantage to 
review their processes to recognise the seriousness the impact their actions can have. Mr C 
and his partner clearly wish to prevent other policyholders from experiencing something 
similar to their own experience. 
However, as our investigator has already explained, the scope of our service is limited and it 
is not for this service to fine or punish firms, or to say what procedures and measures they 
should put in place to meet their obligations and encourage good practice. That is for the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to do. It is for our service to look at the individual 
complaint. 
There is no doubt Advantage could have handled things better for Mr C. But I think theyve 
done enough in the circumstances to recognise whats gone wrong and overall I think their 
offers have been fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Cs complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman