DRN-3947780
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited deemed Mrs Ws  
phone to be beyond economical repair and replaced it with a reconditioned phone without 
discussing it with her.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held mobile phone insurance with Assurant through their bank account. Mr 
and Mrs W held mobile phone insurance with Assurant through their bank account. Although 
this complaint is brought by Mr and Mrs W, I will refer to Mrs W throughout as it is her phone 
that is the subject of this complaint.  
Mrs W had a brand-new phone for her birthday with a two year warranty. Unfortunately, a 
week later she cracked the screen, and so she made a claim with Assurant under her policy 
and sent the phone to them for the screen to be replaced. It was received on 4 October.
On 7 October Assurant sent Mrs W a replacement device which was a refurbished phone in 
a different colour.  
On 11 October, Mrs W rang and complained about this.  The agent advised that a 
refurbished device had been issued in accordance with the terms and conditions, but Mrs W 
remained unhappy and so she logged a complaint. She also said that the replacement 
device was faulty. 
Assurant have advised Mrs W to return the device for assessment of the fault, but she hasnt 
returned it as she wants a guarantee that she will get a brand new phone in the original 
colour. 
Assurant didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They said that a refurbished phone had been 
provided in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. She says that 
Assurant should have contacted her prior to sending the replacement and given her the 
choice to have her phone returned rather than replaced.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ws complaint. He thought that Assurant had 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs W disagreed with this and so it came to me to review. 
  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im intending to reach a different conclusion on this complaint to our investigator. Because of 
that, this decision will be provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance to comment before I 
make a final decision.
What I have to decide is whether Assurant have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms of the policy when dealing with Mrs Ws claim, so Ive looked at the policy terms 
and Ive thought about how Assurant have applied them.
The policy terms in relation to repairs state:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we 
cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
Replacements
(1) Where we replace the mobile phone the replacement will be a remanufactured 
(not brand new) device 
(2) We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we can't 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones 
(2) Where we send you or your Family member a replacement or repaired item, this 
will only be sent to a UK address
The policy terms are clear that Assurant can either repair or replace the phone, and so Im 
satisfied they have strictly speaking complied with the terms of the policy by providing a 
replacement phone. There is no obligation on Assurant to provide a new phone, or to 
provide one of the same colour. 
However, in the circumstances of this case I think it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Assurant to have made contact with Mrs W to discuss the fact that they couldnt get the part 
in their normal timescales, and offer Mrs W the option to have her phone back unrepaired.
 
The claim notes indicate that the phone was logged as received by the repairer at 19.27 on 4 
October. It was allocated to a work bench the following day  5 October at 21.00 and was 
held awaiting parts. On 7 October at 13.43 a swap was ordered. Assurant have told me that 
the timescales for repair are 1  3 working days and that as the parts had not arrived by 7 
October  the third day - a swap was ordered and Mrs Ws original phone would have been 
recorded on their system as beyond economical repair. 
I cant see that either in the policy, or when she made the claim, Mrs W was advised that 
there was a 1  3 day timescale for the repair, and that if parts couldnt be obtained in this 
time, she would be sent a reconditioned replacement. The terms of the policy do appear to  
read as if a replacement will only be sent if a repair isnt possible. And so, I dont think it was 
clear to Mrs W what might happen. She had only sent the phone in because of a lightly 
cracked screen and so she had no expectation that her original phone wasnt going to be 
repaired and returned to her.
 
In addition, it looks to me from these notes that the phone was in the workshop for less than 
48 hours before it was decided a replacement would be sent, which isnt at the limit of the 3 
working days. There is no indication in the notes of how long the parts were going to take, 
but I do think that given that the phone was almost brand new, and Assurants repairers 
were unable to provide a like for like replacement, it would have been reasonable for them to 
have contacted Mrs W to make her aware that a part wasnt available within their normal 
repair timescales and given her the option to wait or have her phone returned. Mrs W has told me that if she had known that this was going to happen, she would have asked for her 
phone back unrepaired and got it repaired privately. 
And so, I think that Assurant could have done more to make it clear to Mrs W what would 
happen and offer her options. 
Although its not her original phone, Mrs W has a replacement device of the same model, 
which she says is faulty. Assurant have offered to take it back in and repair it or replace it 
under the terms of their warranty which Im satisfied is fair. I appreciate that Mrs W has 
asked for a brand new device as replacement. However, although her original phone was 
only a week old, it was no longer brand new, and the terms of the policy dont allow for 
used devices to be replaced with brand new ones. 
However, as I have said above, I propose to uphold this complaint and ask Assurant to put 
things right.  
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and award her 
come compensation, and so I invited the parties to comment
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received comments from both parties. Mrs W has accepted my provisional decision but 
Assurant havent. They say they have complied with the terms and conditions of the policy 
by providing the replacement phone. They have provided a repair letter which was sent to 
Mrs W when she made her claim which they say makes the position clear about what will 
happen in the repair process. 
This letter says:
 WHAT HAPPENS WHEN OUR REPAIR CENTRE RECEIVES YOUR DAMAGED/FAULTY 
DEVICE:
They will aim to repair and return your handset within 3 working days of receiving it. 
Once your phone has been repaired it will be sent to you the next working day
What happens if we cannot repair your phone?
If we are unable to repair your phone, a replacement will be sent to you within 3 working 
days. If we dont have the same make and model in stock, we will contact you within 2 
working days to discuss the other options available.  
 
Ive thought about this, and whilst I can see that Mrs W was advised about the three day 
turnaround, I still think that this letter indicates a replacement will only be provided if the 
phone cant be repaired, not if it cant be repaired in the three day timescale. Mrs W has 
confirmed to me that her phone was still working perfectly after she cracked the screen, and 
so she would have had no expectation that it would be unable to be repaired. I think that if 
the phone was to be replaced simply because a part cant be obtained in three days, it would 
have been fair to notify Mrs W and give her the choice to have the phone returned.    
And so, in light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings.
 
Putting things right
In order to out things right I think that Assurant should:Take back the phone sent to Mrs W and repair or replace it
Pay Mr and Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their failure to 
make their processes and her options clear to her.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint and direct Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman