DRN-4305569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs settlement of their travel 
insurance claim. My references to Great Lakes include its claims handling agent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy insured by Great Lakes. They 
went on a holiday which should have consisted of two cruises, a stay at a hotel followed by a 
third cruise.
At the end of the first cruise Mr B tested positive for Covid-19 and in line with the ships 
regulations he and Mrs B were confined to their room. They arrived in the country where the 
hotel stay was to take place but under the local government regulations they had to stay in a 
quarantine hotel for a minimum of seven days or until they tested negative. Mr and Mrs B 
say she also became unwell with Covid-19. As a result of their illness they werent able to 
use the pre-booked hotel and werent able to join the second cruise. About 10 days later 
they both tested negative for Covid-19 and were able to join the third cruise.
Mr and Mrs B claimed on the policy for their accommodation and meal costs for their stay in 
quarantine and the cost of the second cruise they couldnt go on. 
Great Lakes accepted the claim but only paid some of the costs. Great Lakes paid for the 
quarantine hotel on a room only basis, the medical costs and the policys Covid benefit of 
£20 a day for the time Mr B was in confinement.
Great Lakes wouldnt pay for Mr and Mrs Bs taxi costs as there was no receipt, the food 
costs while Mr and Mrs B were quarantined or the lost costs due to their confinement. The 
latter accounted for most of the costs claimed. Great Lakes said under the policy terms there 
was no cover for curtailment (cutting short the trip) in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances except 
for unused excursions up to £350 and it had no evidence they had unused excursions. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. In summary they said:
The policy Covid-19 Cover section said it extends cover of the Cancellation and 
Cutting Short Your Trip sections of the policy which meant it supplemented the 
cancellation and curtailment sections of the policy. Great Lakes had said in its letters 
that the Covid-19 Cover section superseded other sections of the policy but thats 
not what the policy terms said.
They took out the policy because they understood from the policy wording and the 
advertisement of the policy that they would be fully covered if they had Covid-19. 
When Mr B took out the policy on the phone he told Great Lakes that Covid-19 cover 
was one of the reasons he took out the policy and Great Lakes didnt tell him there 
was restricted cover for Covid-19. 
Our investigator said Great Lakes had reasonably settled the claim.
Mr and Mrs B disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They added:
More explanation about why they thought the use of the word extend in the Covid-
19 Cover section of the policy should mean their claim is covered. They said that 
under the Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy their claim would be covered 
as their trip was cut short. But Great Lakes use of the Covid-19 Cover section only 
limited the circumstances curtailment is covered whereas that section should extend 
the Cutting Short Your Trip section.
The Covid-19 Cover section covers unused accomodation costs if they are denied 
boarding on their pre-booked outbound travel due to contracting Covid-19. With their 
travel arrangements it could be said that every day of the trip was an outbound trip 
until they reached home.
Great Lakes not paying for their food and drink without any other care arrangements 
in place for them was unreasonable and probably against their human rights.
Mrs B was never tested as positive for Covid-19 but she was denied access to the 
prepaid accomodation. The lack of test result for her meant she wasnt entitled to the 
policys Covid benefit and she didnt receive any payment for her food so she was 
disadvantaged twice.
Great Lakes medical assistance team didnt contact them while they were in 
confinement to ask if they needed repatriation to the UK. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr and Mrs B have made but I wont address all their points in 
my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which 
I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
During our investigation Mr and Mrs B raised their concerns that the policy was mis-sold. 
Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to Mr and Mrs B, so Im not commenting on the sale of the 
policy in this decision. If they wish to pursue a complaint about mis-selling theyll need to 
complain to the relevant business and our investigator will contact Mr and Mrs B about that. 
Mr and Mrs B have also now raised their concerns about the service Great Lakes provided 
for their care during their illness. If they want to pursue that matter they will need to first 
complain to Great Lakes about their concerns and if agreement cant be reached they can 
ultimately make a separate complaint about Great Lakes service to us. However, its fair for 
me to tell Mr and Mrs B now that we would generally say its for a policyholder to keep the 
insurer updated about their situation. Mr Bs diary of events attached to his 10 November 
2022 letter to Great Lakes says he told Great Lakes about their situation, said they needed 
no assistance and Great Lakes told him to keep it informed if anything changed. So I think 
its unlikely wed say that Great Lakes acted unreasonably by not contacting them to discuss 
the possibility of repatriating them when it had no information from Mr and Mrs B that 
repatriation may be appropriate.
This decision is about whether Great Lakes settled the claim fairly and reasonably. The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I think Great Lakes fairly and reasonably settled the claim. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes considered Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the Covid-19 section of the policy. Ive 
looked to see if that was fair and reasonable.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says, on page 1 under the heading 
What is not insured?: 
Covid-19, or any related/mutated form of the virus. Unless cover is specified within 
the policy wording. 
The General Exclusions section of the policy says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of
Claims arising from, or related to any coronavirus including but not limited to COVID-
19, or any related/mutated form of the virus unless specifically listed as covered by 
this policy.
So I think Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably by considering Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
under the specific Covid-19 Cover section of the policy as this section is where theres 
specific cover for circumstances relating to Covid-19. 
The Covid-19 Cover section of the policy says:
This section of cover extends the Emergency Medical and repatriation section, the 
Cancellation or Cutting Short Your Trip sections of this policy as follows:
What is covered for Emergency Medical and Repatriation Expenses: We will pay up 
to the amount shown in the table of benefits under section 3a Emergency Medical & 
Repatriation expenses for each insured person who contracts COVID-19, as proven 
by a medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19, during an 
insured trip outside the United Kingdom for the following: 
a) medical expenses (including transportation to the nearest suitable hospital) for the 
immediate needs of an unforeseen medical emergency, when deemed necessary by 
a recognised doctor and agreed by our Medical Officer

d) additional travel and accommodation costs as authorised by our Assistance 
Company up until our Medical Officer advises that you can be repatriated home.

e) a benefit payment of £20 per complete 24 hour period up to £300 where you are 
ordered into self-isolation in your holiday accommodation by a relevant Government 
authority, as a result of you contracting COVID-19.
These are the terms that apply to Mr and Mrs Bs situation and under which Great Lakes has 
paid their claim for the quarantine accomodation. 
I think Great Lakes acted in line with the policy terms and reasonably in not paying for the 
food as the policy terms exclude:
any costs for normal day to day living such as food and drink which you would have 
expected to pay during your trip,Even if the missed cruise was all inclusive of food and drink theres no cover for any 
additional food and drink costs.
The policy terms say Mr and Mrs B need to provide a receipt for any transport costs so 
I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes not to pay for the taxi if there was no receipt.
Mr and Mrs B say Great Lakes was unfair not to pay Mrs B the daily benefit payment when 
she wasnt allowed into the scheduled hotel or on the second cruise. But I think Great Lakes 
acted in line with the policy terms and reasonably in only paying for the daily benefit payment 
for Mr B. The policy terms say Great Lakes will pay the insured expenses and benefit for 
each insured person who contracts COVID-19, as proven by a medically approved test 
showing a positive result for COVID-19. And the policy specifically excludes:
claims relating to any person contracting COVID-19, where this is not proven by a 
medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19.
Mr and Mrs B accept that she didnt have a formal Covid-19 test so Great Lakes have no 
evidence to support that Mrs B also had Covid-19. I dont think Mrs B not being able to stay 
at the scheduled hotel or go on the second cruise necessarily shows she had Covid-19. 
Thats because I think its more likely than not that the regulations which required Mrs B to 
go into the quarantine hotel and not be allowed on the second cruise would also apply 
because shed been in close contact with Mr B who had a positive test. 
The Covid-19 Cover section of the policy continues with the heading What is covered for 
Cancellation and Cutting Short Your Trip which says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for either Section 1. 
Cancellation, or Section 2. Cutting Short Your Trip per insured person for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay which you have paid or are contracted 
to pay, if you were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or 
undertake the trip as a result of:

b) you are denied boarding on your pre-booked outbound travel due to you 
contracting COVID-19, or having a confirmed temperature above 38 degrees Celsius.

or where you have to Cut short your trip as a result of:
a) the death as a result of COVID-19, of a close relative or a member of your 
household living in the United Kingdom.
b) the hospitalisation as a result of COVID-19 for treatment with mechanical 
ventilation, of a close relative or a member of your household living in the United 
Kingdom.
c) you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion following your self 
isolation as ordered by a relevant Government authority due to contracting 
COVID-19, up to a maximum of £350 for all excursions.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B were denied boarding on their pre-booked outbound travel due to 
Covid-19, as they suggest. They werent on their outbound travel, they had left the UK and 
were already part way through their trip when they were told they couldnt continue with the 
trip as planed due to Mr Bs Covid-19. The cover thats available under the policy when a trip is cut short due to Covid-19 is set out 
under (a) to (c) above. The reasons in (a) and (b) dont apply to Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances and Great Lakes has offered under (c) to assess a claim for any pre-booked 
excursions they werent able to go on if they can provide evidence of such exclusions.
Mr and Mrs B believe the Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy would cover their 
claim and theyve explained in detail why they think that as the Covid-19 Cover section says 
that section extends the Cancellation or Cutting Short Your Trip sections of this policy their 
claim should be paid.
Im satisfied that the claim isnt covered under the Cutting Short Your Trip section of the 
policy. The policy defines Cut short/Cutting short as:
 
Either:
a) the immediate direct early return from your trip to your home country, in which 
case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your home country 
and based on the number of complete days of your trip you have not used, or
b) being a hospital in-patient outside your home country for a period in excess of 48  
hours.
Mr and Mrs B didnt return home and they werent a hospital inpatient. So their claim isnt 
covered by the cutting short policy terms. There are certain, exceptional situations where 
I might consider that it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to consider a 
policyholders trip as having been in effect curtailed where theyve been forced to isolate in 
their accommodation rather than continue a trip. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to step outside a strict application of the policy 
wording in these circumstances because the circumstances that Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in were due to Covid-19 and the policy cover for that situation is under the 
Covid-19 Cover policy terms Ive set out above.
The Covid-19 Cover section of the policy extends the Cutting Short Your Trip section so 
that the policy provides cover when a trip is cut short due to Covid-19 due to the reasons set 
out under (a) to (c) above of the Covid-19 Cover section.
Im satisfied that Great Lakes fairly and reasonably considered the claim under the Covid-19 
Cover section of the policy and that its settlement of the claim is fair and reasonable,
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman