DRN-2732221
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited unfairly recorded a missed payment marker against his 
credit file following a late payment.
What happened
Mr W holds a credit card with MBNA. In March 2020 his wife and child fell ill with suspected 
coronavirus, and as a result, his monthly repayment was made four days late. So MBNA 
reported a missed payment marker on his credit file. 
Mr W complained. He said the late payment was an oversight due to his familys ill health, so 
he thinks it unfair of MBNA to report it to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). He also said 
hes unhappy with how he and his wife were spoken to when MBNA called him to discuss his 
complaint; and that the wrong date had been reported for the late payment. He also thinks it 
should be recorded as late, and not missed.  
 
MBNA said they appreciated Mr W was going through a difficult time, but they had an 
obligation to report accurate information to CRAs, and therefore, would not be asking them 
to remove the missed payment marker, as they were satisfied it had been recorded correctly. 
They also said that having reviewed the call that Mr W was unhappy with, they felt there 
were no issues with how it was handled.  
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ws complaint. She thought MBNA were right to report the 
late payment to the CRAs, and she didnt think the staff member that spoke with Mr W and 
his wife had acted unprofessionally. So she didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. But 
Mr W remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say firstly that I appreciate this must have been a worrying time for Mr W given his 
concerns about his wife and childs health. I can only imagine how stressful a situation this 
must have been for him. 
When considering a case of this type, its useful to point out to begin with that banks and 
financial services companies have an obligation to provide credit reference agencies with 
information on how customers accounts are managed. This is because other lenders may 
rely on that information when it comes to making credit decisions. This includes information 
on late and missed payments. 
Mr Ws payment was due on 23 March 2020, but was not paid until the 27 March 2020  four 
days later. Mr W has explained this was due to the stress of his family being ill with 
suspected Coronavirus. So I appreciate why this may have slipped his mind. 
Equally, I can see Mr W was sent an SMS message in February 2020 telling him his 
statement was ready to view, which set out his March payment due date. He was also sent a 
payment reminder by both SMS and email in the week leading up to his due date. So while I 
truly appreciate why the payment due date was missed, I think MBNA has fulfilled its 
obligations in making him aware of when it was due. So given what Ive said above, I dont 
think the circumstances, while distressing, remove MBNAs obligation to report the late 
payment to the credit reference agencies, as it accurately reflects the performance of his 
account.
Mr Ws said that as the payment was still paid in March 2020, (albeit four days after the date 
due) that it should be recorded on his credit file as late rather than missed. 
I should explain that when recording information on a credit file, payments that are not made 
on time, are reported through status codes  such as 1, 2 etc. Amongst other things, these 
numbers can reflect payments that were missed. While I accept that Mr W did in fact make a 
payment in March 2020, this payment was not made by its due date. So I think MBNA were 
right to record a 1 against the month of March 2020, as the payment for this month was not 
made on time. So I think its fair to consider it as missed. 
Mr W has said he is unhappy with how he and his wife were spoken to when MBNA called to 
discuss his complaint. Ive now listened to this call, and having done so, I dont think it went 
as well as it couldve. Mr Ws wife was clearly upset with the situation and the pressure her 
and her family had been under, and at times I think there was some confusion about what 
was being asked.
There was a lot of frustration during this call, and Mr W and his wife were unhappy about the 
late payment being recorded against them, as this was not in line with how they usually 
manage their accounts. And I think MBNA could have shown more empathy towards their 
situation at the time. I also think that when Mr W asked MBNA to discuss the matter with his 
wife, it was unhelpful that MBNA responded with, no I can speak with you its fine. 
However, from the tone of MBNAs response to Mr Ws request, I think the staff member was 
trying to communicate that it wasnt necessary to speak Mr Ws wife, and that she was fine 
to discuss the matter with him; not realising Mr W was making a specific request for his wife 
to take over the call. But overall, I think the questions asked were warranted, given the 
nature of Mr Ws complaint. So I wont be asking MBNA to take any action in relation to this 
call. 
If Mr W still feels that the missed payment marker being recorded against him is unfair, he 
can look to add a notice of correction to his credit file. This should be less than 200 words, 
but will allow Mr W to provide an explanation to potential creditors, that they will see at the 
time of any future credit applications. 
In summary, I accept Mr W has found himself in a difficult predicament, and I appreciate why 
his payment was overlooked. But MBNA had an obligation to report accurate information to 
the CRAs, and based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied they were right in doing so.
Im aware that Mr W has pointed out that the late payment has been recorded on his credit 
file for the month of May instead of March. MBNA has now confirmed, that if it has been 
reported incorrectly, they will arrange for this to be amended. 
Mr W and his family have clearly been through a really difficult time, and I do hope he feels 
that I have taken his concerns seriously. But for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding 
his complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman