DRN-2012443
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C made an escape of water claim, which had caused damage to his home. He made a 
claim on his home insurance policy which Aviva agreed to deal with. It appointed various 
contractors, including a drying company and builders, to dry out the property and carry out 
the repairs. Aviva told Mr C the works would take six weeks, so alternative accommodation 
was arranged for him and wife for that time.
After six weeks, the works still werent complete. But Mr Cs alternative accommodation had 
ended, and he hadnt been able to find anywhere else to stay. So he and his wife moved 
back into their home. They found the repairs were of a poor standard and they didnt feel 
their home was safe.
Avivas contractors took 11 weeks to carry out the works. Mr C was very unhappy with the 
workmanship and he complained. Aviva acknowledged the works were of a poor standard. It 
offered to send a new supplier to put things right. Mr C didnt want another of Avivas 
contractors to fix the issues and got a quote from his own contractor to get things fixed. This 
quote was for around £5000.
Aviva thought the costs were too high. It offered Mr C a settlement based on what it wouldve 
cost its own contractor to do the works, together with a disturbance allowance payment and 
it refunded Mr Cs policy excess payment as compensation. 
Mr C went ahead and got his own contractor to get the works done at a total cost of around 
£4000. He still wasnt happy with Avivas position and he complained. Aviva ultimately 
offered Mr C a further £1200 to settle his complaint. But Mr C remained unhappy with 
Avivas offer and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She felt his contractors 
costs seemed excessive and she thought Aviva had clearly explained to Mr C that it was 
only prepared to pay what it wouldve cost its own contractor to get things fixed. But hed 
chosen to go ahead with getting his contractor to do the repairs. She felt Aviva had done 
enough to put right its mistakes.
Mr C disagreed. He questioned how Aviva had calculated part of its settlement. He also 
questioned why itd taken Avivas contractors so many weeks to get the works done, but his 
contractor had got everything done within a few days. He felt Aviva had lost control of 
managing the claim. He pointed out how stressful things had been for both him and his wife 
due to Avivas handling of the claim. He didnt think Aviva had treated him fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mr C fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr C that while Ive summarised his complaint, Ive read and 
considered everything hes sent us in detail. Ive looked carefully at the photos hes sent us 
of the work done by Avivas contractors, and I appreciate how strongly he feels about how 
Aviva and its suppliers handled his claim. In dealing with Mr Cs complaint, Ive focused on 
what I think are the key issues though, rather than considering each specific point hes 
raised. 
It's clear there have been many issues with the way Aviva and its contractors have handled 
Mr Cs claim. It took significantly longer than Mr C had been told at first. His alternative 
accommodation had ended before the works were completed and so, he returned home 
while his house wasnt ready. I can also see from the photos that the work Avivas 
contractors carried out was of a poor standard. I entirely appreciate how frustrating and 
upsetting this mustve been for Mr C and for his wife.
I can also understand why by this point, the relationship between Mr C and Aviva had broken 
down. Mr C had lost faith in the ability of Avivas suppliers to get the repairs done to the 
necessary standard and thered been a number of suppliers already involved in the claim. So 
I understand why Mr C didnt want Avivas suppliers to finish the works. On this basis, I think 
it was reasonable for Aviva to offer Mr C the choice either to use a new supplier from its 
repair network, or a cash settlement.
The policy terms and conditions set out how Aviva may choose to settle claims. It states that 
Aviva may settle by replacing, reinstating, repairing or by payment. Aviva initially chose to 
settle Mr Cs claim by using its suppliers to carry out the works. Once the relationship had 
broken down, Aviva gave Mr C the choice about how he wanted it to go ahead with the 
claim. Mr C chose a cash payment.
The policy says: If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
It seems to me that Avivas new preferred contractor couldve carried out the necessary 
repairs. But because Mr C chose to take up the cash settlement option, I think this term 
applies to his claim. So I think it was fair for Aviva to limit the settlement to what it wouldve 
cost its supplier to get the works done.
Ive seen a scope of works showing what works were needed and how much they would cost 
Aviva. Im satisfied that this was the limit of Avivas liability for the cost of Mr Cs repairs. I 
also think Aviva made it sufficiently clear to Mr C that it wasnt prepared to pay any more 
than this amount before he employed his own contractor to carry out the repairs. This means 
I dont think Aviva needs to pay Mr C anything further towards the cost he incurred for the 
repairs.
Aviva also paid Mr C an amount of £250 for disturbance allowance and I appreciate hes 
queried the breakdown with it. It seems this was calculated on the basis of the loss of the 
use of the kitchen. On top of this, Aviva offered Mr C a further £1200 in full and final 
settlement of his claim for him. £700 of this amount was in lieu of food allowance. I think it 
was reasonable for Aviva to recognise that Mr C and his wife were being put to some 
inconvenience as a result of the delays in their home being ready. And I think a total of £950 
for disturbance and food allowance seems fair.As Ive acknowledged, I appreciate Mr C has been put to a great deal of frustration and 
inconvenience as a result of the handling of his claim. Aviva initially refunded Mr Cs policy 
excess of £200 to recognise his distress and inconvenience. I dont think this wouldve been 
enough to reflect the impact the claim had on Mr C. But Im pleased to see that £500 of the 
£1200 further payment Aviva made to Mr C was to recognise the inconvenience hed 
experienced  especially as he was no longer in alternative accommodation. 
This means Aviva has paid Mr C a total amount of £700 for the inconvenience the handling 
of the claim caused him. I think this is a fair award for his inconvenience and the impact the 
claim had on him.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Cs position, I think Aviva was entitled to limit the cash 
settlement for repairs to what it would cost its own contractor. And I think the payments its 
made for Mr Cs disturbance and inconvenience are fair and reasonable. So Im not telling 
Aviva to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman