DRN-3660252
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr T saw an investment opportunity on social media and contacted the 
individual who posted it. She said she was a freelance trader specialising in forex trading 
and derivatives and would trade on his behalf in return for a 20% commission. The minimum 
investment amount was £600 and there would be a guaranteed profit of £4,900 within an 
hour. Mr T was also told about a premium fee if profits exceeded £7,000. 
Once Mr T had been provided with initial details, he was passed on to an investment co-
ordinator who communicated with him via WhatsApp. Mr T paid £600 via online banking. 
Within an hour the trader told Mr T he had made £15,368 and would need to pay a premium 
fee of £4,000 to release it. Mr T asked if the fee could be deducted from the profit but was 
told it was a separate fee and this wasnt possible, so he paid the fee to the account details 
provided to him. The trader told Mr T the fee hadnt been received and to call his bank but to 
say he was making a bill payment to avoid tax implications. 
Mr T paid the £4,000 fee but was then told that as a result of the delay his profits had 
increased, and he needed to pay a further £3,000 premium fee but it would be the last 
payment. Mr T made this payment via online banking but when he didnt receive any profit 
and the broker blocked contact with him, he realised he was the victim of a scam. He called 
HSBC to report the scam the day after he made the three payments.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) and has considered Mr Ts claim under it. HSBC said it 
provided clear and effective warnings in respect of the £600 and £3,000 payments. The 
£4,000 payment triggered a review, but HSBC sent a text to Mr T to confirm the payment 
was genuine but missed the opportunity to call him. HSBC only agreed to refund 50% of this 
payment though, as it said Mr T failed to complete any checks to satisfy himself the 
investment was genuine so should share the loss. 
HSBC tried to recover Mr Ts funds but was unable to do so. 
Our investigator so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ts complaint recommended that HSBC also refund Mr 
T 50% of the final payment of £3,000. He said this because HSBC didnt provide an effective 
warning in respect of this payment. Also, this payment wouldnt have been made if HSBC 
had called Mr T when he made the previous payment of £4,000 as the scam would have 
been uncovered. But the investigator felt that liability should be shared as Mr T didnt 
complete any checks before making the payment, the rate of return he was offered was 
unrealistic, he found the investment on social media and Mr T paid three individuals with no 
connection to the trader or the individual who posted the investment opportunity on social 
media. 
HSBC agreed with the investigators view, but Mr T didnt. In summary, he said:
- It was unfair of the investigator to think the average customer could easily spot the 
hallmarks of a scam.
- He is not an investor.
- There are a lot of similar investment profiles on social media.
- Mr T assumed the investment was legitimate because of videos posted at the time of 
live forex trades.
- He is the victim of a scam and the payments made didnt represent normal account 
activity.  
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigators findings the complaint was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Ive considered whether HSBC should have reimbursed Mr T under the provisions of the 
CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr T was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Mr T to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr T too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr T 
and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns HSBC has raised about the legitimacy 
of the transactions Mr T made are enough to support its position that he failed to meet his 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I dont think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or that the person he 
transacted with was legitimate and will explain why. I should also say that its the 
combination of these factors that lead me to believe Mr T didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief and that none of them can be considered alone. 
-Mr T contacted someone from a social media site after seeing the investment opportunity. Social media is not an investment platform. 
-All contact with Mr T was via Whatsapp which is not what Id expect of a legitimate 
trader.
-Mr T was only provided with what the scammer/s referred to as terms and conditions, 
which were very short and only covered the premium fee. This ought reasonably to 
have been a red flag to Mr T that something wasnt right. 
-The investment Mr T was offered did not sound genuine and the rate of return he 
was offered and the timescale to receive it were too good to be true. Mr T invested 
£600 and was told hed receive a profit of £4,900 within an hour. This is a rate of 
return of over 800% which Mr T was told was guaranteed. All investment involves an 
element of risk and forex trading is particularly risky, so what Mr T was offered was 
implausible even to a novice investor. 
-Mr T says he thinks the scammer named a company they worked for but there is no 
reference to this in the messages he has shared. Genuine traders work for 
companies that need to be regulated.
-Mr T didnt complete any research in respect of the person who offered the 
investment and didnt check any reviews. The coordinator provided an FCA number 
which Im uncertain if Mr T checked. In any event, the number is for an individual who 
is registered with the FCA but there is nothing to say that the person messaging Mr T 
was this registered person. 
-Mr T paid three different individual payees, none of whom were the original social 
media influencer or the coordinator he was referred to. This is not what Id expect if 
Mr T was investing through a genuine company and I dont consider the explanation 
he was given by the scammer was particularly persuasive. I think Mr T ought 
reasonably to have had concerns he was paying individuals rather than a company 
too. 
-Mr T wasnt given a plausible reason for the need to pay fees to release his funds 
and the amount of the premium fee wasnt clearly set out initially. Genuine traders 
have to disclose fees and commission.
-The warnings Mr T was given by HSBC in the payment journeys should have led him 
to take additional steps before transferring funds.  
I appreciate Mr T wasnt an experienced investor and found videos on social media of live 
forex trades to be persuasive. But overall, I dont consider Mr T did enough to satisfy himself 
he was making a genuine investment and so HSBC is entitled to rely on an exception to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code.  
 
Did HSBC meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
Even though I dont think Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief when he made the transfers, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if HSBC didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM Code. The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised 
push payment scam risks in a payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to 
provide effective warnings (as set out in the CRM Code) to their customers. The Code also 
says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve 
consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on 
preventing the scam. 
I dont believe HSBC should have identified an APP scam risk when Mr T made the first 
payment of £600 as it wasnt a particularly unusual payment. But I think HSBC should have 
provided effective scam warnings when Mr T made the £4,000 and £3,000 payments. Ive 
considered the warning HSBC provided to Mr T when he made these payments but am not persuaded it was effective. The warning contains a lot of useful information such as the fact 
that fraudsters can offer what appears to be a genuine investment opportunity with high 
returns and that a customer must independently research who they are sending money to. 
The warning also advises customers to check the FCA website to see if a company is 
genuine and authorised. 
But HSBCs warning doesnt bring to life social media investment scams like this one and 
explain common features of them. Overall I think the warning lacks impact and isnt effective. 
So I believe that under the CRM Code HSBC should refund half of the £4,000 and £3,000 
payments, plus interest.   
Should HSBC have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr T? 
Im also mindful that when Mr T made these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers are at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the payments 
Mr T made were unusual or suspicious. 
Ive already said I dont consider the first payment of £600 to be unusual or out of character 
given normal payment and account activity. HSBC says it triggered the £4,000 payment for a 
review but sent a text message rather than calling Mr T to discuss it. So HSBC recognised a 
risk but didnt go far enough and for this reason HSBC refunded 50% of this payment. I 
consider it acted reasonably in doing so. If HSBC had spoken to Mr T about the reason for 
the payment and asked some basic details about it, Im satisfied the scam would have been 
uncovered given the implausibility of what the scammers told him. 
If the £4,000 payment had been prevented the final payment wouldnt have made, so I think 
HSBC should also refund half of this payment. I am not recommending a full refund for 
largely the same reasons as I have set out above in respect of Mr Ts reasonable basis for 
belief.
The significance of my conclusion that HSBC could have prevented the second and third 
payments from being made is that interest should be paid from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement.  
Did HSBC do enough to recover Mr Ts funds?
Ive also considered HSBCs actions once it was made aware of the scam. Im satisfied 
HSBC contacted the banks that received Mr Ts funds on the day the scam was reported 
and so dont think it could have done any more. 
Overall, Im persuaded that HSBC should have done more in respect of the payments of 
£4,000 and £3,000 but Mr T should receive half of these payments because he didnt 
complete relevant checks before making them. HSBC has already refunded half of the 
£4,000 payment so it only needs to refund half of the final payment now. 
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank PLC to:
-Refund a further £1,500;
-Pay interest on the above amount at the originating savings account rate from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement (less any tax that is lawfully deductible).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman