DRN-3146275
The complaint
Mr V complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr V was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. 
Mr V experienced some issues with the car. As the car was still under warranty, the 
supplying dealer replaced the engine sensor at no cost to Mr V in August 2018.
Mr V continued to experience issues. In September 2018 he complained to MotoNovo and 
said the car was at a  third party garage who had confirmed that the timing chain and inlet 
manifold had failed.
MotoNovo said it would arrange an independent inspection of the car. however, Mr V said 
that the third-party garage had already carried out repairs, and he was seeking a refund of 
the cost of these. 
In its final response, MotoNovo said it couldnt investigate Mr Vs complaint because the car 
had already been repaired.
Mr V wasnt happy with the response. He said there was a fault with the car when it was 
supplied. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think the car was durable, and that a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect to experience issues with parts such as the timing chain 
and inlet manifold after having the car for only 4 months. The investigator said that these 
issues shouldve been diagnosed by the supplying dealer in August 2018 when it repaired 
the engine sensor. The investigator said MotoNovo should refund Mr V the cost of repairs 
and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that although durability was a measure of satisfactory quality, 
the car was a used car and some wear and tear was to be expected. It said that it had asked 
Mr V not to authorise repairs whilst it had investigated the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and 
durability. I would expect a secondhand car  such as that supplied to Mr V  to have a 
degree of wear and tear and to require repairs and maintenance more often than a brand 
new car. In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault 
with the car at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply. The business is allowed 
one opportunity to repair the fault and bring the car up to a satisfactory standard. If the repair 
isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Ive looked at the report from the third party garage dated December 2018. This says that 
the inlet manifold and timing chain have failed. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
theres  a fault with the car.
I can see that there was a previous fault with the car which necessitated a repair to the 
engine sensor in August 2018. Repairs were carried out by the supplying dealer. 
Ive taken account of information which suggests that the supplying dealer carried out repairs 
to the inlet camshaft solenoid in April 2018, which was shortly before Mr V purchased the 
car. This repair is similar to the repair carried out by the third party garage in December 2018 
and suggests that there may have been an ongoing issue in this part of the engine.
MotoNovo has said that it was prevented from inspecting the car and arranging repairs 
because Mr V authorised repairs at the third party garage. I understand the point MotoNovo 
makes here, however, the car had already been inspected by the supplying dealer in August 
2018, which was around 4 months after the point of supply, so I think this was a relevant 
opportunity to identify the fault and carry out repairs in accordance with the relevant 
legislation.
Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car at the point of supply. The car was 
around 7 years old and had covered around 63,500 miles. I can see that the fault with the 
timing chain and inlet manifold occurred around 7 months after the point of supply, by which 
time the mileage was around 64,900.
Ive thought about whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point  of supply. Ive 
already said that theres some evidence to suggest that there may have been a  pre-existing 
issue. But I also think that a reasonable person would find it unacceptable that such major 
component parts of the engine failed after only a few months into the agreement and after 
relatively little mileage. This calls into question the durability of the car, which is an aspect of 
satisfactory quality.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im persuaded, on the balance of probability, that 
there was a fault with the car which was present or developing at the point of supply. Im also 
persuaded that the car wasnt durable, because of the nature of the faults which occurred so 
soon into the agreement.
Putting things right
Mr V has paid for repairs to the car. I dont think it was unreasonable for him to do this, 
because hed already retuned the car to the supplying dealer once for repairs and the issues 
had continued. I think that a fair resolution would be for MotoNovo to refund Mr V the cost of 
repairs in the sum of £2319.35. 
Mr V has suffered inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a  car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to return the car to the garage more than once and has had to 
drive the car when it wasnt functioning as it should. I think its fair to ask MotoNovo to 
compensate Mr V for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
Refund Mr V the sum of £2,319.35
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Pay 8% simple interest on the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman