DRN-3772917
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc surrounding 
blocks being placed on his accounts.
What happened
Mr G has a current account and a credit account with Co-op. Mr G noticed his debit card 
wasnt working, so he contacted Co-op and was told that a temporary block had been placed 
on his account because Co-op wanted to verify some account transactions with him. Mr G 
verified the transactions with Co-op, who said that theyd remove the block on his account. 
Not long afterwards, Mr G found that his debit card was rejected at an ATM and his credit 
card was declined. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Co-op explained 
to Mr G that they hadnt blocked either of his accounts and that the debit card had been 
declined because the wrong PIN had been inputted at the ATM, while the credit card had 
been declined because Mr Gs credit account was over the agreed credit limit. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with Co-ops explanation, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Co-op had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and they felt Co-op had provided accurate 
explanations of what had happened to Mr G. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that after Co-op removed the temporary block that theyd 
placed for security purposes on Mr Gs account, that no further blocks were placed by Co-op 
on either the current account or credit account as Mr G contends. 
This is because Im satisfied from the information provided to this service that the reason the 
debit card was declined in the ATM was because the wrong PIN number was inputted for 
that card. Im aware that Mr G is adamant that this wasnt the case, but I find the record 
present on Co-ops systems of the incorrect PIN being inputted into the ATM to be 
persuasive here, and I feel its more likely that the wrong PIN was inputted, and correctly 
recorded by Co-op, rather than that the correct PIN was inputted, but incorrectly recognised 
by Co-ops systems and recorded as being the wrong PIN.
Co-op have also been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that Mr Gs credit account was 
over the agreed credit limit at the time he complained about his credit card being declined. It 
therefore seems reasonable to me that Mr Gs credit card would be declined at that time, 
given that Mr G had no remaining credit left available to him to use.
Finally, Im aware that Mr G is unhappy that Co-op placed the temporary block that they did 
on his current account in the first instance. Co-op have confirmed that the reason for this 
block was because their fraud prevention systems had flagged concerns about the validity of 
some of the transactions on Mr Gs account, and it was for this reason they placed the block 
on Mr Gs account.
This seems reasonable to me, especially given that Co-op, like all banks, have an obligation 
to protect their customers money as much as possible, and that fraud prevention systems, 
such as the one that flagged Mr Gs account transactions, are commonly used by banks to 
help them meet these obligations. As such, I dont feel that Co-op placing the temporary 
block on Mr Gs account as they did was unreasonable.
All of which means that I dont feel that Co-op have acted unfairly towards Mr G as he 
contends here. This is because Im satisfied that it was fair for Co-op to have placed the 
temporary block on his current account as they did, and also that Co-op didnt subsequently 
block either his current account or credit account, and that the difficulties Mr G experienced 
using the cards on those accounts was the result of the inputting of an incorrect PIN and a 
lack of available credit on the account respectively. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any further action. I hope that 
Mr G will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman