DRN-1963785
The complaint
Ms H complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in April 2000 when she took out a store card. Ms H couldnt 
remember much about the sale. AXA said that the sale took place in-store, and that Ms H 
wasnt advised to take the policy. Ms H said the policy wasnt properly explained to her.
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Ms H owed on her store card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid 
out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This wouldve carried on 
until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also included life cover and 
purchase and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ms H didnt agree and so the complaint has 
come to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent us a copy of Ms Hs store card application. I can see that theres a section headed 
account cover (the name of the PPI policy), in which Ms H has signed  separately from her 
signature for the card  to say that she wanted the PPI. Theres nothing on the application 
form to suggest that Ms H wouldnt have been given the card without the PPI. So I think its 
most likely that Ms H had a choice about taking it and decided to do so. 
Im satisfied AXA didnt advise Ms H to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to make sure the 
policy was suitable for her. But it should still have given her enough information for her to 
decide if the policy was right for her.
I cant know how the salesperson explained the policy, including the things not covered. But I 
dont think Ms H would have been affected by any of these. There are basic details of the 
PPI cover on the application form, including the premium (described as a penny in the 
pound of your monthly balance) and theres a reference to another document giving more 
information about the cover, but I dont have a copy of that. So its possible the information 
about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
Ms H told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer of six months full pay followed by three months half pay. She also told us she 
had some savings she couldve relied on. On balance I think Ms H could have found it 
difficult to make the payments on her card once her sick pay reduced or if shed lost her job. 
So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit, also allowing her to use her savings for 
her everyday living expenses. 
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Ms H 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means Ms H isnt worse off as a result of 
what AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman