DRN-1944427
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about how The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has dealt with his feedback 
about a spelling mistake on its online screen.
What happened
Mr B says he noticed a spelling mistake on Co-op's online screen which he told it about. He 
says Co-op has misrepresented his complaint as a suggestion and hasn't corrected the 
mistake despite telling him it had. Mr B also complains about Co-op's online message facility 
which he says doesn't accept certain characters and about how Co-op has dealt with his 
complaint. He would like Co-op to acknowledge the spelling mistake and his complaints. He 
would also like Co-op to improve its customer care and change its processes about these 
matters as well as pay him compensation for the stress he has been caused.
Co-op didn't uphold Mr B's complaint and says it can't provide feedback to customers in 
these circumstances.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and says Co-op has lied by telling him it had corrected the 
mistake and also makes a further complaint about a new payee details being duplicated 
when using online banking. He says he can't get access to people within Co-op that matter.
Co-op says it has given Mr B guidance about the duplication and says it can't make 
immediate changes to its systems and says those systems don't accept certain characters 
and symbols.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't uphold it. The investigator didn't think it 
our role to tell Co-op how it runs its business or that it should change its process.
Mr B doesn't accept that view and says the mistake has still not been corrected and 
maintains that we ought to tell Co-op to sort out the problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that I don't uphold this complaint and don't require Co-op to take any further 
action. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he 
feels about what's happened.
I make clear to Mr B that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies, which 
means in practice we do not, for example, discipline a business or direct that it changes the 
way it runs its business. I appreciate Mr B's frustration that he noticed a spelling error and 
wanted in those circumstances for the mistake to be corrected. But its not our role to tell Co-
op that it must correct that mistake, and we do not have the legal authority to do so in any 
event. I'm satisfied that it's up to Co-op to decide how it treats customer feedback and it's 
entitled to exercise its commercial judgement about such matters. It follows that I also can't direct Co-op change its online messaging process and allow certain characters and symbols 
to be used or order it to deal with complaints differently.
I'm satisfied that Co-op fairly gave Mr B a solution about the duplication of the payee details. 
I appreciate that is not Mr B's main complaint.
Overall I'm satisfied that we can't help Mr B achieve the resolution he would like or assist 
him in trying to access those within Co-op that, as he says, matter. I accept that Co-op told 
Mr B that it had corrected the mistake when in fact it had only corrected one screen. I don't 
think that was a deliberate attempt to lie to Mr B but on balance was more likely to have 
been a mistake that had a limited impact.
I accept Mr B will remain unhappy with my decision but I'm satisfied this brings an end to 
what we can do informally to help him. I appreciate Mr B would like compensation for the 
stress he has been caused and for his time in telling Co-op about the spelling mistake. I 
can't fairly order such compensation for the reasons I have explained and I think it was Mr 
B's choice to spend time on this complaint and to correspond with Co-op.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman