DRN-1564198
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Assurant General Insurance Ltd has unfairly turned down his mobile 
phone insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr N contacted Assurant, his mobile phone insurer, to tell them about a claim 
under his Tech Pack insurance policy. He said he believed his mobile phone was stolen 
from his backpack while he was in a pub. Assurant looked into things but turned down his 
claim. This was because it said Mr Ns account wasnt consistent, especially about the SIM 
card that was in the phone at the time of the theft.
As Mr N wasnt happy about this he complained to Assurant and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that there 
wasnt a link between the SIM card Mr N had said was in the phone at the time of the theft 
and the phone. So, he didnt think that Assurant had acted unreasonably in turning down the 
claim.
As Mr N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done this I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld, Ill explain why. 
I know Mr N doesnt feel that Assurant should look into the circumstances surrounding his 
claim as much as it has. But it is usual for insurers to investigate claims that are presented. 
And I would expect any insurance company to look into the circumstances of any insurance 
claim and this is set out in the policy. There is a responsibility on any policy holder to answer 
an insurers questions about their claim and to provide proof of their claim. 
When Mr N made his claim for the theft of his phone, he explained that he had a particular 
brand of mobile phone companys SIM card in the phone at the time it was stolen. Assurant 
asked Mr N to get a crime reference number to show that his phone was stolen. And it 
carried out a few checks and established that this SIM card wasnt in the phone at the time 
of theft as Mr N had said. 
Mr N then explained that he had another SIM card with a different provider which mustve 
been in the phone at the time of theft. But the use of this SIM could only be aligned with the 
phone a month before the theft, so I dont think it is unreasonable for Assurant to question 
this and the claim generally.
I know Mr N thinks that the actual device should be covered and so the SIM card shouldnt 
make any difference. But Assurant is entitled to establish the movement and use of the 
phone and as Mr Ns account isnt consistent, I can understand why it has questions about the claim. And the terms and conditions of the policy say that his phone must have a SIM 
that enables the phone to connect to a network provider and this must be in full working 
order.
Given all of this and the inconsistencies outlined, I dont think that Assurant has acted 
unreasonably in turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman