DRN-3746462
The complaint
Miss C complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss C is covered by her employers income protection scheme, the aim of which is to pay
benefit in the event she cant work due to illness or injury. The scheme has a deferred period
of 26 weeks.
In June 2020, Miss C stopped work. A claim was made to Unum, however this was turned
down as Unum thought Miss C wasnt incapacitated, as defined by the scheme terms and
conditions.
Miss C complained to Unum about its claims decision, as well as its handling of her claim
and complaint.
Unum offered Miss C £200 compensation for its handling of her complaint. Miss C brought
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unums claims
decision had been reasonable, based on the medical evidence. Whilst she accepted that
Unum had made some errors in its handling of the claim, she didnt think Unum needed to
do anything to put matters right and didnt think it had caused any unnecessary delays.
Finally, she said this service couldnt consider Unums handling of Miss Cs complaint which
related to consent.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme terms say:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury
Ive therefore considered the evidence throughout the 26-week deferred period after Miss C 
stopped work in June 2020, and beyond. 
When Miss C submitted her claim to Unum, she explained that she felt she had been bullied 
and discriminated against by her employer. I understand she pursued a grievance against 
her employer.
Throughout the deferred period, Miss C was signed off work by her GP with stress-related 
illness.
In July 2020 Miss C had a consultation with her GP. She discussed her grievance at work, 
and also confirmed she had started counselling. Over the next few months, Miss C 
continued to report work-related stress. Then in October 2020 Miss C advised the GP she 
was still having problems at work and was feeling stressed, though she thought speaking to 
her counsellor helped. In November 2020, Miss C said her grievance at work had not been 
resolved, and she felt anxious. She said she was having counselling through work, but this 
had come to an end.
I note that following this, the GP commented that all of Miss Cs symptoms were triggered by 
thinking about work. The GP said they would only issue a further sick note for one month, as 
it had been five months and they thought there needed to be a better plan going forwards.  
The GP did continue to provide sick notes. Though in April 2021, the GP provided a further 
sick note but said that this was a work-related matter and asked Miss C to find a solution in a 
timely manner. They said if she could not work for her current employer, she should consider 
alternative employment as they would not be able to sign her off indefinitely.
Overall, I find it was reasonable for Unum to turn down Miss Cs claim. It seems the reason 
for Miss Cs absence was her perception of how she was being treated by her employer. I 
appreciate that this caused Miss C stress and anxiety and likely impacted how she felt about 
returning to work for her own employer. However, the medical evidence does not support 
that she was suffering from a mental health condition which prevented her from carrying out 
the material and substantial duties of her occupation.
Miss C has also raised concerns about Unums handling of her claim and complaint.
I note that it took several months for Unum to reach a claims decision. Though I see that for 
much of this, Unum was waiting for information from third parties. Unum has also explained 
that it wanted Miss Cs job description before finalising its decision, and it did not receive this 
from her employer until January 2022. That does not seem unreasonable. It then provided its 
claims decision a few days after this. I dont find that Unum caused any unnecessary delays 
in its handling of the claim. 
Unum did mistakenly advise Miss C in January 2022 that it had requested information from 
her GP. However, when Miss C queried this, Unum explained that this correspondence had 
been sent in error. I appreciate that, after receiving the correspondence, Miss C was 
concerned that the claims decision would be delayed further. However, she was reassured 
on this point when she spoke with Unum, which I think was appropriate. 
I think Unum did cause Miss C some unnecessary upset regarding her consent for personal 
information to be shared. When Miss C submitted her claim to Unum, she asked Unum not 
to share sensitive information with her employer. After Miss C complained about Unums 
claims decision, Unum advised Miss Cs employer that she had altered her consent and 
would only allow it to advise the employer of the outcome. Unum suggested Miss Cs 
employer discuss the matter with her.
It seems there was confusion on Unums part because Miss C had signed a claim form 
which gave Unum consent to share her information with her employer. But given that Unum 
was aware from the outset that Miss C did not want it to do this, I think Unum was mistaken 
when it said that Miss C had altered her consent.I dont agree with Miss C that Unum was pressurising her employer to give up her privacy.
But I do think Unum could have handled things differently. It later asked the employer if it
could provide a more detailed response directly to Miss C, which seems to have been a
reasonable compromise.
Furthermore, I understand that Unum advised Miss C that it had written to her employer
about providing the more detailed response directly to her. However, this hadnt actually
happened at that point.
I accept that Unum made mistakes here, but I see it paid Miss C £200 compensation for any
upset caused to her. I find this was a reasonable amount of compensation in the
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman