DRN-1408358
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with her claim under 
her mobile phone insurance. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mrs S has mobile phone insurance through her bank account, Assurant is the insurer. She 
made a claim for her damaged phone which Assurant accepted. As the phone was beyond 
repair Assurant sent Mrs S a replacement phone to settle the claim. The replacement phone 
had a warranty with Assurant.
A couple of weeks later Mrs S told Assurant the replacement phone kept crashing and 
switching itself off. Assurant sent Mrs S a prepaid Royal Mail special delivery bag for her to 
return the phone which it intended to repair or replace under the warranty. 
When Assurant received the phone it said the phone had a different IMEI number than the 
IMEI of the replacement phone it had sent to Mrs S. Also the phone screen was cracked. 
Assurant wouldnt repair the phone under the warranty due to the discrepancy with the IMEI 
numbers and the warranty didnt cover damage. 
Mrs S complained to us. In brief she said:
the phone she returned to Assurant was the phone it had sent to her
she hadnt been asked to confirm the phones IMEI to Assurant as part of its 
replacement procedure
she had no motive to send back a different faulty phone when she wanted it repaired
the phones screen must have cracked in transit as the prepaid envelope didnt give 
enough protection. She detailed why she thought she wasnt responsible for damage 
to the phone in transit.
Our investigator said Assurant had acted fairly.
Mrs S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said Assurant had the 
advantage of being able to forge evidence about the phones IMEI. She also raised that 
when Assurant returned the broken replacement phone to her it didnt return the phones 
accessories shed sent.
Mrs S wants Assurant to either repair the software fault and screen on the replacement 
phone and return her accessories or return the accessories and refund the £25 excess she 
paid for making the claim for her original damaged phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has correctly explained that Mrs S will need to make a separate complaint 
to Assurant about the accessories not being returned if that issue is still in dispute.
I need to decide whether Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in not repairing or replacing 
the phone Mrs S returned, and I think it did. I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered Mrs S detailed comments. I wont refer to all the points shes made, Ill focus 
on the mains points to explain my decision. 
Assurant says that before a phone is sent to a consumer the phones IMEI number is 
scanned in its warehouse and uploaded onto its system. Ive seen evidence that the IMEI of 
the replacement phone it sent Mrs S ended in 005. The phone Mrs S returned  had an IMEI 
ending in 082. Assurant says its records show it hadnt sent a phone with an IMEI ending 
082 to a consumer.
I think Assurant fairly and reasonably relied on its system records to say the IMEIs of the 
replacement phone it sent to Mrs S and the phone she returned are different. And as 
Assurant can reasonably understand Mrs S returned a different phone it can fairly say that  
phone isnt covered by the warranty.
I understand Mrs S comments about there being no procedure for her to confirm a 
replacement phones IMEI when she received it so she cant show the replacement phone 
she received and returned are the same. But its not my role to say Assurant must change its 
business procedures and I have to make a decision on the evidence I have.
Mrs S also says the current procedure means Assurant can fraudulently deny that a faulty 
replacement phone is the phone it provided to settle a claim. Assurant responded that as a 
regulated insurance administrator, it would be of no benefit for us to act fraudulently due to 
the risks involved such as actions that the (regulator) may take.  
The repercussions on a business acting fraudulently are severe. I dont think its probable 
that the difference in the IMEI numbers are due to Assurant acting fraudulently.
The warranty doesnt cover damage to a phone. I dont need to make any findings about 
whos responsible for damage to the phone in transit. Even if I thought it was Assurants 
responsibility Im satisfied Assurant fairly declined to repair or replace the phone Mrs S 
returned as it could reasonably believe that wasnt the phone it provided. 
Assurant has told us that Mrs S can make a claim under the insurance policy (which is 
different from the warranty) for her damaged phone which it would assess in line with the 
policy terms. 
Theres no basis for me to say Assurant must refund the £25 excess Mrs S paid for her 
original claim. The policy says an excess is payable for every accepted claim and Assurant 
accepted the original claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman