DRN-3880046
The complaint
Mr S complains about his savings rate with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr S had a Triple Access Issue 13 savings account from Nationwide. The interest rate 
increased from 0.7% to 0.8% and then to 0.85% per annum. 
Mr S complained. He said that Nationwides savings rates should track base rate, but they 
dont. If he wanted to get the best rates from Nationwide, he would have to change to new 
issues every time base rate changes  which was a hassle and time consuming.
Nationwide said the interest rate on Mr S account when he opened in March 2022 was 
0.7%. Since then, it increased twice. When Nationwide wrote to Mr S in July 2022, the rate 
was 0.85%. Nationwide said they dont normally increase rates on existing accounts but they 
made an exception in the case of Triple Access Issue 13. For Mr S account, the higher rate 
would only be applied until the end of its term in April 2023. 
Nationwide said they price their savings products by looking at the interest earned on their 
mortgages. And because of the strong price competition on mortgages, that limited the 
interest they could pay savers. The Triple Access account has a variable rate and it could 
change depending on the number of withdrawals. The headline rate is fixed for one year 
provided three or less withdrawals are made; if four or more withdrawals are made, the rate 
will drop to a variable rate. Nationwide said they would never automatically move customers 
to a new fixed term of one year  as some customers might not want to start a new 12-
month term again.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide acted reasonably and he 
didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He said the variable nature of the interest on the account is 
due to the number of withdrawals made. But he made the point that our service cannot ask a 
firm to change its terms and conditions. And Nationwides accounts arent set up to track 
base rate. 
Mr S disagreed. He made some additional points. He said that Nationwides rates should be 
considered either fixed or variable  but couldnt be both, as he said the Triple Access saver 
was. And he said the service he got on the phone from Nationwides complaint handler was 
poor. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So  it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On looking at Mr S complaint, it seems to me that its evolved over time. There are three 
main parts to Mr S complaint which I will look at:
- That Nationwide savings rates should track base rate, and they dont. This was Mr S 
original complaint.
- That Nationwides Triple Access account cannot be both fixed and variable  it must 
be one or the other.
- He said that the knowledge of Nationwides complaint handler was poor when he 
spoke to her in July 2022.
Nationwides savings rates: Ive considered this aspect of Mr S complaint. And  its for 
Nationwide to set its savings rates as it sees fit. We cant ask Nationwide to change their 
terms and conditions of their accounts  both these aspects of Nationwides business are 
down to their commercial decision making. Its not for us to interfere with that. But  it is our 
role to decide if a customer has been treated reasonably in the circumstances of their 
complaint  for example, we will ensure that Nationwides terms and conditions are 
reasonable and clear.
I looked at the terms and conditions for Nationwides savings accounts. And they say that 
Nationwide can change savings rates if they so wish. That is clear. They say We can make 
different types of changes for different reasons as follows:If we want to: change the 
interest rate we can do so for one of these reasons:
(a) To ensure the rates and/or account fees are consistent with those we offer new 
customers, or to reflect changes that other providers are making to rates or fees on similar 
savings products.
(b) To enable us to manage the overall costs to us of raising the money we lend to our 
customers.We have to balance the interest rates we pay you with both the rates we pay to 
borrow or raise other funds and with the interest rates we charge on our mortgages. This is 
what Nationwide told Mr S in their final response letter. And for me  I think these terms are 
clear.
I also looked at the product terms of the Triple Access Savings account  Mr S wouldve 
received a copy of these at the account opening. These say The interest rate payable on 
the account is variable. The interest rate is also variable based on the number of withdrawals 
you make during the fixed term. If you make three or fewer withdrawals, you will receive the 
higher interest rate for the whole of the fixed term. If you make four or more withdrawals, you 
will receive the lower interest rate for the period from the date of the fourth withdrawal for the 
remainder of the fixed term.  
These terms therefore say that Nationwide can change the interest rate  up or down  
during the term of the Triple Access savings account. And the rate will also vary depending 
on the number of withdrawals made. So here  I differ from our investigator. For me, its 
clear that the rate can change if Nationwide so wish, as well as it changing because of 
withdrawals. Whether Nationwide chose to reduce or increase the rates is up to them  the 
point is that they can - as per the terms and conditions.
But  if the rate was to reduce, Nationwides terms and conditions say they will give at least 
14 days notice: If we reduce the interest rate on your account and you have £100 or more in 
your account, we will send you a personal notification at least 14 days before we make the 
change.  But if theres an increase, it may take place immediately: If we increase the 
interest rate on your account, we may choose not to wait 14 days before passing this benefit 
on to you and may make the change and then tell you about it within 30 days of the change 
taking place.
Nationwides final response said they tended not to change the interest rate on a Triple Access saver during the 12-month period (and indeed they increased it in Mr S case)  but 
the terms say they can change rates if they wish.
So, in summary, Nationwide can change the interest rate on Triple Access Saver if they wish 
 up or down. And the rate will also change depending on the number of withdrawals.  And  
its not for us to interfere with Nationwides commercial decision making on interest rates.
Fixed or variable:  The product information also says: There is a 12 month fixed term for this 
account, beginning on the day you open the account. After the fixed term ends, your money 
will be transferred into an instant access savings account. The terms and conditions and the 
interest rate applicable to that account, at that time, will apply.. Mr S argues that rates 
must be either fixed or variable - but cannot be both. But I think here  the terms of 
Nationwides Triple Access account say that its for a fixed term of one year, but the interest 
rate is still variable for that period. Looking at the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that they 
are clear on that point  the term of the account and the rate of interest are two different 
things.  
Call with Nationwides complaint handler: I listened to the call which took place on 8 July 
2022. I agree it wasnt a very clear call  as Nationwides complaint handler wasnt aware 
that the rate on Triple Access Issue 13 had been increased; and she said she didnt have 
knowledge of the terms and conditions. But equally, to be fair to her, it was an introductory 
call  she had just picked up Mr S complaint and the purpose of the call was to understand 
it, rather than trying to resolve it. She did conclude the call by saying she would go away and 
research his complaint and get back to him: which she later did  by issuing Nationwides 
response. So, while I can appreciate Mr S points here, I dont think it was reasonable to 
expect the call handler to have everything at her fingertips and resolve the matter on the 
initial call.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and has argued passionately in support 
of it. He will be disappointed by my decision. But I hope he can see my reasoning here  and 
understand why Im not upholding his complaint. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman