DRN-3517752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited, referred to as the business or Prudential. 
In short, the CMC says:
There was no justification for advising Mr and Mrs P to invest in a risk-based 
investment. 
They were close to retirement and theres no indication that they understood the risks 
involved. 
What happened
In April 2000, Mr and Mrs P were advised to invest £8,269 in an investment bond. In October 
2000, they invested another £7,350 in the same product. 
At the time it was recorded that:
Mr and Mrs P were in their mid to late 50s, married, and had a dependent child. 
They were self-employed and earning £15,000 each. They had a joint monthly 
outgoings of £900, and a joint net monthly disposable income of £1,100.  
In April 2000, Mr and Mrs P held a £25,000 cash deposit. In July 2000 they held 
£34,000 in cash and around £16,000 in investments. 
They also had an interest only mortgage with £75,000 outstanding. They had no 
other liabilities. 
In April 2005, Mr and Mrs P surrendered the bond and received £18,705.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr and Mrs P had around £34,000 in savings, therefore they had access to cash for 
emergencies/unplanned expenditure. They were also prepared to invest for at least 
10 years. In the circumstances the investment was affordable and didnt interfere with 
any future/planned spending. 
Mr and Mrs P had a small equity based Personal Equity Plan (PEP), but they held 
majority of their money in a savings account with another bank. Its fair to say they 
had limited investment experience. 
Given the passage of time, its not surprising that theres limited information about 
their attitude to risk (ATR)/risk assessment. The 2000 fact find shows that Mr and 
Mrs P had chosen a very cautious level of risk, out of: capital security, very 
cautious, cautious and adventurous.  
A risk assessment isnt available/wasnt completed but based on the above it 
appears that risk level was considered. 
Just because they were inexperienced investors didnt mean that they were 
precluded from investing/taking a risk. 
Mr and Mrs P were advised to invest for a period of 10 years, although there wasnt a 
fixed term. They were advised to leave the investment for at least five years to allow 
it to grow. 
The bond was invested in a With-Profits fund. Prudentials brochure explained the 
following:
owe invest in a wide spread of investments, including shares in well 
established major UK companies like BP, Sainsburys and British Telecom, 
overseas companies, fixed interest securities and property.
Theres nothing to say that this investment  also with a cautious risk rating  wasnt 
in line with Mr and Mrs Ps attitude to risk. 
At the time Mr and Mrs P had up to 11 years before they were due to retire. The fact 
find notes that they wanted to invest in the bond, despite discussing investing in 
pensions.   
Mr and Mrs P encashed the bond in April 2005 and used the funds towards a house 
purchase. Theres no suggestion that any withdrawals were made prior to this.      
Despite there being other products  that in hindsight mightve done better  doesnt 
mean that the recommendation was unsuitable in this instance.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Theres no proper discussion regarding risk, so it cant be certain that Mr and Mrs P 
understood the nature of the recommendation. 
The nature and charges dont seem to have been explained to the them which are 
likely to have had an impact on the returns. 
What does low risk mean?
It hasnt seen that the adviser considered other products and given the advantage 
and disadvantages. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Just because theres no or limited information about an issue doesnt meant that it 
didnt happen or that we should uphold the complaint. It would be for the complainant 
to provide any further evidence they wish us to consider. 
Mr and Mrs P held discussions with the adviser about their personal circumstances 
and objective which led to the recommendation being made. 
In response to the investigators subsequent view, the CMC made the following points:
A firm is required to take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the 
nature (including risk) of any investment. If theres no discussion of what a very 
cautious level of risk is, how can the investigator conclude the recommendation was 
suitable? 
The business has provided point of sale documentation and hasnt said that anything 
is missing. 
The current fund fact sheet shows that the With-Profits fund is invested 60% in 
equities. According to Prudential, it classes the fund as low to medium risk. 
In the circumstances, its not sure how the investigator has concluded that the 
recommendation is suitable for Mr and Mrs P. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P given their 
circumstances. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope that Mr and Mrs P wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC, and Prudential, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I agree with the investigator that given the passage of time its no surprise that the business 
doesnt have more information available such as the actual fund fact sheet. Businesses 
arent required to retain information indefinitely, so I cant blame Prudential for not having 
more information available. Im mindful that this investment was surrendered over 15 years 
ago. Despite what the CMC says, the business hasnt confirmed that it has provided a 
complete set of papers, including all discussions and point of sale documentation, from over 
20 years ago. 
But, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs 
Ps ATR wasnt considered or discussed properly. The 2000 fact find suggests that they 
choose very cautious as their level of risk  which is the equivalent of a two  out of the 
four options available. On balance, I think its more likely than not that this wouldve been 
done after a discussion with the adviser. 
Although its not entirely clear what the business meant by very cautious, it could be argued 
that this was the equivalent of a low-risk in the ordinary sense, and with the first option 
capital security the equivalent of a no-risk, the third option cautious the equivalent of a 
balanced risk, and finally the fourth option adventurous the equivalent of a high risk. 
In the circumstances, I cant say that their ATR was unreasonable, or that it carried more risk 
than they were willing to take. Im satisfied that the recommendation  invested in a With-
Profits fund which also had a very cautious risk rating  met their objective for capital 
growth whilst taking some risk. Despite what the CMC says about the current fund fact 
sheet, its no basis for me to uphold this complaint, in the absence of the actual fund fact 
sheet from 20 years ago. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems that other options  such as an 
investment in pensions  were discussed but Mr and Mrs P wanted to invest in the bond. Despite what the CMC now says, I think its unlikely that they wouldnt have been sent key 
documentation that made clear the charges and nature and operation of the bond. 
Just because Mr and Mrs P were approaching retirement, didnt mean that they had to 
retire and/or couldnt invest in a risk-based investment. I note they were self-employed and 
ran their own business, so couldve worked for longer if they wanted to. I also note they were 
still some years from retirement with Mr P planning to retire at 70 years of age, and Mrs P at 
67 years of age. 
I also note that at the time they had access to a relatively large sum of cash, and a 
reasonable net monthly disposable income, so they were in a good position to invest, and 
continue to grow their savings if they wanted to. In other words, they could afford to invest 
and take some risk, without it materially affecting their lives.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im not persuaded that just because they were 
approaching retirement or because they were inexperienced investors, meant that they 
couldnt invest in a (low) risk-based investment over the medium term. Despite having a 
tendency to hold their money in cash, I note they previously invested in a PEP, so I cant say 
that they were risk averse or that they didnt want to take any risk at all with this portion of 
their money. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that they broadly 
understood the risks involved with the bond.   
I note it was recorded that Mr and Mrs P were:
prepared to accept a small amount of risk for this element of your investment planning in 
order to achieve growth over the medium term. Prudential categorises this as a very 
cautious attitude to risk. Contributions to the Prudential Investment Bond are invested in our 
with-profits fund which has a very cautious risk rating.
I note that having invested a lump sum in April 2000, Mr and Mrs P went on to invest another 
similar amount in the same product just six months later. Their actions dont suggest that 
they were unhappy with the investment or that they had any concerns about investing in a 
risk-based investment.  
Im aware that Mr and Mrs P surrendered their investment early after four-and-a-half/five 
years despite intending to invest for 10 years, for unforeseeable reasons  that neither they 
nor the business probably couldve predicted  and they still made a profit. 
If they had plans in the background to purchase a new property but didnt tell the adviser, its 
not something I can blame the business for. The adviser can only advise on the information 
provided.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs P made an average return of 3% a year. Despite what the 
CMC says, I note they didnt complain about this at the time, which would suggest it wasnt 
something they were unhappy about. 
I note that Mr and Mrs P might now be unhappy with the returns upon surrender, but Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that they were given any guarantees about the level of return. 
Just because they didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask Prudential to do 
anything.On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give Mr and Mrs P what they want. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman