DRN-2418017
The complaint
A a limited company, complains that following a review Revolut Ltd, closed its account 
without giving a reason. A wants to know the reason for the account closure. A is 
represented by its director Mr T.
What happened
A opened a business account with Revolut on 14 September 2018. Following a review 
Revolut decided to close As account with immediate effect on 21 September 2018. A wasnt 
given any reasons why the account was deactivated.
Mr T says A spent the equivalent of £5,000 in labour costs designing and programming the 
interface with Revolut. He wanted to know the reason As account was closed.
So, Mr T complained to Revolut. He said the account had been operational but after the first 
transaction of 10 Euros his account had been suspended.
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were entitled to review the account and 
close it under their terms and conditions.
Mr T was still unhappy as he hadnt been given a reason. So, he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought Revolut was entitled to review As account and close it. He didnt think 
Revolut needed to give a reason for the closure. So, although this was inconvenient to A, 
Revolut did nothing wrong.
Mr T didnt agree. He thought the account had been closed accidentally by Revolut. He said 
he still wanted to know why the account had been closed with immediate effect. And he said 
A hadnt breached the terms and conditions. 
Our investigator said that although Mr T may have thought Revolut acted in error. He had 
reviewed the evidence and the terms of the account and was satisfied Revolut hadnt made 
an error. Revolut had reviewed the account and decided to close the account in accordance 
with the terms. He also said Revolut werent obliged to give him a reason for the closure. 
Mr T was still unhappy and wanted the precise information why his account was closed. As 
there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and I will not be 
upholding the complaint.
Account review and closure 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed As account. 
After the account review Revolut told Mr T it was closing As account with immediate effect. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. A bank is 
entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a 
bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the account and Revolut does have the option 
of closing an account with immediate effect under section 30 of the business terms and 
conditions. Having looked at them and the evidence provided I am satisfied Revolut were 
able to close the account with immediate effect. So, I dont think Revolut did anything wrong 
when they closed the account.
Reasons for closing the account
Mr T has suggested that as he hasnt been given a reason, the closure of As account may 
have been an error on the part of Revolut. I appreciate that Mr T is upset and frustrated by 
the closure of the account and not being given a reason. However, having looked at the 
evidence I am satisfied that Revolut did not make an error when they reviewed and closed 
As account. And whilst Mr T mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, 
Revolut isnt required to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say 
Revolut has done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information  as much as hed like 
to know.
In summary, I realise Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say Revolut has acted unreasonably and treated Mr T unfairly 
when it closed his business account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman