DRN-3149478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, Mr and Mrs S, Mrs S and Mr M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE 
(Great Lakes) declined their travel insurance claim. 
This decision refers to four policyholders above but there are in fact six policyholders and 
includes Mrs S and Mr M also. I confirm all six policyholders are included in this complaint 
and form part of this decision.
Mrs M is the lead complainant on this complaint so, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs M only 
throughout this complaint. 
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy alongside the trip she booked in January 
2020, within the UK. The policy is underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs M booked a cottage for 
six people for a wedding they were due to attend. They were due to attend the wedding in 
April 2020 and their intended dates of the stay were from 4 April 2020 to 8 April 2020. 
In March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) - advice was against all but 
essential travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, on 20 March 2020, Mrs M cancelled the 
trip. She says this was because the wedding was cancelled, and they were being told not to 
travel unless it was essential. Additionally, Mrs Ms husband had pre-existing medical 
conditions and they had an elderly family member who was vulnerable, also with medical 
conditions. Mrs M says her son was a junior doctor at the time and he was redeployed to 
help with the pandemic, so he couldnt travel either. 
Mrs M made a claim for the cost of the accommodation as the provider didnt give a refund. 
Great Lakes assessed the claim but said there was no cover under their policy and declined 
the claim. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said for the situation
Mrs M and the other policyholders have found themselves in, there is no cover under the 
policy. She said Great Lakes hadnt unfairly declined their claim. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
am ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy as this form the basis of 
the travel insurance contract with Great Lakes. 
Page 3, section 1 of the policy document sets out what is covered in the event of a trip being 
cancelled. This says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000 per booking for trips to the United Kingdom, Channel
Islands, Isle of Man and Europe for the unused proportion of any travel and
accommodation costs or prepaid non-refundable expenses which you have paid or
legally have to pay if cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result
of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to
travel with which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to
believe anyone would be made redundant.
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at your home due to serious
damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence,
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Based on the above, cover is provided for the listed events stated above. 
In the same section on page 4, theres a list of events that are not covered under the policy:
What is not covered

g) regulations set by the government of any country.And on page 7, under the the General Exclusions section of the policy, on page 7, it sets out 
that there is no cover for anything caused directly or indirectly by:

15. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the travel advice unit
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against all but essential
travel.

Has the claim been declined fairly?
Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think Great Lakes treated Mrs M unfairly. I say this 
because:
Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the cancellation section 
of the policy. So, what happened here isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Ive also looked at the remaining section of Mrs Ms policy, but I dont 
think she held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found 
themselves in. 
Ive considered whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the case, 
taking into account industry rules, guidance and the relevant law. 
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policy holder to certain exclusions, such as an exclusion 
for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, in 
this case, I think there are other reasons why Great Lakes could have fairly declined 
the claim.
The cancellation section of Mrs Ms policy also excludes claims for cancelling arising 
from regulations set by the government of any country.
Its hard to say with certainty that there was one specific reason for Mrs Ms claim. I 
think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice, and 
government restriction in the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on 
the cancellation of the trip.
Mrs M cancelled the trip on 20 March 2020 and at the time the UK government 
advised against all but essential travel. So, not only are the reasons for the 
cancellation of Mrs Ms trip not covered as listed insured events under the policy, I 
think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above about regulations set by the 
government of any country would apply to the circumstances of her claim in any 
event. 
I understand Mrs M feels strongly about the circumstances and the health of the 
various members of the party. I also appreciate this must have been a challenging 
period for Mrs M and the policyholders. However, Ive considered these carefully and 
while I have every empathy for their circumstances, these arent listed an insured 
event under their policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
In all the circumstances of this complaint and having looked at everything, Im not
persuaded Great Lakes has treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont 
think Great Lakes needs to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Mrs M, Ms S 
and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman