DRN-2743087
Complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs B bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2001. The loan which was taken out in a 
meeting, included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover in the event 
she was unable to work due to accident, sickness, unemployment and critical illness. The 
policy also would have paid a benefit in the unfortunate event of death.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
In order to apply the PPI to Mrs Bs account, Barclays would have needed to give Mrs B a 
choice about the PPI and gained her consent before adding it to her loan. Mrs B has said 
PPI was not mentioned  she signed the forms where indicated to do so. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs B, which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place close to 20 years ago. As a result, Barclays hasnt been 
able to provide copies of Mrs Bs actual paperwork from the time of the sale. But, it has sent 
us a sample copy of both the loan application form and loan agreement it says were in use 
and would have needed to have been completed at the time Mrs B took out the loan and the 
PPI. In the absence of anything persuasive to suggest this application differed from the one 
Mrs B completed and signed, I think its more likely than not that the form represented what 
Mrs B would have seen at the time of the sale. 
Looking at the sample application form, there is a separate section relating to Barclayloan 
Protection. I can see that Mrs B would have been given the option to tick to apply for it or 
tick to say that she didnt require it. 
I have thought carefully about what Mrs B has said, the limited information available and 
what I know about Barclays sales practices at the time. Having done so, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not the PPI would have been presented as an optional product and that 
Mrs B would have agreed to take it out. Im also satisfied that it is more likely than not the 
cost of the policy would have been set out on the loan agreement Mrs B signed. So I think if 
this was not what Mrs B agreed to, this section of the loan agreement is likely to have 
prompted her to question the cover and additional cost before signing it. 
Taking all of this into account, I think its more likely than not that the PPI was presented as 
optional and Mrs B chose to take it.
Barclays has said it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs B. This means it had to check 
the policy was right for Mrs B and based on what I have seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time, I think that it was right for her. Mrs B was eligible for the cover and I cant see that 
she would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-
existing medical conditions. 
Mrs B says she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay if she was too unwell to work. Her job also came with a redundancy package, pension 
and death in service benefit. In addition, she says she could have relied on her husband and 
family to help with the loan repayments if she ever fell on hard times. And she has said she 
had separate life insurance.
Having thought about what Mrs B has told us about her sick pay and the redundancy 
package she says she would have received, I dont think this means Barclays was wrong to 
recommend the PPI to her. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to the 
sick pay she would have received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for 
a lot longer than she would have received full pay  until Mrs B returned to work. The PPI 
also would have paid a benefit if she became unemployed for up to twelve months, in 
addition to any redundancy payment she may have received from her employer. And it 
would have paid a benefit in the unfortunate event of a critical illness or death. So I think the 
PPI could have been useful to Mrs B if she ever became too unwell to work or lost her job. It 
also looks like it was affordable. It follows that I dont think Barclays was wrong to 
recommend the PPI to her.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about being able to rely on family members to help her 
with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt useful for her. While 
Mrs Bs family members may have wanted to help, their financial situation could change, so 
this help couldnt always be relied on.
Finally, I have thought about the death in service, separate life insurance cover and pension 
Mrs B said she had. Im not persuaded this shows she didnt need PPI. The death in service 
and life assurance offers a different type of cover than PPI and generally would only pay out 
in the event of death. As the PPI would have paid out if Mrs B lost her job or was unable to 
work due to any illness, I think this shows she could have found the cover useful if she ever 
fell on hard times. Having considered the pension, this would only usually become available 
at the employees normal retirement date. Because this was not available until a significant 
time after Mrs B took the policy, it would be unlikely to assist her at a time when Mrs B was 
unable to work or lost her job. 
Looking at the sample document Barclays has provided, the cost of the policy was shown in 
the loan agreement  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the 
premium and the total cost. So I think its more likely than not Mrs B would have understood 
how much the PPI would cost if she kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs B made a successful claim she 
could have got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs B would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early. I dont know if Barclays thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if 
it explained the situation clearly to Mrs B. But I havent seen anything to suggest she thought 
shed repay the loan early when she applied for it. So I dont think this meant the policy 
wasnt right for her  or that better information about this would have stopped her buying it.Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive explained above, Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy could have been useful to her. So I dont think better 
information would have stopped her buying it. 
So considering everything, I dont think Mrs Bs PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman