DRN-1591097
 
The complaint
 AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
just refer to AXA in my decision.
Miss R says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss R took out with a store card in April 2000. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss R mainly said that she took the insurance out when she was at the till and she wasnt 
given any advice about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA has given us a copy of Miss Rs completed store card application. Miss R has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Miss R wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Miss R to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Miss R signed the completed application so it seems to me that she must have agreed with 
the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find that Miss R was aware the policy was optional and she chose to take it 
out.
Even though no PPI recommendation was made by AXA it still needed to make sure it gave 
Miss R enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information AXA gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I need to consider if Miss R wouldve acted differently, and not bought 
the policy, if clearer information had been provided. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Miss R was off work sick or if Miss R lost 
her job and became unexpectedly unemployed. Miss R wasnt able to remember if she had any sick pay and she told us she didnt have any 
other way of making the monthly repayments if she wasnt working. So I think Miss R 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.
It doesnt look as if Miss R was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, 
I dont think more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Miss Rs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss R clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Miss R chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems 
to have wanted it at the time, and been happy to pay to have it, even if shes forgotten this 
now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss R, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman