DRN-4321265
The complaint
The estate of Mr J (the estate) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC released money from 
Mr Js account that they shouldnt have done.
What happened
When the estate informed Barclays of Mr Js passing, they say Barclays informed the estate 
that Mr Js sister had also made a claim and she had submitted a funeral bill to be paid out 
of Mr Js account. As Mr J did not leave a will, the estate submitted documents to prove that 
his daughter was his next of kin, however, Barclays claimed this was insufficient and 
declared a dispute. They advised the estate to obtain letters of administration. The estate 
say they gave Barclays strict instructions for them not to pay the funeral bill from the account 
as there were other funds to pay for this bill, but Barclays paid the funeral bill from Mr Js 
account without informing the estate. 
The estate say that Barclays continued to pay a £20 a month standing order to a third party 
bank, despite Mr Js passing and they paid out a further two payments from the account. The 
estate say they have tried to speak to Barclays but often face long holding times, a lack of 
call backs, and call handlers who werent aware of what previous call handlers had said. The 
estate made a complaint to Barclays. But they did not uphold the complaint. The estate 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Barclays made the payments from the 
estate in line with their process for paying priority bills. He said this is something that 
Barclays are within their powers to authorise, and he believed the payments made for the 
funeral bill and care costs do fall within the category of being a priority bill. He said Barclays 
did try and contact the estate, but these calls were ended prematurely. The estate asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to pass my condolences on to the estate. Im aware that Ive only summarised 
the estates complaint points. And Im not going to respond to every single point made by 
them. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to the estate that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their processes or procedures such as their bereavement processes and what they 
should class as a priority bill. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Barclays have provided me with their internal procedures for their bereavement process. The 
procedures show that the funeral bill can be paid from the deceaseds funds if certain criteria 
is met. While the estate says there were other funds to pay for the funeral bill, the letters of 
administration confirms that Mr Js estate was £5,000. Given his balance in his Barclays 
account when he passed away, then it doesnt appear that he had the cash or an account 
elsewhere which would contain these funds (as otherwise the information on the letters of 
administration would appear to be incorrect). 
But regardless of if there was other money to pay for the funeral, Im satisfied that Barclays 
followed their procedures once the criteria had been met to pay for the funeral bill. Its 
important to note here that the funds did not go to a singular person who was then expected 
to pay for the funeral bill, the payment went direct to the funeral director. While the estate 
may feel this point is irrelevant, it shows that Barclays did not pay the individual they were in 
dispute with any money directly. They also paid £361.82 and £54.96 for care costs as these 
invoices were provided to them from the council. And although Mr J had passed away, it 
doesnt mean this money wouldnt be owed. Im satisfied that this would need to be paid 
from his estate. The care costs show that this was for the period relating to 17 January-27 
February 2022 for the £361.82 invoice. The invoice states the payment was due on 31 
March 2022. The other invoice for £54.96 states the period covered was from 28 February-6 
March 2022 and was payable by 28 April 2022.
So the timeframes mentioned on the council invoices are covering care costs while Mr J was 
alive. The payment due date had already passed when Barclays released the funds. Based 
on the nature of the invoice, who they were from and considering the due dates had already 
passed, then Im satisfied that Barclays considered these to be priority bills. And as their 
internal procedures show, they could release funds for priority bills. Again, they did not pay 
this money to the individual that the estate was in dispute with, these two payments were 
made to the council directly.
But Barclays did not follow all of their procedures in terms of money being released from the 
account. Their procedures show that all direct debits and standing orders should have been 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. There was a £20 a month standing order which went to a 
third party bank. Its not clear if this went to Mr Js account with the third party bank or 
whether this went to someone elses account. 
But regardless, the standing order should have been cancelled when Barclays were 
informed of Mr Js passing, and it didnt happen. I asked Barclays about this. They confirmed 
that this wouldnt be classed as a priority bill, and it should have been stopped. So while this 
money may have been retained in the estate by going to an account which was in Mr Js 
name, Barclays have said that as a gesture of goodwill, they would refund £180 to the estate 
(9 x £20 a month). As Barclays have said they would repay this, I have not investigated who 
the account holder was with the third party.
Ive considered what the estate said about the service they received from Barclays and what 
they were told about call backs. I can see a system note that Barclays did try and call the 
estate on two occasions. But the system note shows the call was disconnected before it was 
answered. So it may just be the estate didnt recognise the telephone number and therefore 
cut the call off rather than answer the call. But Id be unable to say one way or another what 
happened here. 
Im satisfied the letters of administration was needed. It was this which proved who was 
entitled to the remaining funds after the priority bills had been paid. Without this, the account 
would still likely be in dispute, so Barclays followed their disputes procedure here. In considering what would be a fair outcome for this complaint, Ive considered that Barclays 
didnt follow their procedure for stopping standing orders. This was Mr Js money which left 
his account when it shouldnt have. And its probable that the estate was told incorrect 
information by call handlers, had long hold times and had to reiterate their points to Barclays 
each time they spoke to a new call handler. 
But in terms of our powers at this service, Mr J would have been the eligible complainant, 
who had the required relationship with Barclays under this complaint  and we can only 
make awards to eligible complainants. The estate representative brings the matter on Mr Js 
behalf (as the person authorised in law to do so). So it follows that I cant compensate an 
estate representative for any impact incurred by them personally when representing Mr J or 
his estate. So with this in mind, I intend to ask Barclays to pay the estate of Mr J £180, which 
is their goodwill gesture for not stopping the standing order when they should have done, but 
I dont intend to require them to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the estate of Mr J £180. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome 
for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the estate of Mr J £180.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman