DRN-4048871
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt allow them to take a new 
interest rate on their mortgage online. And they complain that delays in making an 
appointment to speak to a mortgage adviser led them to miss out on taking a more 
favourable interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Nationwide. Their mortgage was in two parts. The 
interest rate on part one ended in November 2022, and the interest rate on part two ended in 
July 2023. In September 2022, Mr and Mrs M decided that, as they were concerned about 
the possibility of rising interest rates, they would take a new rate straightaway on both parts 
of the mortgage  knowing that would involve paying an early repayment charge (ERC) on 
part two. The ERC would be around £1,000.
Mr and Mrs M logged on to Nationwides website to make the change  but it wouldnt let 
them. Nationwide says that its only possible to book a rate online where a customer is not 
already tied into an existing rate, or where they are coming to the end of a rate and are 
looking for a new one to follow on. It doesnt allow customers to break an existing rate and 
incur an ERC online. Instead, customers like Mr and Mrs M need to speak to a mortgage 
adviser, so that Nationwide can be sure they understand the implications of what theyre 
doing and that its appropriate for them.
Mr and Mrs M therefore called Nationwide to make the change. But they say they had 
problems getting through. After trying for around ten days, and spending long periods on 
hold, they finally managed to speak to someone. But the person they spoke to couldnt 
process their application  they could only make an appointment for Mr and Mrs M to speak 
to an adviser at a later date. On 28 September, Mr and Mrs M made an appointment for 
10 October. 
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said they knew what they wanted to do and didnt see why 
they needed to speak to an adviser. They said that it was very difficult to get through, and 
even when they did manage to speak to someone they had to make an appointment rather 
than have their rate switch dealt with there and then. They said that this had caused them 
financial loss  interest rates were below 3% when they started trying to switch but over 5% 
by the time of the appointment. 
Mr and Mrs M decided not to stay with Nationwide and paid off their mortgage at the end of 
November. They said theyd missed out on moving to another lender sooner because they 
didnt know it would take so long to get things processed with Nationwide, so Nationwide had 
caused them to pay more than they needed to. If it didnt have enough advisers available to 
deal with customers, it shouldnt penalise customers by making them wait and pay more  it 
should have offered Mr and Mrs M a rate from those available when they started the 
process, rather than one of the rates available at the time of the appointment. It had applied 
its policy rigidly without thinking of the impact on customers like Mr and Mrs M. They said 
Nationwide hadnt made clear when they booked the appointment that it would only make 
available rates on the day of the appointment  theyd assumed it would be more flexible. 
Nationwide said it was its policy to require customers to speak to a mortgage adviser before 
taking a rate switch that involved an ERC. It said it was unfortunate that this meant rates 
rose before Mr and Mrs M could switch, but its policy was in place for good reasons, and it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel 
strongly that Nationwide put them in a position which caused them financial loss  but Im 
not persuaded that it did anything wrong. I think it was simply unfortunate timing and 
Mr and Mrs M were unlucky, but Nationwide has acted fairly in all the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M had two parts to their mortgage, with fixed rates ending at different times. 
Concerned about rising interest rates, they decided to take a new rate on both parts of their 
mortgage  aware that in doing so they would have to break one of their fixed rates early 
and pay an ERC.
Nationwide doesnt allow customers to do this online. It requires them to speak to a 
mortgage adviser and take advice. Thats because it wants to make sure that, before they 
commit to paying what can be a substantial ERC, customers understand what they are 
deciding to do and that its really the right thing for them to do. 
I dont think this is an unreasonable position to take. It protects customers by making sure 
they can make a properly informed choice with full understanding of their options and the 
consequences.
I understand Mr and Mrs M didnt feel this was necessary for them. They had already 
weighed up the options and made a decision, and didnt feel that they needed advice from 
Nationwide; they just wanted to go ahead. But the difficulty is that not all customers would 
have done the same, and Nationwide couldnt have known  without them speaking to a 
mortgage adviser  that Mr and Mrs M had done so. 
Sometimes a process that is designed to protect the interests of customers generally can 
work well overall but still cause problems for an individual customer; I think that was the case 
here. But Mr and Mrs M were in the same position as all other Nationwide customers  any 
customer who wanted to switch interest rate during a fixed rate term, incurring an ERC, 
would be required to speak to an adviser first. 
Ultimately I dont think it was unfair that Nationwide wouldnt let Mr and Mrs M switch their 
rate online and required them to speak to a mortgage adviser first. Even if that wasnt 
something that was necessary for them as individuals, there were good reasons why 
Nationwide required it generally.  
Mr and Mrs M also complain that it took them some time to get through  and even when 
they did they couldnt speak to an adviser there and then, but had to make an appointment 
for two weeks later.
Again, I understand this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs M. Just as they had decided to take a 
new fixed rate because of concerns about rising interest rates, many other people had 
decided the same thing. Many lenders, including Nationwide, found that they were faced with 
much higher than expected call volumes, and demand for appointments, in late September 
and early October 2022. This was at a time when interest rates suddenly increased by more than expected and the resulting unpredicted demand led to long waits. It was very 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs M were caught up in this, but I dont think Nationwide acted 
unfairly.
Finally, Mr and Mrs M say that Nationwide ought to have shown some flexibility  as they 
understand other lenders do  and allowed them to take one of the rates available on the 
day they booked the appointment, rather than the higher rates available on the day of the 
appointment itself. In my experience, though, this isnt something any lender does. It wasnt 
until they had spoken to an adviser and confirmed that they wanted to go ahead that they 
would be able to select a rate. And that selection would be from the rates available on that 
day.
Ive listened to the call Mrs M had with Nationwide on 28 September. She didnt say that 
there was any urgency in making an appointment. And Nationwide didnt lead her to believe 
that it would make rates available other than on the day of the appointment. It didnt mislead 
Mr and Mrs M about its position.
Overall, as I say, its clear to me that Mr and Mrs M were unfortunate. They could see that 
rates were rising and decided to take a new rate sooner rather than later to protect 
themselves against that. For reasons outside their control, it took a couple of weeks before 
they could do that with Nationwide, and rates had risen further in the meantime. But 
Nationwide didnt do anything wrong, and acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. Ultimately it was the wider economic situation which led to rates rising so 
fast. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Nationwide to set aside its usual 
procedures, including those designed to protect customers interests, because of that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman