DRN-3499143
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank Plc didnt allocate a dividend payment to his account 
promptly. He says hes lost out on investment growth because he couldnt reinvest the 
money earlier.
What happened
Mr P held shares in a company Ill call A. The shares were held in his Barclays investment 
account. A paid a dividend on 21 September 2021. Mr P contacted Barclays on 4 October 
2021 to complain hed not yet received it. Barclays paid the dividend the following day, and 
responded to Mr Ps complaint a few days later. Barclays said theyd had to query and verify 
the amount they received from A before they could pass the dividend on to investors. They 
said theyd still made the payment within the regulated timescales. They apologised for not 
proactively letting Mr P know what was happening, and paid him £50 to say sorry.
Mr P didnt accept Barclays answer and brought his complaint to our service. He wanted to 
know exactly what had caused the delay, and thought Barclays should compensate him for 
the investment loss if it was their fault he hadnt got the dividend on the day A sent it to them.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do any more. He was satisfied the relevant 
rules gave Barclays 10 working days to credit payments like this, which they had kept to. He 
didnt think Mr P was entitled to the additional detail he was asking for. Mr P didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P isnt happy with how long Barclays took to credit the dividend payment he was due. 
The terms of his agreement with Barclays say that:
Dividend payments and interest will be paid in cash, following deduction of any applicable 
tax and will only be available to you following market settlement of such payment.
Barclays are the nominees for Mr P and other investors in A. So Barclays are the legal 
shareholders, on behalf of Mr P and the other beneficial owners of the shares. This means 
when a dividend is paid, Barclays receives one large payment which they have to reconcile 
with the holdings of individual shareholders. Here, Barclays have explained the amount they 
received for this dividend didnt match their expectation. This took a few days to sort out and 
then the dividends were allocated to individual investors accounts  following the market 
settlement of the payment, in line with their terms.
This dividend payment is ultimately money due to Barclays clients. Its client money. 
Barclays have to comply with the regulators rules on handling client money, found in the 
CASS rules in the FCAs handbook. 
CASS 7.13.36 says a firm must allocate client money promptly, and in any case no later than 
ten business days after its received. Barclays paid Mr Ps A dividend nine business days 
after it was received from A.
Taking all this into account Im not persuaded Barclays treated Mr P unfairly. While its 
unfortunate the dividend wasnt paid sooner, Im satisfied there was a discrepancy Barclays 
needed to resolve with As registrars, and that the dividend was paid once it was settled, and 
within the timescales stipulated in the rules.
From time to time this sort of discrepancy can arise, or errors made which mean a slight 
delay in making a payment. This is provided for in both Barclays terms and in the regulatory 
rules. I dont think Mr P was misled that this sort of payment would always be paid 
immediately (even if it often was). 
Mr P has said he wants to know exactly what happened during this period, and whose fault 
the discrepancy was. I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays havent shared that 
information, and I dont think it matters in this case. 
Whether it was Barclays or A which got the initial payment amount wrong, in my view the 
rules provide for this kind of situation, and it doesnt automatically follow that the delay in the 
payment arriving in Mr Ps individual account is unreasonable. Id just expect Barclays to 
have dealt with matters promptly as the rules require. Here, things took less than two 
weeks from start to finish and I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman