DRN-2830033
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has decided her pets middle ear infection 
is related to a recurring skin condition and therefore, subject to one policy limit.
What happened
In June 2014, Mrs S dog  which Ill refer to as Z  was treated for atopic skin disease 
and otitis externa (inflammation of the external ear).
In August 2020, Mrs S took her dog to the vets. Clinical notes say Z was shaking and 
scratching her right ear. On examination, the right ear appeared inflamed and dirty and 
ear drops were prescribed.
A week later, Mrs S took Z to the vets because she had started falling over. Clinical 
notes state the right ear had improved but as Z had a head tilt and nystagmus (where 
the eyes make repetitive, uncontrolled movements) she was referred to a vetinary 
neurologist for further investigation. She was subsequently diagnosed with having 
severe otitis media (inflammation of the middle ear).
Mrs S made two payments to the neurologist vetinary clinic:
£3,110.85 on 24 August 2020
£1,071.15 on 2 September 2020
UKI reimbursed Mrs S for the August payment, but said it could only pay £209.90 
towards Septembers payment as the policy limit of £6,000 per condition had been 
reached. It said Zs middle ear infection was a continuation of her skin allergy condition 
which was first diagnosed in June 2014  and so, was subject to one limit.
Mrs S disputes the conditions are linked and has said the limit per condition is £8,000 not
£6,000.
Mrs S provided evidence from Zs vet and the vetinary neurologist to support her 
position that the conditions are not linked. An email from Zs primary vet says:
As Z only ever suffered with mild, unilateral otitis externa it is highly unlikely to 
have resulted in severe bilateral otitis media. It is my opinion that this must be a 
separate conditionbilateral otitis media is unrelated to atopic skin disease.
Zs neurologist said:
The development of the deep ear infection is a multifactual problem and her 
(Zs) previous skin allergies might be predisposing her to other skin conditions, 
but it is not clear that the two conditions are obviously related. Anatomical 
variations can contribute to the development of otitis and I feel the right ear 
infection should be considered as a separate problem to her ongoing skin 
allergies.
In its final response UKI said atopic dermatitis is the most common cause of otitis 
externa and that this is responsible for the initiation of an inflammatory process within 
the ear. It added that without evidence of a different underlying cause, atopic dermatitis 
was the most likely cause of the otitis media.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said she was persuaded by Zs primary vet 
and the neurologists testimony that the middle ear infection was unlikely to be caused by 
Zs skin condition. She said UKI needed to treat the conditions separately  meaning each 
was subject to its own limit. So, she asked UKI to reimburse Mrs S the full treatment fees 
paid in September 2020 in respect of the middle ear infection.
UKI disagreed, it said:
Zs primary vet didnt examine Z on 15 August 2020 and so couldnt be sure the 
otitis externa was mild.
A different underlying cause for the middle ear infection hasnt been found.
Evidence shows dogs with longstanding skin conditions and recurrent otitis 
externa are predisposed to developing otitis media.
When Mrs S took out the policy, the limit for each condition was £6,000. 
This increased to £8,000 when the policy renewed. But as Zs skin 
condition was first diagnosed in the first year of cover, it was subject to the 
£6,000 limit.
Our investigator considered UKIs comments, but her opinion remained the same. She 
said Zs primary vet had consulted a dermatologist who agreed the conditions were not 
related, and so she was more persuaded the middle infection did not result from Zs skin 
condition.
UKI disagreed and so the complaint was been passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision on 13 May 2021 and gave the parties until 27 May 2021 to reply to it. 
My provisional decision said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy a condition is defined as:
any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs of injury or illness, including 
related conditions of problems, no matter where these are noticed or happen 
in or on your pet.
UKIs position is that the middle ear infection is related to the skin condition which has 
repeatedly affected Z since it first appeared in June 2014. Under the policy, UKI is entitled 
to treat related conditions as one condition and therefore, subject to one policy limit. So, I 
need to decide whether the conditions are separate or related.
Our investigator was more persuaded by Zs vets testimony that the conditions were 
unrelated  she placed weight on the vets extensive career history and experience. 
She also found the vets admission that shed spoken to a dermatologist for a second 
opinion - which concurred with her own - to be persuasive.While I dont doubt Zs vets credibility, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to 
support the position that the two conditions are unrelated. I say this for a few reasons. I 
dont doubt the vet sought the opinion of a dermatologist  but without evidence of the 
dermatologists opinion, it is only anecdotal, and therefore, not something I can place 
weight on.
While Zs vet feels strongly the conditions are unrelated, she does recognise that as a 
general practitioner she is not a skin specialist and so, couldnt rule out the possibility of 
the conditions being linked. The neurologist who treated Z, explained that while a deep 
ear infection is a multifactorial problem, Zs skin allergy might be predisposing her to 
other skin conditions. These comments suggest its not implausible for the skin condition 
to have caused both the otitis externa and otitis media.
While I accept the neurologist doesnt agree the conditions are obviously related, he 
acknowledges that as a neurology specialist, skin conditions are outside his area of 
expertise. So, while he is a highly qualified and experienced vet, determining whether 
Zs skin condition did or didnt cause the otitis media is not within his remit  and I 
must keep this in mind when considering how persuasive his testimony is.
Zs vet didnt examine Z on 15 August 2020 and so didnt see first-hand the extent of the 
otitis externa. The vets comments about the extent of it appear to be based on what shed 
seen previously when treating Z for the same condition  and that as previous episodes 
had been mild, it is unlikely that it caused the severe middle ear infection. But whats key 
here is the extent of the otitis externa on 15 August. Im not persuaded its fair to use how 
previous flare ups of otitis externa presented themselves as being indicative of how likely 
or not it was the cause of the otitis media this time.
Conversely, UKIs technical vetinary nurse has said evidence shows dogs with 
longstanding skin conditions and recurrent otitis externa are predisposed to developing 
otitis media and are much more likely for this to occur. UKI has directed me to a leading 
practice which specialises in dermatology and has extensive experience managing 
complex cases of otitis. Its website says:
In more long standing, recurrent or difficult cases that are not responding to 
treatments, the risk of otitis media becomes much higher and further 
investigators are usually needed
It goes on to say:
Contrary to popular belief, ear infections caused by bacteria and fungi very 
rarely initiate the problem. The most common initiating causes of otitis 
include parasites, foreign bodies and allergic skin disease.
This contrasts with Zs vet who suggested the middle ear infection could have been 
caused by something else  such as an infection circulating in the blood stream. But 
from what Ive seen another cause wasnt identified. And given the short timeframe 
between Z presenting with otitis externa and being diagnosed with severe otitis media - I 
dont think its unreasonable for UKI to consider it as being related to Zs skin condition, 
and therefore subject to one policy limit.
I appreciate it isnt always possible to provide a conclusive cause, but based on what Ive 
seen so far, I think its more likely than not the otitis media is linked to Zs skin condition, 
and its therefore subject to one policy limit.Policy limit
The policy states UKI wont pay more than the maximum limit or limits that applied to the 
period of insurance in which the event [] first started. Zs skin condition first started in 
June 2014 and at the time, the policy limit per condition was £6,000. So, UKI has acted 
fairly by capping the amount it has paid in respect of the skin condition at £6,000.
I know my findings are going to disappoint Mrs S, but I hope she understands why 
Im currently minded to not uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that based on what Ive seen so far in this case, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Mrs S expressed her disappointment at my 
findings but didnt provide any further evidence or comment. UKI said it had no further 
comment. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly by 
treating the otitis media as being linked to Zs atopic skin condition, and therefore, subject to 
one policy limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman