DRN-1740735
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him an insurance policy that wasnt 
suitable.
What happened
In 2019 Mr O visited a bank branch in order to amend the address on his account as he was 
living overseas. During this visit Mr O was sold a Tech Pack, which is an insurance policy 
designed to cover electronic items such as mobile phones and laptops. Several months later 
Mr O contacted Barclays to say he shouldnt have been sold the policy as he wasnt living in 
the UK. Barclays agreed Mr O shouldnt have been sold the policy and it cancelled the cover 
and refunded the premiums he paid, with interest.
Mr O complained again to Barclays as he said it hadnt paid a claim for a stolen laptop he 
needed to make. Barclays said that there was no record of a claim being made prior to the 
cancellation of the policy and the refund. 
The complaint was brought to this service and our investigator looked into the matter. She 
said that Barclays had accepted it had made a mistake in selling the policy to him and that 
by refunding the premiums he had paid, it had put him back in the same position he was in 
prior to the policy being taken out  which is what this service would have expected it to do.
 
And in relation to the claim for the laptop, she found that no claim had been recorded for the 
item. In order for that to be considered she said she would need to see evidence a claim had 
been made prior to it becoming clear the policy was unsuitable for him. She also discovered 
that the sale of the policy had been opportunistic, rather than Mr O going into the branch to 
obtain this cover. She found it was unlikely that Mr O would have actively sought out a policy 
had he not been offered this one in branch. Overall, as there was no evidence of a claim 
being made prior to the complaint, or anything to show that Mr O would have bought this 
type of cover elsewhere, our investigator didnt think that Barclays had to do anything more.
Mr O disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that the policy shouldnt have been sold to Mr O, as he was living 
overseas. However, Mr O says Barclays resolution for his complaint doesnt go far enough. 
He thinks it should be paying for his stolen laptop. What I need to consider is whether 
Barclays offer is fair or if it needs to do anything more.
If an insurance policy has been mis-sold, we would expect the insurer to put the consumer 
back into the position they were in immediately prior to the sale. In most cases that would be 
cancelling the policy and refunding the premiums paid, along with any interest owed. And I 
can see that Barclays has done this in Mr Os case  so Im satisfied that it has provided him 
with a fair settlement in terms of refunding the policy. 
However, Mr O wants to be paid for a laptop that he says has been stolen. He says he told 
Barclays about this  it has checked the claims records but says there is no note of a claim 
being made by Mr O. Mr O told us he was calling Barclays to make the claim for the laptop 
when he found out he wasnt eligible for the cover, so that is why there isnt a claim showing.
Ive thought about this point carefully. Barclays hasnt been able to provide a call recording 
of the conversation it had with him in 2019 but it has provided notes which were entered at 
the time of the initial contact and there isnt any mention of a claim. These notes also refer to 
the outcome Mr O wants as being to cancel the Tech Pack and receive a refund of 
premiums. If Mr O had told Barclays about the laptop at this point, I think its more likely than 
not that this would have been included in this initial record.
But in addition to this, I also need to consider what would have happened had Mr O not been 
sold the Tech Pack in 2019. From the records provided by the bank, Mr O did previously 
have this type of cover, but this was cancelled in 2017. Ive asked Mr O if he held any other 
insurance for these goods between 2017 and 2019 but he hasnt been able to provide any 
details. And Ive noted he told our investigator that he hasnt taken out insurance for these 
goods elsewhere following the cancellation of the policy. 
 
Having considered this point, I think it is unlikely Mr O had existing cover in place for these 
items before the sale of this policy in 2019  otherwise I think he would have been able to 
demonstrate this. So, I agree with our investigator that this appears to have been 
opportunistic, as opposed to Mr O actively seeking out this type of cover. If Barclays hadnt 
sold him this Tech Pack in 2019, Im not persuaded Mr O would have purchased cover for 
his laptop elsewhere, as he hasnt done so since finding out he isnt insured. So, I dont think 
he has been disadvantaged as it is unlikely he would have had insurance even if this sale 
hadnt happened. Im therefore satisfied that, by cancelling the policy and refunding the 
premiums, Barclays has put Mr O back into the same position as he was prior to the loss 
and it doesnt have to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman