DRN-2486512
The complaint
  The complaint is about an application for a right-to-buy mortgage Ms L made to Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. Ms L is unhappy with the service and treatment she received from Barclays.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the following 
reasons.
Theres no dispute Barclays made mistakes, and that these had to be put right at short 
notice in order for Ms Ls mortgage to complete on time. Barclays has apologised, refunded 
a £150 product switch fee, and paid £50 compensation. Ms L has said thats not enough to 
put right the sense of bullying and threat that she felt in her dealings with the bank.
I understand how strongly Ms L feels about this. That said, this is very much a subjective 
area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment, when 
subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving house. Thats not in any way to cast doubt 
on Ms Ls testimony, or her sense of injury to her feelings. But I have to take a step back and 
assess things objectively. When I do that, Im not persuaded of any intent on Barclays part 
to bully or threaten her. 
Refunding the product switch free was the right thing to do; so was compensating Ms L for 
her time, trouble and upset, but £50 wasnt enough. I get why Ms L considers a higher award 
that our investigator has recommended is warranted; shes concerned this could happen to 
someone else. However, its not my role to punish Barclays or future-proof against 
something happening again; its to remedy the dispute in front of me now. In my view, the 
investigators assessment was right; a further £200, making £250 in all, is fair compensation 
in all the circumstances.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Ms L £200, making total compensation of £250 for Ms Ls time, 
trouble and upset.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman