DRN-3919489
The complaint
N, a community interest company, complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt open an 
account and explain the reasons for this and that it generally provided poor service.
What happened
N says its representatives contacted Santander about opening an account. And were initially 
told theyd have to wait for a branch appointment. It was agreed that this be done by remote 
means instead. But the representatives are unhappy at the requirements and how a call was 
handled. And after that to be told that N wasnt eligible for an account. They say that the 
member of staff that dealt with them was rude and dismissive and are unhappy that she then 
dealt with their complaint. N says other financial businesses couldnt assist at the time and 
as the representatives had an existing relationship with Santander expected this would be 
helpful.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that there was a mandatory pre-introduction 
discussion for such an application. And this was so it could understand the business and 
determine if itd be able to assist. There was no promise that the account would be opened. 
And the process for opening what would need to be a Treasurers  current account for a 
community interest company is in general more complex than account opening for other 
entities. It said it would always want sight of a constitution for the business. It didnt make 
any comment on why N wasnt eligible but was clear that it wasnt. Santander said it didnt 
have a recording of the call N had with its member of staff.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Santander had 
made a commercial decision. He saw from Santanders website that it wasnt currently 
opening accounts for new customers. Santander had offered a remote meeting. There was 
no call recording, but he noted that N was a separate legal entity that couldnt suffer distress. 
Although some parts of the eligibility requirements were published on its website Santander 
wouldnt share those that were commercially sensitive.
N didnt agree. Its representatives said that there had been a relationship with Santander. 
And asked how a newly formed organisation could ever get an account if it hadnt one 
already. Santander was discriminating between business and personal customers and so 
could treat business customers any way that it liked. N wanted an apology for the way its 
representatives were spoken to and didnt think things were resolved at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want first to say that it is a matter for Santanders legitimate discretion as to whether it 
offers an account to a potential customer. Thats not something Id generally interfere in and 
nor would I expect Santander to disclose all the criteria it would apply. But I will look at 
whether N was treated fairly and there were process failings.
I consider that the public statement that it wasnt opening accounts for new customers here 
had no relevance. And thats because it did set up a discussion with N. And it also seemed 
to accelerate normal timescales for this following feedback from N. I have looked at the 
emails between N and the member of staff at Santander that N has provided. I dont have a 
recording of the conversation it had. I do sense though that Santander was indicating that 
this request may not be successful and can see that the member of staff referred to setting 
expectations about this. I think that there was some confusion about what a constitution 
document actually was, but Santander has since confirmed this was a mandatory 
requirement. There was an exchange of emails about other requirements before the 
meeting.
As far as the meeting was concerned Ns representative said that the most ridiculous and 
impossible to answer questions were asked but also that the meeting ended with no 
indication that N wouldnt be able to proceed. The member of staff was described as being 
the rudest person we have ever had to deal with. She was arrogant and dismissive from the 
start. Santander has explained that this was a pre introduction meeting and that this would 
have been set out. I appreciate the representatives of N found this onerous but clearly 
Santander had a lot of detailed questions to pursue. That and the outcome may have 
affected how those representatives perceived this meeting and so thought that their time 
was being wasted. In the absence of any recording of the discussion I cant fairly make 
further comment about the manner of the member of staff.
Our investigator wasnt suggesting that there are no service standards for business 
customers. But that when looking at this complaint, the complainant is a separate legal 
entity. And a company cant suffer distress, so wed not be making such an award in these 
circumstances. I do take Ns point about the person reviewing the complaint being the 
person who had been criticised. But I also note that after the final response this was 
escalated to another member of the complaints team for review and that the Head of 
Relationship Management at Santander was involved.
I dont doubt the difficulties for N of opening an account. And why it thought that Santander 
was the obvious choice. But I note the detailed information that was collected about N in 
advance of a formal application and the endorsement Santander has since made of its 
position on an application by N. So, I dont have a basis to find that it made a mistake or 
didnt go through a fair process and apply its criteria. And as a result, I dont consider that N 
has been caused needless inconvenience. For the reasons Ive given I wont be requiring 
Santander to do anything further. I can appreciate that the representatives of N will be very 
disappointed about that.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman