DRN-4041786
The complaint
Miss B, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on her catalogue shopping account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Miss B. 
The account was opened in March 2018 with Miss B being given an initial credit limit of 
£300. This limit was increased five times until it reached £1,000 in October 2019. 
Miss B says shes unhappy that Studio Retail granted her the credit and then continued to 
increase her credit limit when she was only making minimum payments each month and 
was already in financial difficulties.
In my provisional decision dated 6 March 2023, I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold any part of Miss Bs complaint. This is because I wasnt persuaded that 
Studio Retail ought to have seen that Miss Bs financial circumstances were such that 
granting her the opening credit limit and then the various credit limit increases was unfair 
or unreasonable. I set out an extract below:
Ive seen that that at the time of the account opening Studio Retail noted that Miss B 
had four other revolving credit accounts she was using and that for each account she 
was using more than 50% of the available credit. Its possible that Studio Retails checks 
werent sufficient. But even if the checks werent as good as they should have been, I 
dont think better enquiries would have caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit 
wasnt affordable. I say this because Studio Retail gave Miss B an initial credit limit of 
£300, which even if the whole credit was used, would require relatively modest monthly 
repayments. Her management of other credit in the past had generally been good and 
there was no evidence from the checks of financial difficulties such or recent defaulted 
accounts or county court judgments. Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think 
that better checks at this point would have led Studio Retail to decline the opening 
credit.
Turning to the five credit limit increases, Ive seen that Miss B tended to make minimum 
payments only and was also often using 90% or more of the available credit. That could 
be a concern if there were other factors suggesting she might be getting into significant 
difficulty in meeting payments. Thats also something that better proportionate checks by 
Studio Retail into Miss Bs daily outgoings and financial commitments elsewhere could 
have shown. Ive also noticed that during the time she was being given credit limit 
increases, whilst she didnt miss or make any late payments, she went over her credit 
limit on eight occasions. Studio Retail has pointed out, however, that Miss B was only 
marginally over her credit limit and this was due to the interest and overlimit charges 
being added to the account. 
Given what Ive seen so far - and that I dont have bank statement or other evidence 
other than from around the time the account was opened and up to the first credit limit 
increase in May 2018 - Im not able to say that Miss Bs daily outgoings and committed 
expenditure at the time were such that Studio Retail ought to have known that her 
financial situation might have been worsening. And Ive seen from the credit reference 
agency information Studio Retail was relying on that her overall position regarding credit 
held elsewhere appears to have been generally improving between April and October 
2019 when she was being granted credit limit increases from £400 up to £500, £650 and 
then £1,000. 
It follows that currently Im not able to make a finding that Studio Retail was wrong to 
grant Miss B any of the five credit limit increases she was given. Miss B appeared to be 
managing the account fairly well, with little evidence to suggest she was getting into 
difficulties with managing to meet the payments that were required of her.
The third party representing Miss B acknowledged receiving my provisional decision and 
Miss B confirmed that she had nothing further to add. Studio Retail hasnt responded by 
the date requested, which was 20 March 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that Miss B responded and said she has nothing further to add, and Studio Retail 
has not responded in the timeframe I provided, I see no reason to change the findings I 
set out in my provisional decision. I therefore dont consider that Studio Retail acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, either in granting the opening credit or the subsequent credit 
limit increases. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman