DRN-4072004
The complaint
Mr R complains that Experian Limited merged his data with that of a third party and 
breached data protection rules causing him distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
On 17 October 2022 Experian sent a debt collection company (that Ill call D) data that 
included both Mr Rs personal information and that of a relative (who Ill refer to as B). In 
mid-November 2022 D sent Mr R a text message about a debt belonging to B - that had 
nothing to do with Mr R - which included a reference and a link to Bs account. Mr R was 
unhappy that Experian had merged his information with Bs details incorrectly and wrongly 
supplied Mr Rs personal details to D so he raised a complaint.  
Experian asked for some more information and provided a final response to Mr Rs 
complaint in early February 2023. Experian acknowledged it must have been worrying for Mr 
R to be contacted about a debt that wasnt his and explained that its systems had incorrectly 
mixed Mr Rs information with Bs. Experian said this can sometimes happen if two 
individuals have similar names or the same date or birth and they have lived at the same 
address in the past  which is what led to Experian providing Mr Rs contact number to D. 
Experian apologised and confirmed the information had been separated so the same thing 
couldnt happen again. Acknowledging Mr R felt he should receive around £1,000 
compensation, Experian thought £150 was reasonable in light of what happened  taking 
into account the fact Mr R wasnt impacted financially.  
Mr R didnt think that was fair and he referred the matter to this service. He told us he has 
long term mental health issues and these events caused significant additional stress and 
anxiety. He thinks a four figure award is appropriate and he asked us to review the levels of 
redress offered by Experian.
Our investigator considered the evidence and he was satisfied that Experian made a mistake 
which caused D to contact Mr R about a debt he didnt owe. He explained our role is not to 
punish the business in this situation - we consider the personal impact of the error on the 
consumer. He noted that D named B in the text and he thought Mr R should reasonably 
have realised this wasnt meant for him. He was satisfied the error hadnt caused Mr R to 
experience a financial loss and Experian resolved the issue not too long after he 
complained. He found the £150 compensation offered was fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and he didnt think Experian should have to do anything else.  
Mr R accepted its not the role of our service to fine or punish a financial business but he 
remained unhappy. He referred to our guidelines and principles for redress/compensation as 
follows -  
An award between £100 and up to £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated 
small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable amount of effort to sort out. 
These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either 
some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
An award of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake 
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious 
short-term impact.
Mr R thinks there are elements of his complaint that fall within both of the above bands but 
the higher band is more appropriate as Experians error has caused him to experience 
significant and increased levels of anxiety and distress since November 2022. He told us he 
had long term mental health issues before this but he had no reason to think that B was 
under any financial distress and his sleep was disturbed, which had a negative impact on 
day to day activities - with no other events or factors impacting on this. 
Our investigator remained of the view that £150 was fair and reasonable compensation 
overall. He said the £300-£750 band requires the impact to have lasted over many weeks or 
months or had a serious short-term impact. He was satisfied that Mr R became aware of 
the problem when D texted in mid-November 2022, he complained to Experian in early 
January 2023, the data was removed shortly after and Experian sent its final response in 
early February 2023 - so the matter was resolved in about two months. He wasnt persuaded 
that amounted to many weeks or months (contemplated under the higher compensation 
band) and he didnt think theres sufficient evidence that the impact of Experians error on Mr 
Rs mental health was significant enough to warrant an increase in the compensation 
offered.    
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, he says the primary and 
original source of his heightened stress and anxiety is Experians mistakes - merging data 
started on 17 November 2022 and the data was not uncoupled until 26 January 2023 - at 
least. He also considers it is imperative to find out when the data was merged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has gone to some trouble to provide very detailed submissions and I want to assure 
him, if I dont address every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought 
about it. I have considered everything that the parties have said and sent to us. However, Im 
going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome. 
The role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers informally. Im not a regulator and I dont have the power to investigate the way 
Experian operates on a day to day basis. When an error has occurred, I consider how the 
business has endeavoured to address the issue and whether thats fair and reasonable. In 
doing so I consider the evidence provided by both parties (without taking sides) along with 
relevant law and industry guidance (amongst other things) in order to decide what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome - taking account of all the circumstances.
I understand Mr R raised the issue with D first and he contacted Experian at the start of 
January 2023. Im satisfied Experian took steps to investigate, accepted a mistake was 
made and fixed things relatively quickly - within a month or so of Mr R raising the matter. I 
note Mr R says Experian supplied the data to D in October 2022 but I cant see that caused 
him any additional detriment  Mr R wasnt aware of the issue until he was contacted by D in 
mid-November 2022. Im satisfied Experian has acknowledged the worry and concern caused to Mr R by its 
mistake and it apologised and paid him £150 compensation to reflect that. I appreciate Mr R 
doesnt think Experian has done enough to put things right. He considers a much higher 
compensation amount would be appropriate but Im afraid I dont agree. Im satisfied that Mr 
R hasnt suffered a financial loss here and, weighing up everything that happened, I think 
£150 compensation seems fair and reasonable overall. 
After the matter was referred to me for a decision, Mr R told us hed discovered the relevant 
data was merged some time before August 2021 and remained so until Experian took 
remedial action in late January 2023. Ive seen nothing to suggest this had any significant 
impact on Mr R until the matters complained about here occurred and Im not persuaded it 
means the level of compensation offered should be increased. 
Mr R has also supplied some additional information about a different credit reference agency 
(CRA) that made a similar error some time ago. He says that CRA paid £400 compensation 
to both parties involved, in addition to fixing the mistake. I understand Mr R feels this is a 
more appropriate level of redress but I cant reasonably require Experian to pay more 
compensation here on those grounds.  
I realise Mr R is very concerned about how his personal information was merged and shared 
incorrectly. As the investigator has explained however, it's not the role of this service to 
decide if theres been a breach of data protection legislation. It is open to Mr R to contact the 
Office of the Information Commissioner (ICO) about that, if he wishes to do so. 
I appreciate this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R but, having thought 
about everything that happened carefully, Im not persuaded that there are enough fair and 
reasonable grounds to require Experian to do more than it has offered already. Mr R isnt 
obliged to accept what Ive said  in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter 
by any other means available.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that Experian Limiteds offer to pay Mr R £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable and Experian 
Limited should pay this amount to Mr R, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman