DRN-2606048
The complaint
X complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) have asked her 
to increase the monthly payment on her store card, and they will suspend her account if she 
doesnt. 
What happened
X took out an Argos store card several years ago. In June 2019, Argos identified Xs account 
had been in persistent debt for 18 months  meaning more had been paid towards interest 
and charges than had been paid to reduce the outstanding balance. Argos wrote to X asking 
her to pay more than the minimum monthly payment in order to clear the balance sooner.
Argos informed X in March 2020 that the account was still in persistent debt. Around nine 
months later, the account had been in persistent debt for 36 months. Argos wrote to X and 
said she would need to contact them within 60 days to confirm whether she:
Could repay the balance in full; or
Pay more each month; or
Couldnt afford to pay more.
The letter said the account would be suspended if X didnt respond, or if she couldnt 
increase the monthly repayment. X was unhappy with this as she didnt want the account to 
be suspended, so she raised a complaint. Argos sent X their final response and said they 
had an obligation to help her repay the balance more quickly - and as she couldnt pay more, 
they would need to suspend the account instead to help her reduce the balance. Unhappy 
with their response, X referred the complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Argos had been fair to 
write to X as this was a regulatory requirement set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). He said it was reasonable they would suspend the account so that X could pay off 
the balance more quickly given the length of time the account had been in persistent debt 
for.
X disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2018, the FCA issued new rules and guidance about persistent debt. Businesses 
have an obligation to identify accounts where more has been paid towards interest and 
charges than to the borrowing. Under the guidelines, if an account falls into persistent debt 
Argos are required to send out a series of correspondence, informing customers of the steps 
they can take to reduce the balance more quickly. 
For any accounts in persistent debt for 36 months or more, Argos have a responsibility to 
help the borrower try and reduce the balance. If the borrower is unable to increase their 
monthly payments, the regulations set out that it may be necessary for accounts to be 
suspended or cancelled in order to ensure the balance is repaid within a reasonable period.
Argos identified X in persistent debt, and so were obliged to follow the guidelines as outlined 
above and contact her about this. Having reviewed the letters, I can see the content is in line 
with the FCAs guidance  this includes X being informed the account could be suspended. 
And so, Argos acted fairly and reasonably by sending the letters to X although I appreciate it 
caused her upset when she received them.
Argos have now said they will suspend Xs account as she is unable to pay more than the 
minimum monthly payment. I think this is fair in the circumstances, as Argos have an 
obligation to help X bring her account out of persistent debt  especially given her account 
has been in this position for over 36 months now. Suspending the card at this point will 
ensure no further spending and help X to reduce the balance given that she cant increase 
her monthly payment. This is in keeping with the guidelines set out by the FCA and so I think 
this is reasonable. 
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I cant see Argos were 
incorrect to send X the letters or that theyve treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman