DRN-2568480
The complaint
Mr H says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr H bought the PPI in 1999 whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr H has already been offered some money back for the 
commission Tesco received from selling him the PPI. 
Mr H still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and disagrees with the adjudicator. 
The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mr H says he never consented to the PPI and was unaware it had been added. But these 
events are now over 21 years ago and although theres no longer a copy available of his 
actual application form, Im familiar with the forms Tesco used at that time. I was also sent a 
copy of such an example application relating to the time period in question.
But I also note the application was a postal one. This means it would have most likely been 
filled out by Mr H in his own time and without any direct intervention from Tesco. I also 
know the form gave an obvious choice to either have, or not have, the PPI and Mr H would 
have been presented with an option headed as Cardholder Payment Protection to add the 
PPI policy. He would have also signed the application form at the bottom. 
Finally, I also see that Mr H did pay some costs for PPI whilst he had the card, over several 
years. I think the costs would have shown up regularly on his account statements and so if 
hed never asked for the cover, Id have expected him to ask Tesco what the charges were 
for. Ive seen nothing to suggest this was done so Im afraid all these things do show its 
much more likely Mr H provided his consent at the time, although I completely accept he 
may not remember this now.
As a postal application this was not an advised sale. So, Tesco didnt need to make sure 
the policy was suitable for him. The decision about buying the cover was for Mr H himself to 
make. 
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
So, I think Mr H would have had enough information on which to make an informed decision. 
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more clearly, but overall I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mr H went on to do.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Hs situation and I think he was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Its 
possible he might have had some moderate sickness protection with his job. But this doesnt 
mean the PPI cover wasnt of value to him. It would have paid out 10% of his outstanding 
credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This would have been in addition 
to any other means he had at that time. I therefore think this policy was of use.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H, but I think the evidence points to him choosing the policy 
himself and in his own time. He also would have been able to see it wasnt something he 
needed to have. 
This means Im not upholding the mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already agreed to pay him for the commission element 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman