DRN-4085106
The complaint
Mrs R says that Registration Transfers Ltd, who Ill call Registration Transfers, made her 
take out finance to buy a number plate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs R, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence to persuade me 
she was forced into taking out a finance agreement by Registration Transfers, who brokered 
it.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Registration Transfers have explained that Mrs R will have completed the loan application 
entirely online. Mrs R says she spoke with Registration Transfers, but shes not been able to 
provide any evidence that she did so ahead of her finance application, or during it. 
Registration Transfers website seems to support the suggestion that the application for 
finance would be completed solely online as the website says:
You will need to complete your finance application online and The online application form 
typically takes less than 3 minutes to complete. Your application is then instantly sent to the 
finance company, and they will typically respond with their decision in around 10 seconds. 
Some applications may take longer to process. If for any reason they can't give you an 
instant decision we'll send you an email the moment the finance company makes a 
decision. And under the FAQ section When you buy online from Regtransfers you have the 
choice of applying for finance by selecting the finance option at the start of the purchase 
process, and completing an online application form.
I think thats likely to be the information that Mrs R saw when making a decision to apply for 
finance and I dont think she would therefore have been likely to have needed to talk to 
Registration Transfers during her application. I dont therefore think theres evidence she 
was made to take out the finance. 
I was very sorry to hear that Mrs R was suffering from poor mental health at the time of her 
application. She says that Registration Transfers should have treated her differently because 
of that, but as Im not persuaded she spoke to Registration Transfers before, or during, her 
credit application, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Registration Transfers should 
have made adjustments for Mrs Rs mental health, as they dont appear to have been aware 
of it at the point the finance agreement was agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman