DRN-3745533
The complaint
Mr N complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy due to 
non-payment. 
What happened
Mr N held a motor insurance policy with Aviva since 2019. It was set up to automatically 
renew and Mr N paid for it monthly using his bank card. It renewed in 2022 but Aviva 
cancelled it shortly afterwards due to non-payment. Mr Ns bank card expired in 2021. 
Aviva say they sent Mr N a letter on 10 January 2022 offering him a new payment date, but 
as payment wasnt received, they cancelled the policy as per the terms. They didnt add the 
cancellation to external databases given it was due to non-payment. 
Mr N says the 2021 renewal email told him not to do anything if he was happy with the cover 
 which he was. Mr N says he mistakenly thought he paid by direct debit, so he didnt do 
anything once his card expired. He also says he didnt receive Avivas 10 January 2022 
letter, and thinks they contributed to the policy cancelling by failing to provide clear renewal 
information. He complained and Aviva didnt uphold it, so he approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought Aviva provided Mr N with clear 
renewal information and acted fairly when cancelling it. Mr N didnt agree. He said, broadly, 
Aviva told him not to do anything and stated the premium would be taken from his account  
rather than his card. As he didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was cancelled as the result of Mr Ns card expiring in 2021. Mr N referred to the 
2021 renewal email he received. He says this told him not to do anything if he was happy 
with cover, and payment would be taken from his account  rather than his card. Mr N says 
he was happy with the level of cover, so he didnt do anything. He also mistakenly thought 
he paid by direct debit and didnt think his payment card  used in previous policy years  
expiring would have any impact. 
Importantly, the 2021 renewal email invited Mr N to go online to view the policy details  
which included the premium details. The 2021 renewal email didnt contain the price of the 
new policy, so Mr N would have had to go online to review this  to check he was happy with 
it. Before Aviva stated Mr N didnt need to do anything, they instructed him to go online to 
view his renewal documents, premium details, and policy schedule. Within this information, it 
clearly stated payment for the new policy would be taken from Mr Ns card (details of that 
card were given), and he needed to check his payment details were up to date. 
The onus was on Mr N to check this information before the policy renewed (including 
checking his payment details were up to date). So, I dont find Aviva failed to provide Mr N 
with clear renewal information in 2021. It might not have been in the format of previous 
renewal years, but this doesnt mean Aviva made an error in 2021. 
Ive gone on to consider what the policy says. It states Aviva may cancel a policy if the 
premium isnt paid, and they will write to a policyholder offering a later payment date. And if 
payment isnt made by then they will cancel the policy. Aviva says they followed this 
approach when sending a letter to Mr N on 10 January 2022 to his postal address. Mr N 
says he didnt receive a copy of this letter. 
Ive seen a copy of it, and its addressed to Mr N with the postal address our service also 
holds for him  so Im satisfied the correct address was used. Its a letter tailored to Mr Ns 
specific circumstances which sets out why payment couldnt be collected and what Mr N 
need to do next  and when. The letter also sets out what would happen next if Mr N didnt 
do anything. Aviva says had there been any errors in sending the letter this would have 
flagged on their systems. Theyve confirmed no issues were reported with the mailing 
system around the time the letter was sent. 
Im satisfied this letter was most likely sent, although I appreciate Mr N says he didnt receive 
a copy of it. Sometimes postal correspondence doesnt end up being received by the person 
its intended for  through no fault of either the sender or receiver. Im unable to hold Aviva 
responsible for this  theyre only responsible for sending it and Im satisfied on balance they 
did. 
I know Mr N later received an email from Aviva when the policy had been cancelled  
whereas, the 10 January 2022 correspondence was sent via letter. Aviva says they sent the 
10 January 2022 correspondence via letter because the policy says they will write to a 
policyholder. Im satisfied the policy sets this out, so I think this was a reasonable method of 
contact for Aviva to use. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman