DRN-1974772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about poor service and delays from Aviva Insurance Limited in 
response to their claim for subsidence damage to their home under their home insurance. 
What happened
In September 2016 Mr and Mrs P raised concerns about subsidence damage at their home. 
Aviva sent its loss adjuster the following month and this led to the monitoring of the property 
in November and soil analysis and arboriculture reports in January 2017.
An engineer for the loss adjuster reported in February 2017 that an oak tree was the cause 
of damage and an application to the local authority followed for the removal of a preservation 
order so the tree could be removed. This was agreed in August and the tree removed in 
September 2017. Mr and Mrs P said they removed other vegetation at their own expense.
From April to December 2017 further monitoring of the property was undertaken. The 
readings from this were assessed and in February 2018 Avivas loss adjusters decided the 
property had stopped moving and it would be safe to commence repairs. A site meeting 
followed in April and a schedule of works was produced in May 2018.
Mr and Mrs P said they werent provided with the schedule of works and werent satisfied the 
subsidence had stopped and in May 2018 they engaged their own structural engineer and 
surveyor. They said they were advised to obtain the monitoring results and a site meeting 
with the loss adjusters. There followed an apparent breakdown of communication and lack of 
agreement on dates that meant the meeting eventually took place in January 2019. 
The meeting decided there had been inadequate monitoring of the property since the oak 
tree was removed. In line with Mr and Mrs Ps structural engineers recommendation, a 
further 12 months monitoring was commenced in March 2019 and completed in March 2020.
In January and July 2019 Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva about the poor handling of their 
claim and a lack of support and compassion from its loss adjuster. They said they appointed 
their own professionals because of the loss adjusters failure to pass on information and said 
they should be reimbursed. They said their home should have been monitored for 12 months 
following removal of the oak tree not three months as stated by the loss adjuster, and 18 
months had been wasted. They said the loss adjuster tried to start work after 8 months 
monitoring rather than the year agreed.
Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint with a payment of £1,500 for poor service. 
Subsequently, Aviva told Mr and Mrs P there had been a delay in arranging the further 
monitoring and offered £50 more compensation. But it said it wouldnt reimburse Mr and Mrs 
P for the cost incurred on their experts as it had already paid for its own experts. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us in December 2019 and said they had suffered 
losses of around £100,000. They wanted to use their own contractors for the repairs to their 
home. Mr and Mrs P appointed a representative for their claim who is a loss assessor and 
said Aviva should pay his and their experts fees and the costs of removing other vegetation. 
Their representative said Aviva should arrange an asbestos test on Mr and Mrs Ps ceiling 
and review a similar claim by a previous owner of their home in 2011.
Aviva agreed to pay for Mr and Mrs Ps experts fees and changed loss adjuster. Mr and Mrs 
Ps representative complained that their experts werent allowed to have management of the 
repairs to the property. Aviva said it had already agreed to collaboration between the various 
experts to reach a schedule of works and following this Mr and Mrs Ps structural engineer 
could manage the claim to completion of the repairs with their chosen contractor.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as she thought Avivas payment 
of compensation to Mr and Mrs P was fair as was its agreement to pay for their experts and 
involve them in the repairs. She didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps representative had affected the 
handling of the claim significantly and so Aviva shouldnt have to pay his fees. She said we 
cant consider the claim made by the previous owner as it doesnt relate to Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim. She said the policy only covers damage caused by subsidence and so she couldnt 
ask Aviva to cover the cost to Mr and Mrs P of removing other vegetation near their home. 
Mr and Mrs P said they were disappointed with the investigators findings. They didnt want 
to press for reimbursement for removing the other vegetation or an inspection of their ceiling. 
But they disagreed about their representatives fees, saying Aviva wouldnt have replaced its 
loss adjuster or met their experts costs. They said the claim had progressed with the 
representatives involvement. And they requested an ombudsman review their complaint.   
Mr and Mrs Ps representative said there were inaccuracies in what the investigator had 
said. He said Mr and Mrs P had the schedule of work in early 2018 but no technical report 
and so they funded their own expert, leading to the extended monitoring. He said several 
attempts were made by Avivas loss adjuster to end the monitoring prematurely and start the 
repairs and due to this type of conduct he had been appointed to represent Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative said he had fundamentally changed the direction of the claim 
as it was he that proposed the involvement of Mr and Mrs Ps structural engineer in the 
repairs, not Aviva and that it remove the original loss adjusters as they were unqualified. He 
said he had obtained agreement for the reimbursement of Mr and Mrs Ps experts fees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I have referred to Aviva, this includes any actions by its agents.
Mr and Mrs P have described their stress, upset and frustration at the effect the protracted 
nature of their claim has had upon their family and the way it has paralysed their wish to 
improve the property. I have great sympathy with them for their ordeal. Subsidence claims, 
by their nature are complex and take a long time to complete. They generally involve many 
different parties and require careful management. My role is to determine if there has been 
unnecessary delay and poor communication and to see if the compensation paid for this by 
an insurer is fair and reasonable.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs P had safety and security concerns about the damage to their 
home (possible damage to gas boiler and windows). Aviva responded to these concerns by 
sending an engineer to inspect the property. Although Mr and Mrs P were in a difficult 
position I think Aviva responded correctly to their concerns.
Mr and Mrs P were aware that repairs to their home had to wait until it was certain that the 
property had stabilised. They were concerned that Aviva was moving to the repair stage too quickly. From what Ive seen there was no delay from Aviva up until the removal of the oak 
tree and beyond this to the conclusion of the first monitoring at the end of 2017. Mr and Mrs 
P involved their own experts at this time, and they suggested a site meeting. The meeting 
took eight months to arrange. I have seen delays on both sides that contributed to this but 
mainly from the loss adjusters. From this meeting 12 months of monitoring was agreed but 
the start was delayed until March 2019. Again, this was due to Avivas agents.
I see no reason why Avivas loss adjuster couldnt provide Mr and Mrs P with the results of 
the monitoring of their home in Spring 2018. I can see why the lack of this information 
encouraged them to employ their own professionals. Ive seen the report from Mr and Mrs 
Ps structural engineer recommending 12 month monitoring following removal of the oak 
tree. This would appear to be a sensible precaution against further downward movement of 
the property and Im glad Aviva eventually agreed. Im also pleased that Aviva has since 
agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the professional fees theyve incurred. This seems 
reasonable given the significant effect on the conduct of the claim their experts had. 
I have seen it also took Aviva many months to respond to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. And 
Ive seen poor and confused communications from Aviva and its contractors during the 
claim. This included a misguided attempt to commence the repairs before the monitoring 
period had concluded.
Mr and Mrs P said they wanted to use their own contractors to carry out the repairs to their 
home. There was protracted correspondence between Mr and Mrs Ps representatives and 
Aviva about this. Protracted in the main because Mr and Mrs Ps representative doesnt 
appear to have read Avivas emails properly to see that he had the agreement concerning 
their experts involvement that he sought. The representative later amended his position 
slightly and agreed it was acceptable for Avivas contractors to oversee the repairs.
Mr and Mrs P want to be reimbursed for the cost of their representative. Aviva has declined. 
There is no cover under the policy for the insured to recover any costs associated with 
policyholders appointment of their own representative. And we generally don't ask 
businesses to cover these type of costs. 
The investigator declined these fees on the basis that the representative hadnt made 
significant difference to the claim. The representative set out the factors he thought 
demonstrated the opposite to be true. I can see the representative was appointed in 
December 2019 at the time the complaint was referred to us. Following this I can see that he 
assisted Mr and Mrs P and applied influence on the conduct of the claim with Aviva. 
However, our service would have required Aviva to meet the expert costs incurred by Mr and 
Mrs P without the representatives involvement and equally required the experts 
involvement in the repair part of the claim. I havent seen any significant influence in this 
regard that would change our normal approach. And consumers can send us their 
complaints without any assistance as our approach is geared towards accessible complaint 
handling. For these reasons I dont think it would be fair to require Aviva to meet the 
representatives fees. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative asked us to review a 2011 claim made by the previous owner 
of their home. This service is unable to review a claim made by a third party without that 
partys authority. 
Mr and Mrs P requested an asbestos test on their ceiling. I would expect this to have been 
included within the scope of work for the repairs and any issues emanating from this should 
be addressed. I note that Mr and Mrs P are not pursuing this or their costs in removing vegetation near their home. Other than the oak tree, the removal of which was paid for by 
Aviva, this wasnt identified as a cause of subsidence in any report and so I think this is fair. 
Aviva has paid Mr and Mrs P £1,500 compensation for the impact of its poor service during 
their claim. This included the issues Ive addressed here and in the main relates to delays 
caused by its loss adjusters and their poor service in terms of poor decisions and 
communications about the claim. Overall, I think this compensation is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs P have suffered through Avivas 
poor service.
Mr and Mrs P have said they havent received the other £50 compensation offered by Aviva, 
but in any event they said £100,000 would be reasonable. I havent seen any details about 
this sum, but compensation of this magnitude would only be awarded as damages, which is 
in the realm of the court. And given the vast difference in the positions of the parties I should 
point out to Mr and Mrs P that by rejecting this decision their options remain open including 
legal action should they wish to take it. In any event Aviva should now pay Mr and Mrs P the 
additional £50 compensation it offered them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman