DRN-2662058
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) disputes she held an 
account with them despite her providing a passbook as evidence. 
What happened
Mrs A says she opened a savings account with Nationwide in 1985 and a balance remained 
in that account, in excess of £5000. Mrs A says Nationwide are disputing the account exists 
and the only account they hold for her is for a different account number and has a balance of 
less than £100. Mrs A says this is despite her providing Nationwide with her passbook 
detailing the balance and account details. Mrs A says she has no knowledge of the other 
account details to which Nationwide refer. Mrs A wants access to her original savings plus 
the interest it would have accrued since the last entry in her passbook, an apology and a 
goodwill gesture for the trouble and upset Nationwide have caused.
Nationwide says their records only show they hold an account for Mrs A showing a balance 
of less than £100 and with a different account number. They have provided a copy to Mrs A 
and this service of a document which they say shows the passbook was lost in July 1987 
and the balance transferred into the account they now hold for Mrs A. Nationwide have said 
they dont hold records of account transactions going back any further than 2001 so cant 
provide statements showing the transactions on Mrs A savings account. Nationwide says 
they have not made an error here. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. 
She felt the balance of Mrs As old passbook would have been transferred to the account 
that Nationwide now hold for her. The investigator felt based on the weight of evidence the 
balance on the old passbook was more than likely withdrawn at some point before 2001. 
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would be upsetting for Mrs A to have believed she had savings of over £5000 
with Nationwide, only to be told they had no record of this account even when she produced 
her passbook for the account. When looking into this complaint, I have considered whether 
Nationwide are at fault for not being able to locate the whereabouts of Mrs As savings 
account balance as detailed in her passbook. 
Mrs A says she has evidence she holds a balance in excess of £5000 in a savings account 
with Nationwide and has provided them with her passbook to prove so. Mrs A says she has 
no recollection of opening a second account with Nationwide, or that she ever reported she 
lost her original passbook as they claim. Mrs A feels the documents provided by Nationwide 
to show her passbook had been lost and the balance transferred was simply someone at 
Nationwide writing over her original account application for the account two years after she 
opened the savings account in 1985. Mrs A doesnt feel this is reliable evidence from 
Nationwide, that she reported the passbook as lost, or the balance of her savings account 
was transferred into the replacement account. 
Nationwide says there wasnt two savings accounts, the previous savings account balance 
that Mrs A refers to and has the pass book for, was transferred into the account which they 
have referred to in their final response letter to Mrs A and now holds a balance of under 
£100. Nationwide says they dont hold records going back over 30 years, despite 
undertaking a thorough investigation, and are unable to identify what transactions passed 
through Mrs As savings account between 1987 until 2001. 
I understand the points both parties make here, and it is difficult for either side to be 
expected to fully recall what happened over 30 years ago. Its worth saying, we wouldnt 
expect building societies, like Nationwide, to retain records going that far back, but that said I 
have seen that Nationwide have made attempts to trace as much information as they could. 
When looking at this, given how far back this complaint refers, I have had to base my 
decision on the weight of evidence available and as a result the probability of what has 
happened here. 
While Mrs A may not agree, the production of the Nationwide pass book isnt in itself 
evidence the balance shown in it, is proof the monies are still available to her. I say this 
because transactions on these accounts can still be carried out without the production of the 
passbook. Nationwide have explained to this service the original savings account passbook 
in Mrs As name had been reported as lost and have provided a note made on the original 
application, which is annotated in July 1987 as TF from lost book  and refers to both the old 
and new account numbers. This was along with a second partly blank, account application 
form indicating the balance from the old savings account had been transferred to this new 
savings account and again quoting both account numbers. Mrs A feels this isnt conclusive 
evidence she lost the passbook for the savings account or the balance she had in that 
account was transferred to the new account, as she has no recollection of reporting the 
passbook as lost. 
I do understand what Mrs A is saying here but I have to take an impartial view and consider 
what was most likely to have happened. The forms Nationwide provided to this service seem 
to indicate , from the stationery numbers on them (P68 (1-87) & P68 (4-85), they are from 
over 30 years ago, with the last digits referring to the month and year of their issue, so I am 
satisfied any annotation made on them would have been around that time. This seems to 
reconcile with Nationwides series of events, and I have no reason to believe these 
documents arent what Nationwide may have used at the time to transfer the balance from 
one account to another, even if thats not the procedures they might carry out today. 
It follows, on balance it seems Mrs A did report her passbook as lost and that is why her old 
savings account was transferred into the new account and why Nationwide now have this as 
the only savings account with them. As the investigator has said we wouldnt expect 
Nationwide to retain account transaction history going back over 30 years, and their records 
only go back as far as 2001. I am satisfied, given the years that have passed there would be 
no record of what transactions took place on Mrs As savings account, but on balance any 
transactions made between 1987 and 2001, would in all likelihood have been made and 
authorised by her.  I can understand the frustration of Mrs A here, but I have remained impartial and came to my 
conclusions based on the evidence I have seen and the likelihood of events, especially given 
the number of years that have passed. It follows, I cant say that Nationwide would have 
taken the steps to open a new savings account and documented in their records the loss of 
Mrs As passbook and the transfer to the new account, if that hadnt happened. 
While Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman