DRN-1719038
 
The complaint
Miss F complains that The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. blocked her account. She wants 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
What happened
On 18 November, The Co-operative was made aware that a £200 credit to Miss F's account 
had not been authorised. It blocked Miss F's account while it carried out a fraud 
investigation. 
The bank unblocked Miss F's account on 31 December when it concluded its investigation 
and decided Miss F had no involvement in, or knowledge of, the unauthorised transaction.
During the time her account was blocked, Miss F was able to withdraw money at a Co-
operative branch. But she's explained how inconvenient this was for her and how, on the first 
visit, she was told she couldn't withdraw any money and it took some time for the branch to 
agree, and then she was only allowed £50. She's also told us that she had to ask family 
members to make payments on her behalf and borrow money from friends.
Our investigator concluded that The Co-operative had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. But that it took six weeks for her account to be unblocked and the bank should 
have done more to mitigate the impact on Miss F. He thought The Co-operative should pay 
Miss F £100.
Miss F agreed with our investigator's conclusions, but said she'd been paying £15.50 each 
month for a Privilege Premier account and didn't think she'd been treated respectfully or with 
any understanding. And that the bank had given her wrong information.
The Co-operative did not agree to pay Miss F £100. It said it had acted in line with its terms 
and conditions, that its investigation had not been delayed, and that Miss F had been able to 
withdraw money from her account at her local branch which was close to her home.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 18 November, Miss F's account was credited with £200 from a third party account held at 
another bank. Later that same day, the third party bank contacted The Co-operative to tell it 
that the payment hadn't been authorised by the account holder. 
The Co-operative account terms and conditions say:"9.3  If we reasonably believe that a payment into your account was made as a result of 
fraud, well remove the payment or take other steps to make sure the amount of the payment 
is not available for you to use.
9.4  If we reasonably believe a payment was made into your account by mistake, well return 
it to the paying bank unless you can show us it was not made by mistake. Well take these 
steps before returning the payment:
(a) If you received the payment less than two months before we find out about the mistake, 
well tell you about it and give you 15 Business Days to show us it was not made by mistake. 
During this period well make sure the amount of the payment is not available for you to use 
(we may do this by taking the amount out of your account or by limiting access to the amount 
on the account)."
On 18 November The Co-operative did not know if the credit was fraudulent - and that Miss 
F was involved in that fraud - or a mistake. So it had to investigate. It says it acted in line 
with its terms and conditions in blocking Miss F's account while it carried out its investigation. 
Effectively, by blocking her account, the bank was taking "steps to make sure the amount of 
the payment is not available for you to use".
But its terms and conditions also allowed it to remove the £200 and then Miss F could have 
continued to use her account as normal. I find this would have been the more reasonable 
thing to do, particularly as Miss F told the bank she had no knowledge of the credit and there 
had been no attempt by her to try to keep the money - either by withdrawing it as soon as it 
was received or by telling the bank it was a payment she was due.
By blocking her account for six weeks instead of removing the £200, I find Miss F was 
caused considerable inconvenience. She's given us examples of particular transactions that 
she needed to make that she had to ask a family member to carry out on her behalf. And this 
all happened in the lead up to, and over, the Christmas period, which would have made 
things particularly inconvenient for her. It's also clear there was some confusion when she 
went to the branch on the first occasion and it took some time before the bank would allow 
her to withdraw any money. Taking all this into consideration, I find £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to be fair and reasonable.
I've taken into account what Miss F says about paying for her account. But the monthly fee 
allows her to take advantage of several free insurance products, which would still have been 
available to her while her account was blocked. So I don't find there's any obligation on The 
Co-operative to refund her account fees for the period her account was blocked. 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. should pay Miss F £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman