DRN-3330758
The complaint
Mr M says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that not only should the interest and late payment charges he paid on the 
accounts be refunded but he also thinks the debt should be written off. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Mr 
M. 
Account A was opened on 29 September 2020 with Mr M being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. Account B was opened in October 2020 with Mr M being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. The credit limits on both accounts were never increased.
In 2021, Mr M complained to J D Williams to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought that J D Williams ought not to have 
offered the credit accounts it did. He thought that because Mr M had a number of credit 
accounts with balances on them, and a number of those already in default.  
J D Williams has agreed with that finding and has offered to make the payment of our 
standard redress as specified by our adjudicator, which I will detail later. So, in the absence 
of any argument about the merits of the complaint, I propose to say nothing more about 
them in this decision. 
Mr M is not happy with the suggested redress and feels that his existing debts should be 
written off. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
In the assessment the adjudicator explained how J D Williams should put things right. He 
said,
How to put things right
I dont think Mr M shouldve been given either of the accounts. I think Mr M 
should pay the cash price for any goods he has kept.
But I dont think Mr M should have to pay any interest or charges, so all 
interest (including any Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest) and charges should 
be removed.
JD Williams should work out how much Mr M would have owed after the
above adjustments. Any repayment Mr M made since 29 September 2020 
should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to 
Mr M along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr M no longer owes any money then 
all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit 
file from 29 September 2020.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, JD Williams should to look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mr M for the outstanding amount. As the debt was 
sold to a third party  Debt Managers, JD Williams are to either repurchase the 
debt or liaise with the debt owner to ensure the above steps are undertaken. 
Once Mr M has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed 
from the credit file.
I would like to remind JD Williams of its obligations to treat Mr M fairly if they are having 
difficulties meeting the repayments. If Mr M feels they have been treated unfairly they are 
to discuss this with JD Williams first, and we can consider this as a separate complaint if 
he is unhappy with their response
*HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
I think that this is the correct redress for this case. So, I think that J D Williams should put 
things right as detailed above. 
Mr M thinks that the capital balance of both accounts should be written off. Mr M said that 
he couldnt afford any payments from the outset and that should have been clear to J D 
Williams from the start. Mr M also thinks that J D Williams made a mistake in giving him 
credit and shouldnt profit from their error. 
But I think that Mr M has had the benefit of the goods he purchased. It wouldnt generally be 
reasonable to say that Mr M shouldnt pay the cash price for them. However, the redress 
directed above sets out that Id expect J D Williams to set up an affordable repayment plan for any capital that is outstanding. If Mr M demonstrates to JD Williams that he isnt in a 
financial position to pay anything towards the capital balance for the foreseeable future I 
would expect them to treat him with forbearance, which may include considering whether 
writing off some or all of the capital would be appropriate. 
Mr M has set out why he thinks J D Williams will still profit from selling him goods even if it 
has to refund all interest. However, any redress I award should ensure that Mr M hasnt lost 
out financially as a result of J D Williams actions. Our service isnt the financial services 
regulator, so it isnt our role to punish businesses. Im satisfied that the redress Ive set out 
ensures that Mr M is appropriately compensated for J D Williams making unfair lending 
decisions.
 
Putting things right
J D Williams & Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. J D Williams & Company Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman