DRN-1385680
 
The complaint
Ms L says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about 22 instalment loans Sunny provided to Ms L between March 2017 
and March 2019.  Ms L borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £950 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. Ms L often repaid her loans the same or following day, but some loans 
overlapped. Ms L borrowed from Sunny for two years with a significant break in the 
borrowing between loans 17 and 18. Ms L repaid all her loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ls complaint in part and thought loan 1 and the loans from 3 to 
17 shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and it offered redress for loans 16 and 17. 
But Ms L was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
Sunny asked Ms L for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Ms L said she earned £1,100 monthly for loans 1 to 17 and about £1,300 for her last 
five loans. She also provided details of her monthly outcome and Sunny calculated her 
monthly disposable income. From what I can see, its credit checks didnt show anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. 
There was a gap of over six months between loans 17 and 18. Therefore I think it would be 
reasonable for Sunny to treat the loans from loan 18 onwards as a new chain of lending and 
carry out the affordability checks that were appropriate.
For loans 2 and 18 to 22, given the loan amounts (£50 to £200 with highest expected 
monthly repayments between about £15 and £200), what was apparent about Ms Ls 
circumstances at the time and her history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Ms L provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Ms L was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to have provided 
these loans. 
But as our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loans 1, and 3 to 17 would most 
likely have shown that Ms L would be unable to sustainably meet her repayments: 
For loan 1, Ms L was expected to repay about £300 a month from her £1,100 
income. This was a significant amount and I think Sunny should have realised that 
Ms L would be unable to meet this and her existing commitments without borrowing 
again.
Ms L took out loan 3 whilst loan 2 was running. Her highest expected monthly 
repayment was now over £300. This again was a significant amount of her income 
and I think Sunny should have realised that Ms L would be unable to sustainably 
meet her repayments for loan 3 or any subsequent loans in the chain of borrowing. 
 
So I think it was wrong for Sunny to have provided loans 1 and  3 to 17. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
13. I say this because by this point the pattern of lending showed that Ms L was persistently 
reliant on short-term loans:
Ms L had taken out 13 loans in under 7 months and the amounts borrowed increased 
over the period of lending;
From loan 13 onwards Ms L was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Ms L was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Ms Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 17 was 
taken out 7 months after Ms Ls first. Ms L had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Ms L lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 13 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ls indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 and 3 to 17 and I think Sunny should put 
things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Ms L paid on loans 1 and 3 to 17;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 3 to 12 from Ms Ls credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 13 to 17 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans 13 to 17 should be removed from Ms Ls 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Ls 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Ms L 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman