DRN-4484783
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved two credit 
cards in his name and increased the credit limit on one of them. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B applied for a credit card with Capital One. In the application, Mr B said he 
was a tenant and employed earning £28,756. Capital One says it caried out a credit search 
and applied its lending criteria to Mr Bs application and approved a credit card with a limit of 
£200. In April 2021 Capital One increased the credit limit to £450.
In August 2021 Mr B applied for a second credit card with Capital One. In this application, Mr 
B said he was a tenant with rent of £260 a month and employed with an income of £42,000. 
Capital One says it carried out a credit search and found details of the unsecured debt Mr B 
owed and a default that was around two years old. Capital One says it also found Mr B had a 
missed payment recorded in the previous six months. Capital One says it applied its lending 
criteria to Mr Bs application and approved a credit card with a limit of £200. 
Earlier this year Mr B complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly when it approved 
his credit card applications and increased the credit limit. Capital One issued a final 
response and agreed that it shouldnt have approved the first credit card. But Capital One 
thought the second credit card had been correctly approved and didnt uphold that part of 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Capital One had made a fair offer to resolve Mr Bs complaint and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Mr B asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
I dont need to make a decision concerning the first credit card Mr B applied for in June 2019 
as Capital One has already agreed to uphold that part of his complaint and refund the 
interest, fees and charges applied. Ive reviewed the refund details Capital One has supplied 
and Im satisfied its very much in line with what wed have told Capital One to pay, if no offer 
had been made. So Im not telling Capital One to take any further action in relation to the first 
credit card Mr B applied for.
Mr Bs second application was made a short time after his credit limit increased on the first 
credit card. But I think its fair to note that the increase was reasonably modest in nature 
taking the credit limit from £200 to £450. And Mr B supplied updated information about his 
circumstances in the application he made in August 2021. In the application, Mr B advised 
he was employed with an income of £42,000 and had monthly rent of £260. Capital One 
applied outgoings it obtained from statistical data and looked at Mr Bs monthly costs for 
servicing his existing credit. Capital One says it found the information obtained showed Mr B 
was able to sustainably meet the repayments required for a credit limit of £200. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mr B has told us, Im satisfied Capital Ones checks during the 
application process for the second credit card were reasonable and proportionate to the type 
and amount of credit being applied for. In short, I havent been persuaded that Capital One 
needed to carry out a more comprehensive set of checks before approving Mr Bs credit card 
application. In my view, the decision to lend in August 2021 was reasonable based on what 
Capital One knew about Mr B. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but as I havent found evidence to 
support Capital One lent irresponsibly, Im not upholding this part of his complaint. That 
means Im unable to tell Capital One to refund the interest Mr B has paid towards the second 
credit card. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied Capital One has already agreed a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman