DRN-3819569
The complaint
Mr Q complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly declined 
his Contents Insurance claim. 
All references to LV also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to the first notification of loss call, and a further call, between Mr Q and 
LV. 
Mr Q told LV in the first call he had attempted to clean the carpet unsuccessfully and 
he had disposed of it. He also told LV he might only be able to provide photos of the 
carpet, pre incident, to which the agent said would be fine
LV said if Mr Q didnt think the carpet could be cleaned it would look to replace the 
carpets and told Mr Q to get quotes for a new carpet. 
Although LV later discussed validating the cost of the carpet, it failed to manage 
Mr Qs expectations it would need to validate the damage or incident itself. I dont 
think it is reasonable for LV to now decline the claim as it has been unable to inspect 
the damage. 
Mr Q followed LVs instructions and provided quotes and a photo of the carpet, so LV 
should now proceed to validate the claim based on the information available.
LV has accepted it caused some delays in responding to Mr Q and has offered £100 
for the inconvenience caused. In the circumstances, I think this is reasonable as it 
fairly represents the inconvenience caused.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
LV should proceed to settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman