DRN-3031529
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2004 and 2009 respectively. Miss F says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) 
mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on either policy, its made an 
offer as if it had.
Miss Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Fs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Fs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Miss F about 
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss F 
paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to 
do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI in 2004 and 2009 
and she chose to take it out. I say this because while BoS no longer has all of the 
paperwork from the time of the sales (not surprising given the passage of time) it has 
provided us with examples from around both times of sale. Looking at these I think it 
would have been clear to a consumer that they had a choice about PPI. Im mindful too 
that in 2009 Miss F wasnt borrowing any more money - the transaction she carried out 
with BoS was only about PPI  so I dont think she would have been under the 
impression she had to have PPI at this time. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something different happened in Miss Fs case in 2004 and in 2009, I think its likely she 
chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss F on both occasions - so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her. And the evidence about Miss Fs circumstances in 2004 and 2009, 
show that the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example 
Miss F was eligible for the cover each time and she had limited means to fall back on to 
make the repayments on her mortgage if she wasnt able to work  so I think she had a 
need for cover. 
There was nothing about Miss Fs employment or occupation in 2004 and 2009, which 
would have made it difficult for her to claim. And although Miss F says she had a couple 
of medical conditions some time before the policies were taken out, I dont think it was 
wrong for BoS to have recommended it each time.
I say this because for the 2004 policy sale the existing medical condition policy limitation 
didnt apply to Miss F because she took out her policy at the same time as her mortgage. 
And for the 2009 policy sale, Miss F hasnt said or implied that the condition she was 
diagnosed with in 2006 and for which she took medication for at the time continued or 
caused her ongoing problems. And this is supported by a piece of paperwork from the 
time of the sale, which records that Miss F answered No  to the question whether she 
was having any ongoing treatment or was seeing her doctor for the same named 
condition. So given this and because the policy would have allowed Miss F to make a 
claim for her condition if shed remained symptom free for 24 months before making a 
claim, I dont think the policy was fundamentally unsuitable for.
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss F about the PPI on both occasions wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out each time - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss 
F as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was likely given in 2004 and again in 2009. It also looks like it 
was affordable for both times  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss F would have declined the 
cover on either occasion had BoS done anything more.
While both policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Fs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, neither policy was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out 
each time.
Overall, I consider that Miss F would have still taken out PPI in 2004 and in 2009. I think the policies could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at each 
time of sale. I also think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she 
was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policies in 
any event.
Miss Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Miss Fs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss F should get back all the money she paid for the policies 
because: BoS failed to tell Miss F about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss F wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for both Miss Fs PPI was less than 
half of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Fs case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAs thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Miss F about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Miss F unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Miss F back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event BoS has paid back to Miss F some of the cost of the PPI to compensate 
Miss F as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Fs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss F paid 
for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss F  so it doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman