DRN-3975925
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have 
accepted liability on a claim against her without taking into account her view, that they have 
declined her claim for damage to her bike, and that their expert has caused damage to her 
bike. 
What happened
In July 2022 Miss T had a cycling accident in which she collided with another cyclist whilst 
riding as part of a group. 
Miss T made a claim on her insurance policy for damage to her bike as the rear derailleur 
was bent and she was unable to remove the rear wheel. She also passed her insurance 
details to the third party as she didnt want direct contact with him. Miss T believed that the 
third party was at fault for the collision. 
Red Sands advised Miss T that the third party had made a claim on her policy for his bike 
repairs, and he had claimed that she was responsible for the collision. Red Sands accepted 
liability for the accident as they said that because Miss T went into the back of the third 
party, they couldnt object to the claim. 
Miss T took her bike into her local bike shop for an assessment and received a written report 
which advised her bike was a write off. 
Red Sands arranged for their own contractor to assess and repair Miss Ts bike. Miss T 
packed the bike and it was collected by the courier.
 
The contractor examined the bike and advised that in their opinion Miss Ts bike was not 
damaged.
  
When the bike was returned to her, Miss T says that the rear wheel had been removed and 
a shield was missing. She says that in order to remove the rear wheel the contractor will 
have to have bent the rear derailleur back, which would have put stress on the carbon frame. 
So, Miss T doesnt accept the findings of the contractor and believes they have caused 
further damage. Miss T complained to Red Sands about this but they didnt uphold her 
complaint.  
  
Miss T was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ts complaint. He thought that Red Sands had 
acted fairly in terms of accepting liability, but he thought that in view of the conflicting reports 
from the experts, a third opinion should be sought and he recommended that Red Sands 
commission a further examination and report. 
Miss T was unhappy with this outcome and has asked for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Liability
Miss T says that the third party should be held liable for the collision as he cut across her 
path which was why she collided into his rear wheel.
Red Sands have said that one of the dangers of riding in groups is wheels overlapping and 
that in such situations it can be hard to apportion blame. They have to rely on the location of 
the damage unless a witness statement is made to corroborate that the accident was 
intentional. 
In this case, no witness statements have been provided, and so they have relied on the 
inspection of the both bikes by their contractor, which found rear damage to the third-party 
bike and no damage to Miss Ts bike. On that basis, they decided to settle the claim in the 
third partys favour as they had no grounds on which to disprove the third partys claim. 
At page 15 of Miss Ts policy is says:
4. We will be entitled to take over and deal with, in your name, the defence or 
settlement of any claim at our discretion and to take proceedings at our expense to 
recover for our benefit the amount of any payment made under this policy.
This means that if Red Sands decide that they dont have a defence to the question of 
liability, they can settle the case as they see fit, including accepting liability, irrespective of 
the views of the policy holder. 
  
In cases like this its not for me to decide who is liable for an accident, but to consider 
whether Red Sands have acted fairly in applying the policy term which allows them to admit 
liability despite Miss Ts objection. 
There isnt any independent witness evidence available and so Red Sands have only been 
able to base their decision on the information they have about the damage to the bikes. The 
third-party bike has damage to the rear and Miss T doesnt dispute that she went into the 
back of him. However, she thinks he cut across her dangerously causing the accident. 
Unfortunately there isnt any witness evidence to support this and so I agree with the 
investigator that whilst I appreciate how strongly Miss T feels about not being responsible for 
the accident, it would be difficult for Red Sands to defend this and on the basis of the 
evidence they have, I dont think Red Sands have acted unfairly in accepting liability.    
Damage and repairs
 
There are two issues here. The first is that Miss T doesnt agree with the contractors view  
that there was no damage caused to her bike by the accident. She has provided a report 
from her local bike shop who examined the bike prior to it being sent to the contractor, which says that there is damage which compromises the integrity of the carbon frame, and it 
should be considered a write off.  
These reports are directly conflicting, and they are both provided by specialists, albeit in  
different fields. Im not qualified to say whether one report should be preferred over the other 
as this is a specialist area, but I have seen photographs of the bike and of the injuries 
suffered by Miss T and I consider it likely that the bike may have suffered some damage in 
the collision, and so I agree with the investigator that a third independent report would be the 
best way forward. So, I am going to direct that Red Sands arrange and pay for a further 
report from a third independent expert. If the report determines that there is damage to the 
bike, Id then expect Red Sands to act on the recommendations of the report. 
The second and related issue is that Miss T claims that further damage has been caused to 
her bike whilst in the possession of the repairer or courier. I cant say whether this is the 
case, but a further examination of the bike by an expert would determine what damage there 
is to the bike and it may determine whether it was caused by the accident or subsequently. If 
any damage was caused by Red Sands contractor or the courier, I would expect Red Sands 
to rectify this in line with any recommendations in the report.  
Putting things right
Red Sands should arrange and cover the cost of a third independent report from an 
independent expert who specialises in carbon frames. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Red Sands insurance Company 
(Europe) to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman