DRN-4319638
The complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of Mr S, and Mrs D are unhappy that Metro Bank Plc have sent 
correspondence for Mr Ss Young Savers account to his address, instead of Mrs Ds 
address.
What happened
Mrs D opened a Young Savers account for her grandson, Mr S. They both live at separate 
addresses. Mrs D complained to Metro Bank that correspondence, such as bank statements 
and tax certificates for this account, were sent to Mr Ss address rather than her address. 
She was also unhappy that when she requested a statement in branch, she could see her 
daughter, Mrs Ss details.
Metro Bank said they spoke to the branch and reviewed the statements for the account and 
couldnt find any errors. They asked Mrs D to provide a copy of the document which had Mrs 
Ss details for them to review further. They also explained that regardless of the age of the 
account holder, they send statements to the registered address of the primary account 
holder. So, they didnt agree any errors had been made, but they apologised for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S and Mrs D referred their complaint to our service. Mrs D felt that 
since shed opened the account, the statements should be sent to her address. She didnt 
think Mr S and Mrs S should have access or details of the account. Mrs D also mentioned 
that shes experienced issues in the branch when paying money into Mr Ss account. Shes 
explained that despite providing the correct details, Metro Bank have paid it onto a different 
Young Savers account that he holds with Mrs S.  
Our investigator didnt think Metro Bank had done anything wrong. She felt it was fair and 
reasonable for Metro Bank to issue correspondence to Mr Ss address, as hes the account 
owner. But she pointed out that Mrs D could ask Metro Bank to change the correspondence 
address as shes able to manage the account. She also didnt think there were any errors in 
the statements.
In relation to the issues with the deposits into the account, our investigator explained we 
couldnt look into it as part of this complaint, as Mr S and Mrs D needed to complain to Metro 
Bank first. And if they remained unhappy, they could then refer the matter to our service as a 
separate complaint. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs S explained that Mr S 
acknowledged that the account belongs to Mrs D and any letters should be sent to her. They 
explained they shouldnt be able to see what Mrs D had put into the account or the balance 
held in the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to clarify that Ive not considered the concerns Mrs D has raised about the 
issues shes experienced when depositing funds into Mr Ss account as part of this 
complaint. Our investigator has already explained to Mr S and Mrs D as to how theyll need 
to pursue this matter further as a separate complaint, so I wont repeat it here.
Turning to the other complaint points raised, I can see on the copy of the application form 
completed when Mrs D applied for a Young Savers account, it shows that the account was 
opened for Mr S as the account holder and Mrs D signed for the application as the 
parent/guardian/grandparent. So, Im satisfied the account belongs to Mr S and Mrs D helps 
to manage it on his behalf.
I can understand why Mrs D feels she should be sent the correspondence regarding this 
account directly, as shes managing it on behalf of Mr S. However, Metro Bank have 
explained its their policy to send correspondence to the registered address of the primary 
account holder, in this case Mr S.
Metro Bank are entitled to make commercial decisions on their policies and procedures. Its 
not my role to tell Metro Bank how to operate their day-to-day business, which includes their 
policy on sending correspondence to the primary account holders registered address. This 
is a legitimate use of their commercial judgement. 
The address provided for Mr S on the application is the same address at which Metro Bank 
have sent correspondence to in relation to the account. Since Mr S is the primary account 
holder, and Metro Bank have sent correspondence regarding his account(s) to his registered 
address, I cant fairly say theyve acted unreasonably.
Mrs D isnt prevented from being able to continue to help Mr S manage his account. She 
also retains access to the account online and in branch, so she can view correspondence 
relating to the account herself even though they arent sent to her address directly. 
I understand Mrs D was able to see Mrs Ss details when she requested a statement in 
branch. But she hasnt been able to provide a copy of this statement. The statement Mrs D 
has provided for this account shows its correctly addressed to her and Mr S.
Since Mr S has two Young Savers accounts  one managed by Mrs D and the other by Mrs 
S, I think its possible Mrs D was incorrectly given a statement for the account managed by 
Mrs S. However, Mrs D hasnt been able to show us a copy of the statement which included 
Mrs Ss details, so I dont have sufficient evidence to say Metro Bank made a mistake. I think 
Metro Bank have acted fairly by offering to review this aspect further if Mrs D is able to 
provide them a copy of the statement she says had Mrs Ss details.
Overall, I cant agree Metro Bank have made any errors in how they administered Mr Ss 
account here, so I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman