DRN-1462223
The complaint
Ms R complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed her bank account. She said she thought 
it might have been closed because the local branch manager discriminated against her.
What happened
Ms R was a longstanding customer of Barclays. In March 2019, Ms Rs friend went to a 
Barclays' branch with a letter signed by Ms R saying she wanted her friend to withdraw £250 
for her as she was too unwell to leave her bed. The friend also had a letter from a hospital 
showing Ms R had been admitted to hospital in 2015.
The friend did not have any details for Ms Rs account and did not have any authority on the 
account. The bank was therefore unable to give the friend any money. A member of staff at 
Barclays phoned Ms R to discuss this and Ms R said that as she was housebound, she 
could not visit the branch. In the notes made by the staff member, they said that Ms R was 
rude and abusive to them.
Ms R visited the branch later the same day. The bank said that Ms R swore at staff, was 
intimidating towards other customers and used threatening language.
The next day, the local bank branch wrote to Ms R. The letter said that inappropriate 
behaviour directed at staff would not be tolerated and that the bank must protect its staff 
from intimidation. It said that if this was repeated, it could result in the bank taking formal 
action to restrict Ms Rs access to products and services. 
The next day, having received the letter, Ms R visited the bank branch again. The bank says 
she was very abusive and threatening and that she also left a threatening message on the 
branch managers voicemail. The police were contacted to attend and Ms R was also 
banned from the branch.
The same day, Barclays wrote to Ms R again and said that it was unable to continue as her 
banker. It gave her two months notice, meaning that her bank account would be closed in 
May 2019. It advised Ms R of what action she needed to take as a result of the letter, such 
as making alternative arrangements for a bank account.
Ms R complained to this service. She was unhappy that her bank account had been closed 
and was concerned this might have been because of discrimination. Our investigator did not 
uphold the complaint, she thought Barclays acted reasonably in the circumstances. She did 
not find any evidence of discrimination.
As Ms R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence that Ms Rs behaviour was abusive or intimidating. I have 
seen multiple reports from staff that they or customers were upset by Ms Rs behaviour. 
I have also seen a text message sent to the branch manager that was very abusive. I am 
aware that Ms R says the message was not directed at the branch manager in particular. 
However, regardless of that, I am sure it would have been very upsetting to receive a text 
message with that content, even if it was not personally targeted at that individual.
Although I can appreciate that it must be upsetting for Ms R to have her bank account 
closed, Barclays felt it had to take action following a number of incidents that its staff and 
customers found intimidating, including staff having to call the police. On that basis, I cannot 
say that it was unreasonable for Barclays to close her account.
I have also considered whether the way Barclays closed Ms Rs account was appropriate. In 
its terms and conditions it says:
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will stop 
at the same time. However, we may end this agreement immediately or on less notice (and 
stop providing services and close your account) if we reasonably believe you have seriously 
or persistently broken any terms of the agreement.
I think this means that Barclays made Ms R aware of the possibility of it using this policy. 
When Ms Rs behaviour continued, it gave her two months notice that it was closing her 
account. In the circumstances, I think this was reasonable.
I am also aware that Ms R is concerned that Barclays actions might be due to 
discrimination. I have found no evidence of this and have no reason to believe that any 
action it took was for any reason other than as a result of Ms Rs behaviour.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman