DRN-2604673
The complaint
Mr E complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined his motor insurance claim 
after his vehicle was stolen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr E had his car stolen from a car park but, AXA declined his theft 
claim because he had left the keys behind a wheel in the rear suspension column, which it 
said meant that the claim was excluded from cover. 
Mr E submits that AXA has declined the claim unfairly, as it isnt known for certain whether 
the keys were used to steal the car, which he says were very well hidden. He also doesnt 
think the exclusion regarding keys being left in or on the vehicle was brought to his attention 
when the policy renewed and is also unhappy with the insurers investigation as they did not 
request a police report.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that AXA had declined the 
claim fairly in line with the exclusion and had also highlighted it as a significant term in the 
policy documentation. Mr E disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions set out:
What is not covered
We will not pay for
10. loss of damage arising from the theft of, or from, your vehicle whilst the
a. ignition and/or
b. entry and/or
c. immobilisation
key(s), transmitter(s) or other devices have been left in or on your vehicle.
I do not consider this term to be unclear or ambiguous and, given that Mr E has admitted to 
leaving his keys in or on the vehicle before it was stolen, it clearly falls within the policy 
exclusion. However, Ive also considered whether it is fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on 
the exclusion in these circumstances. 
The mischief this term is seeking to prevent is the insurer being liable to cover the theft of a 
vehicle that could have otherwise been prevented, but for the policyholders negligence. It is 
reasonably foreseeable that if a key is left in or on a vehicle in a busy car park and is then 
left unattended (as was the case here) that the car is more likely be stolen than if the key 
hadnt been left. And that is the risk that has seemingly materialised here.
The so called keys on vehicle exclusion is a relatively common term in my experience, 
found in most motor insurance policies. But it is nonetheless a significant term that the 
policyholder should be made aware of, which means it should be highlighted by the insurer 
and brought to the policyholders attention at the point of sale/renewal. 
Having considered the policy documentation, Im satisfied the exclusion was highlighted in 
the policy documentation. AXA have provided us with a copy of its policy summary 
document that it said was made available to Mr E, which sets out a list of significant or 
unusual exclusions and limits:
Exclusion, condition or limit
We will not pay for loss or damage as the result of theft if the ignition, entry or 
immobilisation key(S) have been left in or on the vehicle. 
AXA have provided evidence to show that the policy summary was provided to Mr E on his 
online document portal which, upon renewal, he was reminded to check. Mr E said he didnt 
receive paper copies of the policy documentation. But in its renewal email, AXA explain that 
it has gone paperless in this regard, but that Mr E could still request to have his documents 
posted to him. It isnt uncommon for insurers not to send paper documentation nowadays in 
an effort to reduce paper waste, and many now make their documentation available through 
online portals. Ive not been made aware of any reasons why Mr E wouldnt have been able 
to access his online portal or check the policy documentation. And given that he was asked 
to do so in his renewal email, Im satisfied that AXA has sufficiently highlighted the exclusion 
to him within the policy summary, and that he ought reasonably to have been aware of it.
Mr E says the renewal email was lost as it was sent to the spam folder of his email account. 
But this is typically due to the settings on the email account itself and is not something AXA 
can fairly be held responsible for. So, in summary, I think that AXA made the exclusion clear 
in the policy documentation, which Mr E was asked to check via his online portal, meaning 
he ought reasonably to have been aware of it. I therefore do not think its unfair for the 
insurer to rely on the exclusion in these circumstances.
There are sometimes other instances where, even though the exclusion was made clear, it 
wouldnt be fair for an insurer to rely on such a term. For example, a policyholder may have 
had their car stolen after temporarily leaving their keys in the ignition to attend to an 
emergency, or the car may have always remained in sight of the insured, where it may then 
be seen as an unfair application of the exclusion. But that is not that case here. I appreciate 
Mr E wanted to leave his keys somewhere he considered to be safe while he went surfing. 
But I do not consider this to be an exceptional reason to put the car at an increased risk of 
being stolen.
I also acknowledge that it is not known for certain whether the keys were in fact found and 
used to steal Mr Es vehicle, and that the police consider the theft couldve been 
orchestrated by an organised crime group. But the theft was unfortunately not captured on 
CCTV, and the police were not able to rule out the keys being used to steal the vehicle. 
There was also no evidence of any other signs of theft related damage, such as broken 
glass from a smashed window. And Im satisfied that leaving the keys on the vehicle at least 
made it possible or easier for the car to be stolen, such that its fair for the insurer to rely on 
the exclusion. I appreciate that the keys were well hidden and not necessarily visible. But given the vehicle 
was in a public car park, its possible that Mr E could have been seen hiding the keys, or that 
he hid them in an area of the car that opportunist thieves know to check for hidden keys. The 
fact that he also then left the vehicle and keys unattended and out of his line of sight also 
meant it was at an increased risk of being stolen. So, having weighed up all the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that AXA has acted unfairly by declining the claim in line 
with the keys on vehicle exclusion.
Mr E considers that AXAs investigation into the theft was insufficient as it failed to request a 
police report. I appreciate that the insurer could have requested this sooner. But, in the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded this would have made any difference to its investigation or 
the outcome of the claim, because the police report didnt say that the keys were not used to 
steal the vehicle. 
AXA has also said that it should have called Mr E to discuss its decision to decline his claim, 
which it should have also followed up with a formal letter. And the insurer has acknowledged 
that it failed to so. I appreciate that its service fell below an acceptable standard in this 
regard, which would have likely caused Mr E a moderate degree of distress and 
inconvenience. But I can see that AXA has already offered £250 in recognition of its failure 
to communicate its decision in line with its standard process, which I consider to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. So, I will not be making any further award.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a crime. But in the circumstances, I consider that AXA has acted fairly by 
declining the claim, which it has done in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman