DRN-3423210
The complaint
Mr M complains about a duplicate entry on his Experian Limited credit file. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr M was subject to a sequestration order which was recorded on his credit 
file. Mr Ms sequestration order ended after 12 months. 
Last year Mr M complained to Experian after he found two sequestration orders recorded on 
his credit file. One entry contained the correct end date, but the other sequestration order 
entry had an end date of November 2019 which was wrong. Mr M explained he found the 
additional entry when trying to obtain a mortgage. 
Experian sent Mr M a final response and said both sequestration order entries were being 
reported by the relevant insolvency service. Experian removed the incorrect entry but didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Experian 
sent us its case file and said it wanted to make Mr M an offer to settle his complaint. 
Experian explained the duplicate entry was recorded as a result of its error, not because of 
details reported by the insolvency service and offered Mr M £100. Our investigator thought 
the offer was a fair way to resolve Mr Ms complaint but he asked to appeal. As a result, Mr 
Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M was so concerned when he found a duplicate entry with incorrect 
dates on his credit file. Mr Ms case was referred to Experian and it took steps to remove the 
incorrect entry which put Mr Ms credit file back into the correct position. I need to decide 
how to fairly resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
I understand Mr M is concerned that the issue impacted his ability to secure a mortgage. 
Experian has provided evidence that shows one credit search was completed by a mortgage 
lender in the months before Mr M complained. And I think its fair to note that there are a 
range of reason why a lender may choose not to proceed. Those can include any adverse 
information recorded on a credit file. Other factors like a borrowers income and 
circumstances are also likely to be considered. For me to uphold this case on the basis that 
Mr M wasnt able to obtain a mortgage Id need to be satisfied it was the duplicate entry that 
was the deciding factor. But I havent seen any evidence that shows the duplicate entry was 
the reason a mortgage application failed to proceed. 
Experian has confirmed it made an error that led to the duplicate entry appearing on Mr Ms 
credit file. Whilst I understand why Mr M is so concerned by the incorrect entry, I havent 
seen anything that indicates it led to a financial loss for him. Experian offered Mr M £100 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the duplicate entry and error in its 
final response. In my view £100 fairly reflects the impact of the duplicate entry on Mr M and 
the error in its final response. As Im satisfied Experian has made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances Im not increasing the award or telling it to take further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Experian Limited to pay Mr M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman