DRN-3125255
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way she was dealt with by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc as 
her interest only mortgage reached the end of its term.
What happened
Mrs Hs mortgage with RBS reached the end of its term in August 2019. There was a 
balance left of just under £30,000.00. Mrs H has lived in the same street all her life and in 
this house for 25 years. Mrs H was anxious about arranging a new mortgage and had an 
initial difficulty in getting a point of contact with RBS. Whilst on a mortgage arrangement call 
with RBS in early 2020, Mrs H noticed that there was a second charge on the deeds for a 
credit card debt owed by her ex-husband for about £13,000.00. Mrs H got some advice that 
the debt might not be payable after the passage of time and wanted that time to pass. 
Then in August 2020, Mrs H got a letter threatening to repossess the property when the 
Coronavirus pandemic was over. Mrs H also got a suspicious text from RBS about a change 
of address. When she phoned RBS, Mrs H was told that her accounts were being split and 
temporarily inaccessible which prevented her sending money to her daughter in lockdown at 
university. A lot of this happened whilst Mrs H was on furlough with concerns about whether 
she would have a job and had the overhanging concern of the possibility of being thrown out 
of her house.
RBS says that because it couldnt agree a new mortgage or repayment plan with Mrs H that 
it moved her account to Recoveries, That would have the effect of closing her accounts but 
instead it says to help Mrs H it began to disassociate the linked accounts. RBS said that it 
took no legal action against Mrs H and was waiting to hear from Mrs H about her proposals. 
But it upheld her complaint that it should have told her in advance of what would happen 
when the account was passed to Recoveries and paid £150 into her account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as RBSs letter was 
a reminder to Mrs H of the consequences if there was no plan in place to deal with the 
outstanding balance and that £150 was fair compensation for the upset Mrs H would have 
felt when her accounts were disassociated without notice. Mrs H disagreed saying that she 
continually updated RBS about her status and was receiving weekly contact from RBS 
asking when she was going to pay off the outstanding balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H complains about how RBS dealt her interest only mortgage account which came to 
the end of its term in 2019. Mrs H seems to have had a difficulty with a point of contact with 
RBS until January 2020. Then when contact was made, Mrs H says she realised that there 
was second charge on the property. My understanding is that Mrs H hoped that the because 
of the time that had passed that the debt wouldnt have to repaid. I see that eventually Mrs H 
got a mortgage with another lender and had to pay off this charge to get the mortgage. 
Having read the file Im pleased that Mrs H has been able to stay in the house and the street 
that means so much to her.
In respect of this part of the complaint, I understand Mrs H to say that RBS were of no 
assistance to her and then began to harass her with threats of repossession. There seems 
to have been contact at the beginning of 2020 to discuss Mrs H getting a transfer of title from 
her ex-husband but the added complication was the discovery of the secured debt and that 
Mrs H hoped it would be statute barred by 8 March 2020. I can see that the RBS staff were 
initially sceptical that the charge would simply fall off and with the difficulties progressing a 
transfer of Title if Mrs Hs husband wasnt to agree. The file notes would suggest that then 
the pandemic intervened, and the next contact appears to be in June when Ms H said she 
was looking for a solicitor and had difficulties because of the pandemic. RBS said it wouldnt 
be taking any legal action and asked Mrs H to update them but there was no contact from 
Mrs H recorded in July.
On 8 August 2020 RBS then issued a letter saying that as there was no arrangement in 
place that it was passing the account to its Recoveries department and threatening legal 
action if there was no response by 18 August. Ive no doubt that this was unwelcome to Mrs 
H. But at that stage about a year had passed since the mortgage had matured when RBS 
would have been due its money and RBS said that there was little engagement from Mrs H. 
So, RBS says that it  wanted to bring Mrs Hs attention to the consequences that might 
follow if there wasnt any engagement by her. In the event RBS didnt start any legal action 
and at the end of October the FCA issued advice to lenders to allow borrowers to delay 
repayment of capital at maturity on interest only mortgages up to 31 October 2021. I 
understand that in the meantime Mrs H has been able to remortgage elsewhere. 
It appears that RBS was prepared to consider a Transfer of Equity for Mrs H with a 
remortgage in January 2020 but a problem arose with the second charge and Mrs Hs hope 
that it would be statute barred in some way by March 2020. I know that Mrs H feels that an 
earlier intervention would have helped as she didnt have a point of contact until January 
2020 and on looking at RBSs file notes its not clear which team were actually dealing with 
this. But when there was a point of contact the issue of the second charge emerged and also 
the reluctance of Mrs Hs ex-husband to assist in transferring the equity to her. So, Im not 
convinced that a definite point of contact for Mrs H before January 2020 would have been of 
assistance as these issues would have arisen in any case. 
There is clearly a dispute between Mrs H and RBS about the contact between Mrs H and 
RBS before the issue of the letter of August 2020. Mrs H describes unnecessary harassment 
as she was updating the bank, but the RBS file notes suggest that there was little 
engagement by Mrs H with RBS, and this prompted the action it took in August. I dont see 
from the file that Mrs H returned to RBS after March to say how she proposed dealing with 
the issue of the second charge and the reluctance of her ex-husband to transfer the equity to 
her. That seems to me to be a problem that lay with Mrs H to resolve which was unrelated to 
the pandemic and I cant see that there was any progress in the matter by August. So, I can 
understand why RBS would have contacted Mrs H at that point to stress the urgency of 
dealing with this problem.
I note in response to Mrs H advising our investigator that she  was often calling them and 
speaking with supervisors after the numerous calls  ,our investigator asked for information 
about the number she called and dates to assist her investigation. Mrs H hasnt provided us 
with any further evidence of her phone calls. I appreciate that her complaint is that RBS was 
harassing her but if there was evidence of Mrs H making calls and those not been recorded 
by RBS, it would have assisted us in testing the accuracy of RBSs record. So, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say that RBS harassed Mrs H and my view is that on balance 
RBS dealt with fairly with Mrs H following the ending of the term of her mortgage.
It seems that in addition to the debt being passed to its Recoveries department RBSs 
process is to close any linked accounts. Mrs H learned indirectly of this when she got a 
strange text to say that her address had been changed as advised by you and as a result 
contacted RBS and had difficulties accessing her accounts. RBS allowed Mrs Hs savings 
and bank account to continue but then started a process of disassociation creating a new 
customer number. But it meant that Mrs Hs online banking facility was temporarily 
suspended which prevented Mrs H making a payment to her daughter who was locked down 
at university. I note that RBS appears to have been following their process in such situations 
but failed to advise Mrs H of what it was doing and of the difficulty she would face. I agree 
with our investigator that the compensation paid by RBS of £150 is fair for the distress she 
would have suffered.
I am aware of how strongly Mrs H feels about this and Im glad that she has got a new 
mortgage sorted and retained her home. I can understand that she felt under pressure in 
August 2020 when she got the unwelcome letter from RBS but at that point matters had not 
moved on from the beginning of the year. Of course, there was a pandemic but some of the 
issues preventing progress were unrelated to the pandemic and I can understand why in the 
absence of these issues being addressed that RBS issued its letter. I accept that RBSs 
actions in disassociating the accounts without notice and the text must have been upsetting 
for Mrs H, but my view is that the £150 paid by RBS fairly compensates Mrs H for that. So, 
for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman