DRN-2178287
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MYJAR provided to Mr H in February 2018. The 
loan was for £1,500 and was repaid over 12 monthly instalments of £227.48
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and thought MYJARs checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr H disagreed and said MYJAR should have checked his credit report 
where it would have seen he had borrowing from other short-term lenders and historic 
defaults. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision so, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought MYJARs checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially and had other 
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts and historic defaults. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. 
It has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he was employed 
and had a monthly income of £4,000. MYJAR also checked Mr Hs normal monthly living 
costs. Mr H declared these as £1,532 per month. MYJAR says it also searched Mr Hs credit 
file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries 
like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken 
out. So, there wasnt anything in the information MYJAR gathered that ought to have 
prompted it to make further checks or verify what Mr H was telling it. 
Mr H has also provided a copy of his credit report and this shows he was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders as well as a lot of other borrowing. But some of this borrowing 
doesnt show on the credit report findings MYJAR has provided. This isnt unusual because 
the credit report MYJAR uses often shows different information from a personal credit report. 
This is because lenders are looking for specific information and not all the details included in 
a personal credit report. 
The monthly repayments showing on MYJARs report, for the other debt, added up to a 
small percentage of Mr Hs declared income, so I dont think there is enough to say that 
MYJAR should have carried out a more detailed review than it did on the basis of what it 
found in the credit report. 
As this was the first loan Mr H had borrowed from MYJAR, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with it. And even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided at the time which would 
have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied 
on what Mr H gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loan went 
far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr H declared to MYJAR at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about Mr H, 
I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr H gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR have done something wrong in lending Mr H these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr H, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman