DRN-4162187
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr K was a director of a company. The company acquired a sports utility vehicle.
For the year from late January 2021, Mr K took out an Aviva policy for the car. The 
policyholder was Mr K rather than his company. Mr Ks wife was a named driver. The cost of 
the policy was about £800.00, payable by instalments.
For the year from late January 2022, Mr K renewed the policy. The cost was about £860.00, 
payable by instalments.
In mid-May 2022, Mr K reported to Aviva that the car had suffered fire damage. Mr K made a 
claim on the policy.
In early September 2022, Aviva declined the claim. It treated the policy as void from January 
2021, saying that Mr K had made misrepresentations when he took out the policy.
In mid-November 2022, Mr K complained, through us, to Aviva that it should meet the claim. 
By a final response dated early January 2023, Aviva turned down the complaint.
Mr K asked us to investigate.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She referred to 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She thought 
that Aviva had acted fairly by voiding the policy. However, she thought it unfair that Aviva 
hadnt refunded Mr Ks premiums. She recommended that Aviva should do so.
Aviva agreed with the investigators opinion. It said it had refunded all premiums to Mr K.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIDRA imposes a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to an insurer when taking out or changing a policy.
From Avivas file, I find that  when he took out the policy- Aviva asked Mr K if he or his 
spouse was the registered keeper of the car. He answered in the affirmative.
But the V5 vehicle registration document showed that Mr Ks company was the registered 
keeper of the car. Mr K ought reasonably to have known that. So his answer was incorrect. I 
consider that he made a misrepresentation that was careless or worse. 
From Avivas file, I find that  when he took out the policy- Aviva asked Mr K if he or his 
spouse was the legal owner of the car. He answered in the affirmative.
But Mr K has told us that hed bought the car through his company and on finance. So Mr K 
ought reasonably to have known that his company or the finance company, rather than he or 
his spouse, was the legal owner of the car. So his answer was incorrect. I consider that he 
made another misrepresentation that was careless or worse.
Ive thought about whether the misrepresentations made any difference to Aviva. I accept its 
underwriting evidence that it wouldnt have issued a policy to Mr K if he hadnt incorrectly 
said he or his spouse was the registered keeper and legal owner. So I find that the 
misrepresentations made the difference between Aviva declining cover or offering it. I 
consider that Mr K made qualifying misrepresentations under CIDRA.
So CIDRA gave Aviva certain remedies including treating the policy as void from the start 
and declining any claim. I dont consider that Aviva treated Mr K unfairly by exercising those 
remedies.
However, Ive thought about whether the misrepresentations were careless or whether they 
were worse - reckless as to the truth or deliberate. Ive concluded that Mr K carelessly failed 
to distinguish between himself and his company. So I dont think he made the 
misrepresentations recklessly or deliberately.
CIDRA only gave Aviva the further remedy of retaining the premiums if the 
misrepresentations were reckless or deliberate. Ive found the misrepresentations were 
merely careless. So I dont consider that Aviva treated Mr K fairly by keeping the premium 
Mr K had paid for the year from January 2021 and whatever instalments hed paid towards 
the premium for the year from January 2022. (I find it likely that Mr K stopped paying 
instalments after about September 2022).
Putting things right
So Ive thought about directing Aviva to refund the amounts Mr K had paid in premium. Aviva 
accepted the investigators opinion and told us it had made the refund. Mr K hasnt 
confirmed or denied that.
Ive also thought about directing Aviva to pay interest on the amount of its refund. However, I 
consider that Mr Ks misrepresentations were responsible for bringing trouble on himself. 
Also, he will have had the benefit of a year of free insurance in 2021. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay him interest.
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva (insofar as it hasnt already done so) to 
refund Mr K the amount he paid it for insurance premiums for the years from January 2021 
and January 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited (insofar as it hasnt already done so) to refund Mr K the amount he paid it for insurance premiums for the years from January 2021 and January 
2022. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman