DRN-2737366
The complaint
Mr F complains because he was unable to contact TICORP Limited to add travel disruption 
extension (TDE) cover to his travel insurance policy.   
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and Ive referred to TICORP Limited as 
Staysure throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr F purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from Staysure in December
2019. Mr F paid an additional premium to purchase gadget cover and car hire excess waiver
cover at the same time.
On the afternoon of 12 March 2020, Mr F received an email from Staysure. The email said:
As an existing customer without Travel Disruption Extension cover, you can add this
to your current policy by registering and/or logging into your My Staysure Account
and adding the appropriate cover option to your policy...
As you may understand, were currently experiencing an unprecedented
demandso the best way toadd options to your existing policy is online.
Mr F says he unsuccessfully attempted to log into his My Staysure account multiple times in
order to add TDE cover, receiving an error message each time. Mr F says he also attempted
to contact Staysure by phone to purchase TDE cover but was unable to get through and
heard an automatic message saying Staysure was receiving high call volumes.
On the morning of 13 March 2020, Mr F emailed Staysure to say he was attempting to log
into his account to add TDE cover to his policy but was getting an error message. Staysure
responded to Mr F that evening to say it was experiencing high demand and asking if there
was there anything it could help Mr F with. Mr F replied later that night to say he was trying
to check if he had TDE cover on his policy and, if not, he wanted to add the cover on. Mr F
reiterated that every time he tried to log on to his Staysure account he received an error
message.
Mr F says he repeatedly tried to contact Staysure to add TDE cover over the following days.
Staysure emailed Mr F on 20 March 2020 to say its My Staysure portal had experienced
unprecedented demand but that it was now back up and running. However, Staysure said
the underwriter of TDE cover had decided to remove the cover as an optional extra from
11.59pm on 13 March 2020, so it wouldnt be able to offer the product to Mr F any longer.
Mr F had been due to depart on holiday on 20 March 2020, but he cancelled his trip due to
the change in travel advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
because of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr F received a refund for his flights
from his airline but said his accommodation and other costs, which hed paid for by bank
transfer, were non-refundable. Mr F made a claim for these costs with the underwriter of his
travel insurance policy, but this was declined as the reason for the claim wasnt listed as a
covered cancellation reason under the terms and conditions of the policy Mr F held.
Mr F complained to Staysure, saying hed tried to purchase the TDE cover offered to him on
12 March 2020 and his failure to make a successful purchase was because of issues with
Staysures online portal and telephone lines. Staysure reiterated that the underwriter of TDE
cover had withdrawn the product on 13 March 2020 and said Mr F had the option of adding
TDE when he bought the policy in December 2019, but he had chosen not to do so.
As Mr F remained unhappy, he brought a complaint about Staysure to the attention of our
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She considered Mr Fs complaint against
the underwriter of his policy. She said she didnt think Mr Fs holiday cancellation claim was
covered under the policy he held. Our investigator also said the underwriter was entitled to
withdraw TDE cover on 13 March 2020, and Mr F had the opportunity to buy this cover for
several months previously.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so his complaint was passed to me to
decide.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Fs complaint in February 2021. In it, I said:
Staysure is the business who sold Mr F his policy, and the business who emailed Mr F
offering him TDE cover. Staysure doesnt provide Mr Fs insurance  it is a separate and
distinct company to the one who underwrites Mr Fs policy. This means Staysure isnt
responsible for the decision to decline Mr Fs claim. But Mr F isnt complaining about the
decline of his claim, he is complaining about his inability to purchase TDE cover and I think
Staysure is the business responsible for Mr Fs complaint.
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business)
say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
FCA guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of
Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint, Ive
had regard to rules and guidance such as these.
In line with our remit, weve asked for information from other businesses which is relevant to
Mr Fs complaint. Weve been told by the administrator of Mr Fs policy that the underwriter
of TDE cover instructed sales of the product to stop on 11 March 2020, for implementation
on 12 March 2020. The administrator of the policy says the underwriter then subsequently
agreed with Staysure that TDE cover could be sold until 23.59 on 15 March 2020.
I understand Staysure says it was unable to predict that the product would be withdrawn so
soon after sending its email to Mr F. But, based on the information Ive seen, the underwriter
issued instructions stopping the sale of TDE cover going forward before Staysure sent the
initial email to Mr F on the afternoon of 12 March 2020. And, TDE cover would have been
available for Mr F to purchase up until 23.59 on 15 March 2020  not 13 March 2020 as 
Staysure has said.
As a result of Staysures email invitation, Mr F made a number of unsuccessful attempts to
purchase TDE cover during the period it was available for him to purchase. Mr F has
provided evidence to show he made repeated attempts to buy TDE cover, and I think itslikely hed have purchased the cover were it not for the issues he experienced with
Staysures online customer portal and telephone lines.
Ive considered what Staysure has said about TDE cover being available for Mr F to
purchase when he bought the policy in December 2019, as well as its comments about other
insurers withdrawing similar cover at an earlier point. I understand Mr F had the option to
purchase TDE cover when he initially bought the policy but chose not to do so. However,
Mr F was also entitled to attempt to take Staysure up on its offer in March 2020, having
received an invitation from Staysure to add travel disruption extension cover to his policy.
It seems Staysures email of 12 March 2020 prompted Mr F to try to buy TDE cover.
Presumably, the point of Staysures email was to encourage its customers to buy TDE cover
and Mr F was entitled to respond to Staysures email with an attempt to purchase what was
being offered. Based on the evidence Ive seen, TDE cover was available for purchase by
Staysures customers until 15 March 2020. Even if I accept that Mr F was unlikely to have
been able to secure similar cover elsewhere on the dates in question, I think Mr F has
evidenced he attempted to buy TDE cover at a time when it was available for sale but he
was unable to do so due to problems with Staysures online customer portal and telephone
lines. I also note that Staysure didnt respond to Mr Fs last email on 13 March 2020 in time
for him to add TDE to his policy before the extended date of 15 March 2020 agreed between
the underwriter and Staysure to stop sales of the cover.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the TDE cover and I think Mr Fs eventual claim
for his accommodation and other costs may have been covered by the underwriter had he
purchased the extension. However, Staysure had no obligation to provide Mr F with any
particular type of travel insurance cover, and it was down to Mr F to ensure he had a travel
insurance policy in place which met his needs. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable
to ask Staysure to cover Mr Fs unused holiday costs.
However, I think compensation is due to Mr F because of the impact of Staysures actions 
or inactions - on him. Staysure invited customers to add TDE as an additional policy option
at a time when the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was starting to be felt but then failed to
ensure it could meet customer demand. Im satisfied this caused Mr F frustration and
inconvenience. Staysure then went on to mishandle Mr Fs enquiries and gave him
misleading information about the date TDE cover was withdrawn from sale. I think it would
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Staysure to pay Mr F compensation in
recognition of what happened.
So, my provisional decision was that Staysure should pay Mr F £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Mr F responded to my provisional decision to say he felt Staysure should pay for the unused 
accommodation and other costs hed unsuccessfully claimed for, as he was prevented from 
buying TDE due to Staysures actions and his claim may have been successful if hed been 
able to purchase TDE. 
Staysure said my provisional findings that the underwriter of TDE had initially instructed 
sales of the cover to stop with effect from 12 March 2020 wasnt strictly correct. Staysure 
said my use of this date was misleading and that further clarification about what happened 
was due to be provided to our service from the underwriter of TDE cover. Staysure 
confirmed that TDE had remained available to purchase up to midnight on 15 March 2020. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I agree that Staysure made mistakes in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that Mr Fs inability to purchase insurance which may have provided cover for the 
circumstances he found himself in was solely Staysures responsibility.  
It was for Mr F to ensure he had adequate insurance cover which was suitable for his 
requirements, and Mr F had the opportunity to add TDE cover to his policy both at the time 
he bought the main travel insurance and in the months thereafter. Although Staysure sent an 
invitation to buy TDE to Mr F on 12 March 2020, there was no duty on the part of Staysure to 
sell TDE (or any other cover) to Mr F. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Staysure to pay for the costs Mr F unsuccessfully claimed for.
Staysure has disputed the date of 12 March 2020 set out in my provisional findings as the 
date on which the underwriter initially instructed sales of TDE to stop from. But Staysure 
hasnt provided any further explanation about what it believes is the correct timeline of 
events in this case, and I havent received any clarification from the underwriter about the 
dates involved. Based on the information which is available to me, Im satisfied its likely the 
underwriter instructed the sale of TDE to stop on 11 March 2020 for implementation on 12 
March 2020, and an extension was agreed for the sale of TDE by Staysure to continue until 
midnight on 15 March 2020. 
Even if I were to accept that the underwriter didnt initially instruct the sale of TDE to stop 
from 12 March 2020, this wouldnt change my decision that Staysures actions and/or 
inactions in this case caused Mr F distress and inconvenience. 
Staysure was unable to meet the demand on its telephone lines and online portal during the 
timeframe in question and Im satisfied this caused Mr F frustration and annoyance. In 
addition, Staysure told Mr F on several occasions that TDE wasnt available for purchase 
after 13 March 2020, which was incorrect and Staysure didnt reply to Mr Fs email on the 
night of 13 March 2020 until 20 March 2020, by which time it was too late for him to 
purchase the cover he was asking for.
So, overall, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
TICORP Limited needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint against TICORP Limited in part and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman