DRN-1812995
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor 
Finance that he electronically signed in February 2019. He complained to it in August 2019 
about two fault codes on the car and said that he'd also had to pay for new brake pads and 
tyres. 
The car was inspected by an independent expert in September 2019 and Specialist Motor 
Finance said that there was no evidence to suggest that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr B or that it was unfit for purpose. He wasnt satisfied with its 
response so he arranged for the car to be inspected by a transmission specialist and he 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
hadn't seen evidence to persuade him that there was a fault with the car at the point of 
supply and he thought that it was more likely that the issues had developed whilst the car 
was in Mr B's possession - so he was unable to say that the car wasn't of satisfactory 
quality. He said that he couldn't recommend that Specialist Motor Finance should pay for 
any repairs to the car or take any other action in response to Mr B's complaint.
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
the investigator's recommendations in detail and has described the financial and other 
difficulties with which he's had to deal. He's also referred to adverse reviews about Specialist 
Motor Finance. He says, in summary, that the inspection report from the transmission 
specialist should be relied on and it says that the transmission has been contaminated and 
the solenoids are failing due to rusting on the parts which must have been present for a 
while. He also says that the car's clutch is now slipping.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Specialist Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to him was about four years 
old, had been driven for approximately 98,000 miles and had a price of £19,150. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car must be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. There doesn't seem to be any dispute that there's an issue with the car's gears. The car was 
supplied to Mr B in February 2019 and he complained to Specialist Motor Finance about two 
fault codes - one of which related to the clutch - in August 2019. It arranged for the car to 
be inspected by an independent expert the following month. The car's mileage was recorded 
in the report as being 108,293 miles.
The report said:
"The vehicle's diagnostic system was checked for faults, there were 2 similar codes 
found ...  These defect codes were checked and found to relate to the pressure control 
solenoid. This would undoubtedly cause the reported symptoms of inconsistent gear 
changes in forward and reverse gears. The engineer decided not to road test the 
vehicle to prevent the possibility of further damage. Driving the vehicle could induce 
further damage ie clutch slippage resulting in consequential clutch wear. 
Undoubtedly the vehicles physical condition is good for a vehicle that has covered 
well over 100,000 miles. It would appear that the vehicle has covered some 10,000 
miles ... since the date of purchase, this in conjunction with the vehicles overall 
physical condition leads us to the conclusion that the vehicle was road legal and fit for 
purpose at the point of sale. The vehicle could not have been driven 10,000 miles in its 
current condition without consequential transmission damage occurring.
The owner stated [at] the time of inspection that the transmission performed as 
expected until approximately 3 weeks before the inspection date. Taking into account 
the vehicle owners verbal comments, the vehicle symptoms would have been easily 
noticeable during the pre-purchase road test at the point of sale, even to a layperson 
without any mechanical knowledge The warning light on the drivers information panel 
would have alerted them that there was an impending problem hence the reason we 
believe that the current issues have developed after the point of purchase.
The cause of the current symptoms in our opinion would be progressive age-related 
general wear and tear rather than a failure or material defect ... we conclude that the 
vehicle was fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of purchase".
Mr B has raised concerns about the independence of the independent expert. The expert's 
report includes a "statement of truth" and the report has been provided by a company that it  
is widely regarded for providing independent inspection reports about cars and other 
vehicles. I'm not persuaded that it's unreasonable to treat the expert's report as being 
independent. 
Mr B also say that the independent expert didn't strip the gearbox down. But I don't consider 
that it was necessary or appropriate in these circumstances for the gearbox to be stripped 
down for the independent expert to assess the fault with the car and to provide his report.
Mr B arranged for the car to be repaired by a transmission specialist in December 2019 and 
the cost of the repair was £957.23. The transmission specialist provided a report in January 
2020 which said:
"When the valve body was removed [in December 2019] there was evidence of rust on 
the solenoids  which indicates at some time the transmission has been 
contaminated with water, poss oil cooler, leaking which has been changed, the 
solenoid was changed and all was working ok. But now the 4th solenoid has failed so I 
recommend that all the solenoids are changed and a full strip and inspection of the 
transmission. Due to the rusting on the parts it must have been present for a while. I have read the 
report and I wonder how they could come to the conclusion without inspecting the 
transmissions or even checking the oil and just doing a code read and how could the 
transmission be inspected for leaks when it is fitted with a under cover. Would it not 
have been better to have the mechatronic removed then they could come and 
investigate properly".
The two reports give very different explanations of when the fault would have been 
developing. The transmission specialist says that the "the rusting must have been present 
for a while" but the independent expert says that the car would have been "fit for purpose 
and of satisfactory quality" when it was supplied to Mr B.
The car was supplied to Mr B in February 2019 and it was about four years old and had 
been driven for approximately 98,000 miles. He was able to use it for about six months 
before the issues with the fault codes started and in that time the car was driven for about 
10,000 miles. If the fault with the car's gears had been present when the car was supplied to 
him, I consider that he wouldn't have been able to drive 10,000 miles in it and that the fault 
codes would have been identified sooner than they were. 
Mr B has referred to adverse reviews about Specialist Motor Finance and he clearly feels 
very strongly that the fault with the car was present or developing when the car was supplied 
to him. But the reviews relate to other customer's experiences with Specialist Motor Finance 
and don't show whether or not the car that was supplied to him was of satisfactory quality.
Having considered in detail both of the reports about the car and all of the other information 
that Mr B has provided, I'm not persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that there 
was a fault with the car's gears when the car was supplied to him in February 2019. I 
consider it to be more likely than not that, at that time, the car was of satisfactory quality for a 
car that was about four years old and which had been driven for approximately 98,000 miles 
- and that the fault with the car's gears has developed since the car was supplied to Mr B.
I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that he's had with the car and for the repair costs that 
he's already incurred and for the additional costs that he may now have to incur - and also 
for the financial and other difficulties that he's described. But I find that it wouldn't be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Specialist Motor Finance to allow Mr B 
to reject the car, to reimburse him for any repairs or to pay for any future repairs, to pay him 
any other compensation - or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I don't uphold Mr B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman