DRN-4236341
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Futures Assured Limited 
(FAL) to transfer his existing pension plans into a new plan with another provider. Hes also 
complained about how the adviser was able to approach him knowing the details of his 
existing plans and why he wasnt advised that the adviser had recently retired  and given 
the details of his new adviser.
What happened
In 2014 FAL contacted Mr M to discuss his retirement provision. Mr M says he doesnt know 
how the adviser from FAL obtained his details. At the time Mr M held two pensions with 
different providers both invested into with-profit (WP) funds. One was an appropriate 
personal pension which had received national insurance contributions instead of them going 
towards the state earnings related pension scheme, the other was a personal pension into 
which Mr M made monthly net contributions of £78.63. 
Following a meeting with the adviser a recommendation was made to transfer a total of 
£83,423.28 to a new personal pension plan with another provider, and to make a regular net 
monthly contribution of £100. The money was to be invested into an equity based balanced 
portfolio. The transfer completed in November 2014 although the funds were held in cash 
and not invested until early 2015.
In June 2022 Mr M discovered that the value of his plan had fallen by around 25%. He then 
complained to FAL. He said he didnt understand how its adviser had managed to find out 
that he had two pensions in 2014. He also said that he should have been made aware that 
the adviser had retired and who his new adviser/point of contact was instead. But his main 
complaint was that, as he told FAL he was a low risk investor in 2014, he thought hed now 
be in a better financial position had he not transferred his pension plans in 2014.
FAL didnt uphold the complaint making the following points in support of its decision:
The adviser obtained Mr Ms details from a lead generation company.
The adviser was only able to obtain details of Mr Ms two pensions after Mr M signed 
a letter of authority for him.
Mr M had indicated he didnt require an ongoing face to face service  only ad-hoc 
contact. This was confirmed through a service agreement. The adviser had 
confirmed he also contacted Mr M each year but a face to face review was always 
declined. Since the adviser retired a new adviser would only have been assigned to 
Mr M if he wanted further one off advice. 
Mr M had been confirmed as medium risk investor following completion of an 
investment risk profiler. His funds were invested in line with this attitude to risk (ATR). 
In addition Mr M was sent numerous emails about proposed changes to his 
investment strategy but he chose not to respond. Therefore his portfolio remained 
non reviewed.
But Mr M remained unhappy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld, 
making the following points in support of his assessment:
Looking at the regulators checklist for pension switching from 2009, he didnt think 
FAL had met the four key issues that were highlighted.
Mr M wasnt an experienced investor and only had a low capacity for loss  based on 
his circumstances at the time.
He accepted the moderate risk profile that FAL determined for Mr M given the term to 
his retirement.
But the information Mr M was provided with to compare performances wasnt 
reasonable. It was based on future potential returns but compared with bonus rates 
and not fund performance. He didnt think therefore that Mr M was put into an 
informed position.
He thought Mr Ms needs could probably have been met by other funds offered by his 
existing pension providers. FAL itself had stated that Mr M wouldnt be better off by 
transferring based on charges alone  which he agreed seemed to be the case. 
He didnt think that fund performance itself was a compelling reason to transfer the 
pensions to more expensive plans. 
FAL didnt accept the outcome and made the following points in response:
It calculated that Mr Ms pension equated to less than 30 % of his overall retirement 
income requirements. It didnt agree with the investigators conclusion that the 
pension represented a large part of his retirement planning. It also believed that with 
the additional monthly contributions it had recommended the final pension fund ought 
to provide the income shortfall Mr M required.
It thought Mr M had a reasonable capacity for loss given he had 22 years left to 
retirement. It maintained the balanced risk profile it identified was appropriate.
It didnt accept the criticism of it comparing bonus rates instead of fund performance, 
because the main plan Mr M held was invested into a traditional (not unitised) WP 
fund which only offered bonus rates as a comparison. It accepted this position wasnt 
the same with the other plan but only provided the information about bonus rates to 
demonstrate how the fund had grown over the past years.
It didnt agree Mr M wasnt put into an informed position as it thought it had tried to 
provide information that was clear and concise.
It didnt agree with the investigator about a number of points he raised which 
suggested Mr M wasnt made aware of the correct information.
It didnt agree that the existing WP funds had a balanced or moderate risk profile. 
The investigators suggestion of combining the pensions and switching to more 
appropriate funds contradicted his view of the advisers (unsuitable) 
recommendation. It thought it was more appropriate to combine the existing pensions 
and then to transfer them to a plan that offered greater fund choice and greater 
flexibility as well as the potential for greater returns. 
However, it had carried out the calculation as set out by the investigator and had 
worked out that Mr M was £3,952.25 better off as a result of the transfer  so it 
thought the investigator should revise his assessment.  
The investigator said:
He thought, based on its use of a gross income instead of net, that FALs analysis of 
Mr Ms income and expenditure was flawed. 
He thought it was appropriate to base the recommendation on a moderate ATR. He 
believed WP funds were within that risk category.The critical yield calculation FAL used showed that the new plan would need to 
outperform the existing plan by 0.4% just to match what was being given up. So 
unless Mr M had other reasons to pay higher charges and take additional risks he 
ought to have remained where he was.
There was no suggestion that Mr M had raised any concerns about the performance 
of his existing funds. He simply accepted FALs offer of a review and was entitled to 
receive advice which was in his best interest. He thought the reasons given for 
transferring were, in the main generic, and not necessarily justified. 
His view had been that Mr M ought to have remained invested within his existing 
plans. But he had tried to explain that if the adviser thought that Mr M ought to 
reconsider the funds he was invested in, then a good starting point would have been 
to discount the other risk appropriate funds available through the existing providers. 
He asked FAL to provide a breakdown of how it arrived at its figures showing Mr M 
hadnt suffered a financial loss following the transfer.
FAL provided some documents and figures to support its position. It wanted to know if Mr M 
was now happy to withdraw his complaint. Mr M said he wasnt and so, as no resolution 
could be found  particularly because there were some concerns about the monthly 
contributions Mr M had made to the new plan, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman 
and has been passed to me to review. 
 
As of 26 July 2022, Mr Ms plan was valued at £113,305.16
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree largely with the outcome reached by the investigator. I think FAL 
needs to carry out a calculation to see if Mr M has suffered a financial loss as a result of its 
advice to transfer his two personal pensions into a new plan in 2014. Ill set out the redress 
methodology below. But first Ill set out the reasons for reaching my decision.
In reaching my conclusion Ive carefully considered what the regulator said about the quality 
of advice on pension switching in its thematic review from December 2008. The review had 
been published before FAL gave its advice so the conclusions that had been drawn and 
recommendations made were widely available at the time. And the outcomes remain as 
relevant today as they did at that time. The review set out the regulators approach to 
assessing the suitability of a firms advice to switching existing pensions into new personal 
pensions and self-invested personal pensions. It said: 
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching into
one of the following:
 A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment flexibility, 
but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but there was no 
evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown 
option, but there was no evidence that this option was needed).
 A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder pension 
would have met the customers needs.
 A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but where 
the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.
 A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding pension (for example, 
guaranteed annuity rates) without these being explained or justified.
 A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal circumstances. A pension where there was the need for ongoing advice, but this had not been
explained, or offered, or put in place.
So I need to look at each of these findings to see if there were any of the unsuitable 
outcomes that tied in with FALs recommendation. As a guide Ive taken into account FALs 
justification behind the recommendation to switch, which was confirmed overall as a new 
arrangement with an extensive fund range and access to external funds.
In the suitability report more detail was given around these reasons such as:
Larger fund choices.
The potential for better fund performance.
The possibility of switching to income drawdown in the future.
No penalties for transferring.
The possible loss or decrease of the existing with profit final bonus  which 
accounted for over 40% of one existing pensions growth.
So Ive looked these reasons to determine the extent to which they supported the 
recommendation to transfer.
Larger fund choices
I note that FAL promoted the extensive fund range that the new pension appeared to offer. I 
can see it recommended a balanced equity based portfolio which  by its very nature, 
comprised a number of funds which might then be rebalanced over time to maintain the 
appropriate risk profile of the portfolio. I note that initially Mr M was invested across 12 funds 
plus a cash fund to cover the fees. But I also note that, using FALs own research analysis, 
one of the existing pension plan providers offered 40 internal, 84 external, and 10 multi 
manager funds at the time. While the other provider said consumers can invest in a wide 
range of unit-linked funds from different fund managers.
So I dont think the evidence supports the idea that transferring gave Mr M access to a larger 
number of funds. Given that he was invested across 12 different funds Im satisfied that the 
other providers offered a similar variety of choices, and those choices covered the full range 
of ATR profiles including a number which were in line with Mr Ms moderate ATR. I dont 
think the evidence supports the idea that Mr M either had access to, or indeed even needed, 
a larger number of funds available to him on transferring.
Potential for better fund performance
The best way to give some idea of future fund performance is to use historical investment 
performance and data. But of course, its important to be mindful of the warning that past 
performance is no guarantee of future results". 
The comparison of funds that FAL undertook to try to show better fund performance wasnt, 
in my view, appropriate. By its own admission FAL used the bonus rates from a WP fund 
from one of the other providers to compare against the new portfolio it had recommended. 
I dont think it was fair to make such a comparison as, not only is it unclear that the risk 
profile was the same, but the bonus rates returns are declared after the process of 
smoothing WP funds to demonstrate a longer term outlook designed to avoid peaks and 
troughs. Whereas the investment linked portfolio would simply have reflected the value of 
the funds, in terms of annual returns, on any particular day  without taking into account any 
significant falls or increases. I know FAL has said that it was only able to compare bonus rates against investment performance because that was all the information that was 
available, but I dont think that put Mr M in the informed position that it ought to have done. 
I think FAL needed to provide Mr M with a full explanation of how WP funds worked against 
investment backed funds and portfolios. This would have allowed Mr M to look at the past 
performance of both types of funds and given him the necessary understanding to determine 
what would have been in his best interest going forward. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mr M was previously disappointed or concerned about the performance of his 
existing funds  so I think FAL needed to be much clearer and concise in making Mr M 
aware of what he was given up in favour of the new portfolio. 
Thereafter the idea of a comparison of alternative funds offered by the existing provider 
which was supposed to match the risk profile of the new fund was, in FALs own words a 
fund that best matches your attitude to risk that is available. This supports the idea that it 
wasnt possible to compare the past performance between an existing fund and a new 
portfolio.
In my view FAL needed to provide Mr M with an illustration of benefits from all the schemes 
based on the same retirement age and including the same regular contribution it 
recommended that Mr M paid into his new plan. This needed to be carried out using the 
regulators assumed growth rates of the time and this would have given Mr M the best guide 
of what he could expect, using various rates of return, at retirement. It would then have been 
for Mr M to use the historical date available to decide which rates of growth he wanted to use 
to determine what he thought might happen in the future. FAL could have supplied that 
information as indeed it tried to do during its advice process in 2014, but Im not persuaded 
that the information made Mr M sufficiently aware of the real potential for better fund 
performance with his new plan.
Switching to income drawdown in the future
The option of switching to a drawdown plan would have been a good benefit for Mr M at 
some point in the future. But at the time of the advice he was 45 years old  some 10 years 
away from the earliest possible date he could have drawn his pension benefits. And I note 
that FAL extended the theoretical retirement date of the new contract to age 67  which 
would suggest it didnt expect Mr M to draw his benefits for around 22 years. So, while at 
some point I think this option may have been used as a reason to consider transferring,
Mr M didnt need to consider that option for at least 10 years  so it wouldnt be fair to 
consider it as a justification to transfer in 2014.
No transfer penalties or the possible loss of accrued final bonus
Although it was beneficial for Mr M not to have to pay any penalties to transfer I dont think it 
constituted a good enough to transfer on its own. I think Mr M would have expected not to 
have to pay any penalties or market value adjustments as part of the recommendation and I 
think its more likely than not that the inclusion of any additional costs such as penalties 
would have made the advice to transfer unsuitable in any case.
  
FAL said that by transferring his plans Mr M was in effect crystallising the final bonuses 
that he had earned on his existing pension plans. 
It said this meant he was no longer at risk of losing that value. And its correct to say that the 
value of those bonuses couldnt be guaranteed until the normal retirement age of the plans 
when Mr M would draw his benefits. But theres no evidence to suggest the bonuses were 
at risk or in danger of falling significantly at that point. I think its likely that the same 
investment factors which might affect the bonus rates in the future would probably have the 
same effect on Mr Ms new investment linked portfolio. So, looking at the reasons that FAL gave to justify the transfer, Im not persuaded that they 
were sufficiently compelling to show it was in Mr Ms best interest. But thats not to suggest 
the transfer was unsuitable  simply not necessary at that point. So Ive gone back to the 
original question of suitability as set out in the regulators thematic review. 
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason 
Ive looked carefully at the suitability report that FAL issued to Mr M in 2014. And in respect 
of the charges involved it noted that there was an initial charge of 5.1% (£4,254.58) for 
carrying out the transfer as well as a 0.5% ongoing charge  but only if a further review 
was carried out. This was because Mr M chose an ad-hoc service going forward that 
wouldnt involve automatic regular reviews.
FAL went on to set out a comparison of charges. It noted that age 67 there was a total 
shortfall of £9,754 between the fund values of the existing pensions when compared to the 
new pension  using various assumed growth rates. This was just under 12% of the 
transferred amount and would have require continued improved investment performance to 
make up for those charges. And when the investment horizon might only potentially have 
been around 10 years, I think its difficult to conclude that Mr M would have been financially 
better off following the transfer. 
The regulators findings suggested that it regarded switches where pension costs were 
higher going forward as being unsuitable where the reason for the switch was for 
investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, 
but there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that this option was needed. Im 
not satisfied theres sufficient evidence to support the idea that the new scheme was likely to 
be better (fund performance) or that a drawdown option was needed  so I think those would 
be regarded as examples of practices which wouldnt justify the transfer as being in Mr Ms 
best interest and would make it unsuitable.
 
Mr Ms ATR 
The risk profiler that was used to define Mr Ms ATR confirmed that he had no experience of 
investing and no understanding of investment markets. His risk profile was agreed as being 
five out of a total score of eight. The definition of this moderate ATR said, your earning 
capacity is such that you can absorb this riskyou are prepared to invest for the longer term 
and do not necessarily require access to your money in the medium term. The risk was 
determined as Mr M accepting a moderate loss of his money.
 
Looking at Mr Ms situation I dont regard this as being an inaccurate assessment of his ATR 
 especially considering his age and the likely investment horizon. But as Mr M was already 
invested in what I would regard as moderate risk rated investments I dont this gave much 
potential for the new investment portfolio to improve on fund performance  given the risk 
profile of both existing and recommended funds. 
I think FAL probably defined Mr Ms ATR reasonably correctly given his situation, but at the 
same time I think there were a number of existing funds that the previous providers offered 
which may have been equally appropriate, if FAL thought that Mr Ms investment strategy 
needed refining in line with the ATR it established.
I think that Mr Ms existing investments were appropriate and broadly in line with his ATR  
so Im not suggesting that FAL ought to have switched him to new funds within his existing plans. But if FAL wanted to review Mr Ms retirement planning I would have expected to see 
a more robust comparison of the alternative funds available within his existing plans range 
against the new recommended portfolio as a starting point of any discussion. 
The lost pension benefits and the need for ongoing advice  
The other two reasons the regulator gave for advice being unsuitable were where a 
recommendation was made that led to the loss of guarantees or other benefits upon 
transferring. And where ongoing advice was an important part of a new pension plan and its 
strategy, but this advice wasnt included or explained. But theres no evidence to support the 
idea of any guarantees being lost following FALs recommendation here or that it didnt offer 
ongoing advice. Indeed it did offer a regular ongoing advice service which Mr M declined to 
accept. 
Summary and conclusion
So Ive carefully considered the reasons that FAL gave to justify its recommendation for 
Mr M to transfer his existing pensions. Ive then gone on to look at the outcomes the 
regulator considered when it set out its guidance around advice for switching pensions in its 
thematic review of 2008.
And Im not persuaded that FALs reasons for the recommendation are compelling enough. I 
think the reasons are largely generic and I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support 
the idea the transfer was suitable for Mr Ms own individual needs. I think, if FAL thought any 
switch of funds was warranted, Mr Ms needs could have broadly been met by the 
alternatives offered by his existing pension providers  although I dont think he needed to 
switch funds at all based on the reasons Ive set out above. Mr M didnt ask for FALs advice 
because he was disappointed with his pensions performance, or because he wanted to get 
away from his existing providers, and it was simply because FAL, as the professional adviser 
here, put forward its recommendation that he agreed to go ahead. 
But I dont think Mr M was provided with sufficient information to demonstrate that the 
transfer was in his interests or that he was put into a fully informed position. Had he been 
provided with all the information he needed, and in a form that I think it should have been 
presented in, its more likely than not he would have remained where he was.
 
In addition I think the recommendation was also unsuitable because it contravened one of 
the regulators examples of unsuitable practice, namely the recommendation for Mr M to 
switch into a higher charging plan without sufficient justification for why that would be 
appropriate. FALs own suitability report stated that by switching to the new recommended 
pension provider you will not benefit from an overall reduction in charges. Therefore based 
on charges only, you would be better off retaining your pension with your existing provider.
In my view the main reason for Mr M to consider switching would have been if it was in his 
best interest financially. I dont think the other reasons given would have been as important 
to him going forward. 
I know FAL says that it demonstrated Mr M would potentially benefit from greater fund 
performance within the new plan  but Im not persuaded that information was clear to Mr M 
and I dont think the basis on which the comparison was carried out or the figures that were 
used were entirely appropriate in the circumstances.  
I know Mr M raised other concerns in his complaint about how the original adviser obtained 
his existing pension details and why he wasnt made aware of his new adviser when the 
other adviser retired. But Im satisfied that FALs explanation of how its adviser used his own lead generation source and that because Mr M didnt want an ongoing advice service he 
wouldnt have had a new adviser assigned, is fair and reasonable and doesnt warrant any 
further investigation or comment from me.
FALs offer and calculation
 
Although it didnt agree with the investigators assessment and made a number of points in 
response, FAL did also undertake a loss assessment to try to determine whether Mr M had 
actually suffered a financial loss following the transfer. It wanted Mr M to withdraw his 
complaint as a result of showing that he had in fact made a financial gain.
To support its calculation FAL provided copies of the bonus rates that the previous providers 
had declared in the ensuing years. It then used these to bring the notional values of those 
plans up to date. It then compared these figures with the up to date value of the new pension 
plan. 
Mr M wasnt persuaded to accept the calculation or withdraw his complaint, so Ive 
considered FALs calculation and supporting evidence carefully. But I think FAL needs to 
carry out another calculation based on the methodology Ive set out below. I say that for two 
reasons. 
Firstly Im not persuaded that the method FAL has used would provide the most accurate 
notional value of the previous plans. I would normally expect to see that calculation broken 
down and set out in a different way and therefore Im unable to confirm its accuracy. In my 
experience it would be better to approach the previous providers to obtain the notional 
figures as it would be much easier for them to access the correct information. Mr M might 
need to complete a letter of authority so that FAL can approach the providers or alternatively 
we can help by approaching them for the required figures.
But Im also not persuaded that the notional calculation that FAL carried out included 
provision for the regular contributions that were made to the new plan. I know the 
investigator included a paragraph within his assessment that accounted for capital additions, 
but I want to make it clear that the notional value that should be requested from the previous 
provider of the plan that was receiving regular monthly contributions, should include the 
£100 net payments that Mr M made to the new plan. I would expect to see evidence of those 
contributions included within the calculation.
So FAL should carry out a loss assessment along the lines of the methodology Ive set out 
below. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have remained with his previous providers, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account 
and given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must FAL do?To compensate Mr M fairly, FAL must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's pension plan with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
FAL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
FAL should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If FAL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FAL deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. FAL should give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
New SIPP Still exists and 
liquidNotional value 
of personal 
pensions from 
the previous 
providers. The 
£100 net 
monthly Date of transfer Date of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business contribution 
that Mr M has 
paid into the 
SIPP also 
needs to be 
included in the 
notional figure 
of the previous 
pension that 
accepted 
personal 
contributions receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr M's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. FAL should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the New SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the New SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if FAL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, FAL will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr M's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ms complaint. My decision is that Futures 
Assured Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Futures Assured Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman