DRN-3298124
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a claim he made under the legal expenses section of his Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) loss and damage protection for motor vehicles 
insurance policy.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers or agents.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a motor incident in September 2017, following which he made a claim 
on his RSA policy.  Mr P says that when he contacted RSA he told them he wanted to claim 
for personal injury and financial losses. RSA didnt however instruct solicitors to act for him 
in respect of this until 2019. Mr P is unhappy that it took RSA so long to do this. He says he 
thought matters were put in hand by RSA when he first reported things in September 2017.
RSA considered things and accepted they should have referred Mr Ps claim for personal 
injury and financial losses to solicitors back in September 2017. As a result they offered Mr P 
£75 to compensate him for their error. Mr R wasnt happy with this so referred the matter to 
this Service.
Our investigator considered things and agreed that RSA should have referred the claim to a 
solicitor about two years before it did. She said that the figure of £150 was more appropriate 
to compensate Mr P for the error. RSA have accepted the investigators findings but Mr P 
doesnt agree. In relation to this specific complaint he says:
He contacted RSA several times on the day of the incident and for the first six months 
following it where he talked about his personal injury claim;
RSA didnt care about his injuries and losses, handle his claim promptly or act 
professionally;
He feels he did discuss his personal injury claim with RSA on more than one occasion- 
specifically in January 2018 when he was told RSA were dealing with his claim. 
He discussed his personal injury claim again when RSA telephoned him at a later date to 
tell him he wasnt permitted to drive his car and that he wasnt insured. He was told his 
claim was being dealt with.
RSA is responsible for his injuries and financial losses because he hasnt received an 
acceptable outcome on his claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Mr Ps claim should be upheld for the same reasons set out by 
the investigator and accepted by RSA. I also think the figure of £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused to Mr P is adequate compensation. 
I appreciate there are a number of other things Mr P is unhappy about with RSA but for the 
avoidance of doubt, Im only considering RSAs error in this specific complaint and the 
compensation applicable to it. Because of this I wont be commenting on anything that might 
have take place outside the specific circumstances of this complaint between Mr P and RSA.
Its not in dispute that RSA failed to further Mr Ps claim for personal injury and financial 
losses when he registered his claim with them. RSA accept the position and the evidence 
Ive seen in the form of RSAs own notes record that the claim involved injury. This accords 
with Mr Ps recollection of his initial call with them. So, its clear something went wrong when 
RSA failed to further Mr Ps claim. 
What is less clear is why the claim wasnt furthered until September 2019. RSA say that Mr 
P didnt contact them about this error until then, whilst Mr P says he discussed the issue with 
RSA on a number of occasions and was told the claim was in hand. 
The physical evidence I have seen doesnt support what Mr P has said. There arent any call 
notes or records that suggest any conversations took place about the personal injury claim 
and although Mr P has made references to calls, he hasnt provided any dates and times the 
investigator could go back to RSA with. In the absence of anything that supports what Mr P 
says, Im not persuaded that he did specifically chase RSA for an update on his personal 
injury claim. I say so because he wouldnt have received anything from the solicitors that 
were eventually instructed to act for him so I think its unlikely he would have simply 
accepted the claim was being made on his behalf without his involvement. What I think is 
more likely is that Mr P might have mentioned his injuries when talking to RSA about his 
motor insurance claim, such that RSA should have picked up on the fact the claim hadnt 
been progressed, but not that he specifically chased them for the status of his personal 
injury claim.
I appreciate that the delay in the claim being progressed when it should have been would 
have been stressful for Mr P and that this represented poor service on RSAs part. But I also 
think the offer of £150 adequately compensates him for this. As the investigator said, Mr P 
could have chased the team dealing with his personal injury claim directly before September 
2019. 
I know Mr P wants RSA to compensate him for the physical losses he suffered as a result of 
the incident, but RSA isnt responsible for these. Rather theyre responsible for failing to refer 
his claim for these losses to a panel firm when asked to do so in 2017. I havent seen 
anything to support that this specific delay has caused Mr P any further loss in the form of 
detriment to his underlying claim or that the delay resulted in an outcome that wouldnt 
otherwise have happened had the claim been passed to solicitors at the right time. Because 
of this I think the correct remedy is to compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset caused to 
him as suggested by the investigator. This is in line with the types of compensation awards 
we make in similar circumstances to those that Mr P finds himself in.   
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mr P 
£150 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused in failing to progress his personal 
injury claim when registered. My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited direct them to 
comply with my award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman