DRN-3040779
The complaint
Miss B complains U K Insurance unfairly cancelled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019 Miss B took out a UKI motor insurance policy. UKI says she was told when 
arranging the policy that she needed to provide proof of her no claims discount (NCD). 
Miss B provided relevant documentation in late December 2019. That was a letter from a 
previous insurer. However, UKI wasnt satisfied with the information it provided. It asked her 
to provide further information. Miss B says she did that via UKIs online portal on 6 January 
2020. But UKI cancelled her policy on 16 January as it says it didnt receive the required 
information. Miss B then took out a new UKI policy at a higher cost.   
Miss B feels the cancellation was unfair. She says she did provide UKI with the required 
information, via its online portal, more than a week before the policy was cancelled. She 
feels the policy was cancelled unfairly. Shes unhappy that she had to pay more for a new 
policy she took out with UKI. She feels its unfair that she may have to declare the 
cancellation to future insurers.  
Miss B complained to UKI but it didnt accept it had done anything wrong. Our investigator 
said she understood why UKI had cancelled the policy  as it thought Miss B hadnt provided 
the requested information. But she was of the opinion that the most likely reason for this was 
a fault UKIs portal system, rather than any failure by Miss B. She felt UKI treated Miss B  
unfairly by not reinstating the cover when after she explained she had submitted the 
documentation via the portal. 
To put things right the investigator recommended UKI remove any record of it cancelling the 
policy. She also said it should reimburse Miss B any extra she had to pay to take out new 
cover. UKI didnt agree to that. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision. As it forms part of this final decision, Ive 
copied it in below. In summary, I set out why I intended to come to a different outcome to the 
investigator. I said I wasnt planning on requiring UKI to amend any records or reimburse 
Miss B any premiums. I also invited her and UKI to provide any further information they 
would like me to consider before I issued a further decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
require UKI to pay Miss B anything or to amend any records.
Miss Bs policy terms says UKI can cancel her cover, with seven days-notice, where 
there is a valid reason for doing so. One of the listed reasons is a failure to provide 
documentation that substantially affects its ability to deal with her policy. I generally 
think its reasonable for an insurer to cancel a policy for a failure to provide 
documentation requested to validate a policy. But usually only as long the business 
allows the policyholder reasonable opportunity to provide it  and notifies them of the 
cancellation through more than one means of communication. 
In this case Miss B was provided with more than two weeks, following the rejection of 
the original document, to provide what was required. Im satisfied she was given 
similar notification of cancellation, by both text and letter, in the event she didnt 
provide the required information. I accept she says she didnt receive the letter until 
the day of the cancellation. But even if that was the case she did receive the text. 
I think its most likely UKI didnt receive the requested document by the deadline it 
set. Ive discussed this further below. So on the face of it the decision to cancel the 
policy seems fair. Essentially our investigator came to a similar position on that. 
However, she felt, as the non-receipt of the NCD proof was most likely the result of a 
failure of its own portal, UKI should have reinstated Miss Bs policy when she called 
up the day after the cancellation.  
In response UKI didnt accept Miss B did attempt to submit the document through the 
portal as she claimed. Having considered the matter I dont think thats an 
unreasonable conclusion for it to come to. It said theres nothing, such as a 
confirmation email or system record, to show she did. It says she had a pattern of not 
responding to its letters. To illustrate this it explained she didnt submit the original 
unacceptable NCD proof until late December 2019. That was despite being told when 
arranging the policy that she needed to  and being in possession of the original 
proof since October of that year. 
UKIs also highlighted inconsistencies in her account during two phone calls on 17 
January 2020. That was the day after the policy cancellation. In the first call Miss B 
asks for an update on her policy. She said she had provided the NCD information 
through the portal on the 6 January 2020. She was then told the cover had been 
cancelled as that information hadnt been received. 
During this call she said she hadnt heard anything from UKI since its letter on 1 
January 2020. That letter explained she needed to submit further NCD proof. But in 
the second call, only a few hours later she says the day before she had received 
UKIs letter dated 4 January 2020. That letter explained if the NCD proof wasnt 
provided the policy would be cancelled on 16 January 2020. UKIs also pointed out 
that in a call four days later Miss B accepted she had received the text, warning of 
cancellation, sent on 3 January 2020. 
I accept its possible Miss B did try to submit the information as she said  and that 
UKIs portal system was at fault for what happened. But having listened to the calls 
and considered everything provided I dont find her account the most persuasive. So 
I cant fairly say UKI acted unreasonably by cancelling her policy or not reinstating it. 
That means I dont intend to require it to amend any records or pay Miss B anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI didnt have anything further for me to consider. Miss B asked why I hadnt referred to a 
certain call between her and UKI. She says in it UKI confirmed it had received the NCD 
document through its portal on 6 January 2020. She says UKI also admitted there had been 
a problem with its system. I was unaware of the call Miss B referred to. I asked UKI if it could provide a recording. In 
response it said it had no record of the call. It provided screen shots of its system to show it 
had searched, during the relevant dates, for any calls taking place involving a phone number 
provided by Miss B. She was unable to provide any phone records to show the call had 
taken place.
Ive already explained to Miss B that, unfortunately, there isnt much to support what she 
says about this call. Overall I cant say its most likely UKI did say it had received the 
document through the portal  or accept its system was at fault. 
Ive listened to calls between Miss B and UKI around the time the call was initially said to 
have taken place  including one that took place at a later date.  Theres no discussion of 
UKI having accepted it received the documents  or that its system was at fault. I think if UKI 
had said that to Miss B its likely she would have been mentioned it in one of those calls. I 
also think she probably would have told this service about it at an earlier date.   
So I still accept its possible Miss B did try to submit the information as she said  and that 
UKIs portal system was at fault for what happened. But having listened to the calls and 
considered everything provided, including her latest comments, I dont find her account the 
most persuasive. So I cant fairly say UKI acted unreasonably by cancelling her policy or not 
reinstating it. That means Im not going to require it to amend any records or pay Miss B 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman