DRN-2763831
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited sent him a pamphlet, in 
2020, telling him to move his ISA to another business, Parmenion. He felt he had no choice 
but to follow the instructions. As his previous provider was part of the same group, he 
thought the transfer would be simple and trouble-free but due to delays outside his control 
the value of his ISA went down considerably.
What happened
The invitation indicated that Mr M would no longer be able to use online services with 
Aberdeen due to a centralisation exercise but said this could continue with Parmenion 
(according to the investigators assessment).
Mr M admitted he was totally confused by the pamphlet and didnt know what Aberdeen 
wanted him to do. He thought this was an instruction to transfer his ISA and that he didnt 
have any choice given the following paragraph:
Transfer your account to Parmenion to maintain online trading. 'As a valued client who 
currently utilises this service, we wanted to invite you to transfer your account to Parmenion 
in order to maintain access to online trading and save money at the same time.
He said he felt backed into a corner and had no other options available; having a deadline in 
place caused further worry.
An investigator at this service did not feel her complaint should be upheld, saying:
Having read the full pamphlet, she didnt think Aberdeen had said a transfer was 
compulsory 
It also said clients should call it if they had any queries; so while Mr M may have 
been confused about what was being said and whether he had any options, he was 
offered the opportunity to seek clarification
Aberdeen also clearly stated that it was not offering advice and clients should seek 
financial advice if they wanted expert assistance
While Mr and Mrs M used the same email address for their individual Aberdeen ISAs, 
Parmenion did not permit this (which delayed the transfer)  but this was not 
Aberdeens fault
Mr Ms daughter replied, on his behalf, saying:
Mr M could not have had any concerns as it was crystal clear what he had to do to 
retain his ISA and carry on trading i.e. transfer to Parmenion
If Aberdeen had made clear that he could keep her ISAs with Aberdeen he would 
have done this
Please explain where Aberdeen stated clearly that he could keep his ISAs with it?
The Financial Conduct Authority's handbook lists 11 principles of business, by which 
it expects all regulated companies to abide, crucially: Principle 1: Integrity A firm must 
conduct its business with integrity, and Principal 2: Skill, care and diligence
She would like to know why these two principals were not carried out
Due diligence testing should ensure its system was capable of dealing with the 
transfers/merger, and no client would be disadvantaged
She would like a copy of the scripts, which would have been used by the Aberdeen 
and Parmenion project/testing teams, prior to the merger; what criteria was used for 
testing, e.g., name, address, national insurance number, email address etc.
She would have assumed testing for emails was imperative, as Aberdeen was 
inviting its clients, to move to an online system, which was being provided by 
Parmenion
She would like to know how a pre/post reconciliation was carried out, to identify any 
issues. If testing had been carried-out properly, She would have expected a problem 
to arise at that point (such as two separate accounts using the same email address)
Mr Ms daughter raises numerous further concerns about whether the transfer breached 
regulatory rules, particularly in relation to treating customers fairly. She further said that the 
investigator had not shown one ounce of compassion, or impartiality, in your judgement, 
adding: my parents were not in dispute with Aberdeen. They merely carried out the 
instructions which were sent on the pamphlet. They are £30,000 poorer. Where have they 
gone wrong?
 
She also asked the investigator to respond all the detailed regulatory breaches she had 
outlined (only some of which are summarised above).
The investigator reiterated her previous view that the pamphlet was clear, and that Mr M was 
given the choice to remain with Aberdeen as well as the opportunity to seek further 
information about the available options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
Its firstly important to explain that my role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive 
evidence to safely conclude that a business did something wrong; not merely whether it 
might have done things differently. So while Mr M and his daughter argue that Aberdeen 
ought to have made it clearer that she could choose to stay with it, I dont believe its actual 
wording was inadequate or unclear. 
In my view, the full wording does explain that clients could choose to do nothing (although 
they would lose online access as a result) and that they could call an advisor if they were 
unclear about the options or wanted more information.
I also dont agree that Aberdeen failed to meet the necessary regulatory standards. It was 
entitled to stop offering an online access service and insist that customers would have to 
move to another business  such as Parmenion  if they wanted this service going forward. 
While it had allowed married couples to share an email address, I dont accept it needed to 
ensure to insist that the recommended new business, within its overall company structure, to 
also permit this option. Businesses are entitled to change their modes of operation and I 
dont accept that insisting customers have separate emails constituted unfair behaviour.
I recognise that I have not addressed many of Mr Ms daughters points, particularly about 
Aberdeens alleged regulated points, but I do not believe it is necessary to do so given my 
overall view about this complaint. In essence, I completely disagree with her interpretation of the regulators rules regarding 
due diligence and treating customers fairly. In my view, Aberdeens sole responsibility in 
relation to this particular case was to provide clear, accurate and fair information along with a 
helpline for clients who need further information; I am satisfied it did this.
Finally, I should explain that my role, and that of this service, is to provide an informal 
resolution service, assessing all the evidence and considering all the possible grounds for 
upholding a complaint. It is not, however, necessary for an investigator or ombudsman to 
address every single point raised by a complainant or business, merely to explain the 
grounds on which they have reached their overall decision.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman