DRN-2569669
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that his home insurance policy didnt cover him for a claim for flood 
damage. He believes the policy was mis-sold to him by Intelligent Advisory Services Limited.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr W purchased home insurance using his sons tablet. He went through a 
price comparison website and chose a 5 star rated policy. This in turn brought him to 
Intelligents website where he was asked to confirm that he wanted to buy the policy. He 
then passed the tablet back to his son to finalise the purchase. When the documents came 
through, he didnt read them. 
In February 2020 Mr Ws property suffered considerable damage in a flood. When he tried to 
make a claim on his insurance he was told that flood cover was excluded from his policy. 
With the help of a loss assessor he approached Intelligent and asked why he hadnt had his 
attention drawn to the exclusion of flood cover. He had deliberately chosen a five star policy 
because hed thought this would provide the highest level of cover. His loss assessor 
pointed out that Mr W and his wife are elderly and therefore vulnerable and that the 
exclusion on the policy schedule is right near the end of a seven page document.   
Intelligent explained that in order to buy the policy Mr W was told on the website that it was 
important that he understood the cover provided to him  this had links to the maximum 
claims limits, excesses and any endorsements. If he clicked the link to endorsements it 
would have shown no flood cover on the policy. In addition there was a banner (before 
clicking on any links) which set out there was no flood cover on the policy. Finally, he had to 
tick a box to say that he had reviewed the maximum claims limits, excesses and any 
endorsements applicable to the cover. 
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Intelligent had drawn Mr Ws attention 
to the endorsement excluding flood cover so it had acted reasonably.
On behalf of Mr W his son said that Mr W didnt recall reading any banner saying there was 
no flood cover. In light of the his parents disabilities and their generation the banner might 
not have been understood or read. He believes that having been told it was a five star policy 
Mr W reasonably expected that he was comprehensively covered. The property hadnt 
previously suffered flooding, nor was it in a flood area.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I understand how devastating a flood can be. And Im not reviewing here the insurers 
decision not to cover the claim. Taking into account that the transaction all took place online 
I have to decide whether Intelligent gave enough information to Mr W that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that he could make an informed choice about whether the policy was right 
for him. Amongst other things it had to tell him clearly about any clauses which restricted 
cover. And that includes the fact that flood cover was excluded.
I have to say it does look odd to exclude flood cover in an area apparently not prone to 
flooding and for a property that hadnt had any flood claims. Nevertheless it appears that this 
particular policy, that Mr W chose, didnt offer such cover and theres no reason why 
Intelligent shouldnt sell that sort of policy as long as it made clear the excluded cover.
Here Mr W says he chose a five star policy thinking it provided the most comprehensive 
cover, and I can understand that. But I would still expect him to follow through the website to 
ensure he had the right information. On Intelligents website, once the price for the policy is 
displayed the consumer is then taken to a page to Review cover details This then says It 
is important that you understand the cover provided to you before you proceed. This is 
followed by a paragraph within a banner which stands out from the rest of the wording on 
that page. This says:
Important: Flood cover is excluded with this policy. This annual policy does not offer 
flood cover for your home. Damage caused by flooding (or alternative accommodation 
required), where water enters your home from any external source, would not be covered. 
Please consider if this is suitable for your needs and, if the property is mortgaged, that it is 
acceptable to the mortgage provider.
Below this the consumer can click on three links, maximum claims limits, excesses and any 
endorsements. And if endorsements is clicked this shows the excluded flood cover.
Mr W didnt have to click on those links, but he did have to tick a box on the next page which 
confirmed he had reviewed the maximum claims limits, excesses and any endorsements 
applicable to the cover. And that he had reviewed, understood and accepted the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I understand that Mr W is elderly and not in the best of health. But I think its difficult to see 
what else Intelligent could have done to highlight the exclusion. I think the information is 
written in plain English, and adequately highlighted. And whilst I appreciate that Mr W 
doesnt have his own computer he nevertheless chose to purchase the policy online and 
didnt consider asking any further questions about the policy before he ticked the final box. 
Insurers might be expected to allow for being telephoned or to correspond by post rather 
than email or online, and it appears that Intelligent offered all those facilities.
So Im afraid I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mr W and that Intelligent acted 
reasonably in drawing the exclusion of flood cover to his attention before he purchased the 
policy.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman