DRN-2187802
The complaint
On behalf of his late wife Mrs C, Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is 
responsible for poor service in connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Sadly, Mrs C passed away on 2 August 2020. Im sorry for Mr Cs loss.
 
Mrs C had a British Gas policy. It covered a central heating boiler or warm air unit (WAU). 
The cover included an annual service.
As she suffered dementia, Mr C was Mrs Cs carer and dealt with matters on her behalf. 
British Gas had recorded her as a vulnerable customer.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). We may deal with a consumer complaint about a regulated activity 
such as providing insurance. We dont have power to deal with a complaint about an 
unregulated activity such as quoting a price for work not covered by insurance.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mr and Mrs C had an old WAU. On 17 September 2019 British Gas visited to do an annual 
service. During that service, British Gas said the flue was dangerous and cut off the gas 
supply to the WAU.
Mr C cancelled the cover. He wrote a letter of complaint to British Gas dated 30 October 
2019. He chased the complaint in November 2019 and January 2020. He brought his 
complaint to us on 21 January 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that British 
Gas had treated Mr C unfairly and made an error in the way it managed the claim and 
communication with him. She thought that British Gas hadnt actively tried to resolve the 
claim. As a result, Mr and Mrs C suffered without heating and hot water.
 
The investigator recommended that British Gas should pay Mr C £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to British Gas on 3 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
The policy didnt cover a replacement of the flue or the WAU and it didnt cover the 
hot water cylinder. So, unfortunately, all the options open to Mr C would involve a 
cost to him.
Subject to any further information from Mr C or from British Gas, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
British Gas agreed with the provisional decision.
Mr C disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
British Gas has been trying to eliminate WAUs from its system.
The flue couldve been leaking from the first join - less than 1 metre from the flue 
terminal.
British Gas said it didnt want the job.
British Gas was on a sales drive for wet central heating systems (with radiators).
British Gas recommended a wet system to Mr C. He didnt want the upheaval. 
He never asked for any of the solutions to be cost free.
He chose a new WAU at over £6,000.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the British Gas work history, I see that the WAU dated from 1992 and British Gas had 
been covering it for about ten years. 
Ive seen a photograph of a cupboard containing the WAU and a hot water cylinder. From 
what Mr C and British Gas have each said, the WAU (despite its name) provided not only 
warm air but also hot water. That water was stored in the cylinder but there was no electric 
immersion heater in the cylinder. 
Ive also seen a photograph of the flue inside the roof space.
Mrs Cs policy automatically renewed for a year from 13 March 2019. She didnt have 
central heating cover or plumbing and drainage cover  so there was no cover for the hot 
water cylinder.
Mrs C had boiler and controls cover and cover for a gas fire. The boiler and controls cover 
provided for repair or replacement of parts including a flue up to a metre in length. The cover 
included a replacement of a boiler or WAU but not if it was over ten years old (unless it had 
caught fire or exploded). 
The cover was subject to policy terms. They included the following:Whats not covered
Repairing or replacing the flue including the flue terminal for any open flued 
appliances or if the flue is over one metre in length
Working in dangerous or unsafe
conditions
We wont start or continue doing any work in your home if we believe theres a health 
and safety risk, for example: hazardous chemicals, pest infestations, verbal or 
physical abuse, or harassment. And we wont return to finish the work until that risk is 
gone.
If any asbestos needs to be removed before we can repair your boiler, appliance or 
system, youll need to arrange and pay for someone else to remove it and give you a 
Certificate of Reoccupation which youll need to show us.
So the policy didnt cover a flue longer than a metre. And the policy didnt cover asbestos 
removal work.
Mr C and British Gas agree that the WAU was working up to the annual service visit on 17 
September 2019. So I can understand that Mr C wasnt expecting British Gas to turn it off. 
But I havent seen any evidence that British Gas was wrong that the flue was leaking carbon 
monoxide and was dangerous. So I accept that British Gas had to disconnect the gas 
supply.
From the photograph, I find that the flue was over a metre in length.
Ive seen a certificate from a laboratory. From that, I find that British Gas sent asbestos 
experts to take samples on 24 September and they reported on 25 September 2019 that 
tests showed the flue was of asbestos cement.
As the flue was over a metre in length and contained asbestos, the policy didnt cover a 
repair or replacement. I dont find that British Gas treated Mr or Mrs C unfairly by declining to 
do such work free of charge.
Ive seen evidence that British Gas (or strictly speaking a company associated with that 
insurance company) was reluctant to quote a price for a new flue. Mr C has provided its 
checklist dated 18 September 2019 which includes the following:
Warm Air Immediately Dangerous, new flue required, would need owner/roofer to 
install new flashing and us to replace flue. Not work we want to be involved with as 
per Manager
But British Gas (or strictly speaking a company associated with that insurance company) 
later quoted for work that was outside the policy cover. I dont have power to comment on 
the approach that the company took to quoting for such work.
British Gas has provided some itemised phone bills. From those, I see that it made calls to 
Mr C on 27 September and 7 and 8 October 2019. Each call is shown with a duration of at 
least ten minutes. So I find it likely that British Gas gave Mr C an explanation of why it hadnt 
got his WAU working and what his options were. 
Mr Cs letter of complaint called for a final response with written reasons. Under DISP, 
British Gas shouldve sent a final response within eight weeks. I dont think it sent any final response at all. I dont condone that. But it didnt delay Mr C by more than about three weeks 
in bringing the complaint to us. 
I consider that  to an extent - the lack of a final response also hampered our investigation. 
However, I have to disagree with our investigators opinion and recommendation.
I have to place weight on the policy terms. The policy didnt cover a replacement of the flue 
or the WAU and it didnt cover the hot water cylinder. So I dont find that any failing on the 
part of British Gas was responsible for the lack of central heating and hot water at Mr and 
Mrs Cs home from 17 September 2019. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr C compensation on 
behalf of Mrs Cs estate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman