DRN-4040520
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax discriminated against him when 
it closed his bank account.
What happened
Mr A opened a rewards based current account with Halifax in his sole name. Mr A later 
made an appointment at his local Halifax branch to add his wife to the account. 
Unfortunately, because of local traffic delays, Mr A and his wife arrived 16 minutes late for 
the meeting. Halifax said there was insufficient time for it to add Mr As wife to the account 
as there was another appointment booked after Mr As appointment time. Following a 
discussion with the branch manager Mr A and his wife left the branch without Mr As wife 
being added to the account. The following day, Halifax wrote to Mr A giving him notice that it 
was closing his account.
Mr A complained to Halifax that it had closed his account because of his faith. He believed 
there was time to fulfil the appointment and said he hadnt verbally abused Halifax staff as it 
had suggested. Halifax said the appointment was cancelled because Mr A arrived late and 
there was no time to complete the required amendments to the account. Halifax confirmed 
Mr A had been given notice to close his account because of his behaviour in the branch and 
not for any other reason.
As Mr A wasnt happy with the response he received from Halifax he brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
thought that Halifax hadnt done anything wrong when it made the decision to close the 
account. Mr A asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I 
will now explain why.
Mr A opened his account on-line, and Ive seen evidence that if a joint reward account was 
required Mr A would need to visit a Halifax branch with his wife to do this. Halifax confirmed 
an appointment time to Mr A in an email dated 15 June. Although there is some dispute 
about how long the appointment was due to last, Mr A has provided a copy of the email he 
received, and this explained the appointment was for 12.30 -1.30pm (1 hour). Theres no 
dispute Mr A and his wife arrived 16 minutes late and that Halifax told Mr A it would be 
unable to complete the appointment. Halifax says that when Mr A was told there wasnt 
enough time to complete the appointment, he became abusive towards its staff. Mr A 
strongly denies this was the case, and says he believed there was sufficient time to deal with 
adding his wife to the account. 
I should first explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning we dont 
have the power to decide whether or not Halifax is in breach of the Equality Act 2010 - only a 
court has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. Ive 
read the submissions made by Mr A and Halifax about what happened on the day the 
appointment was unfulfilled. Im persuaded these discussions were likely to have resulted in 
a disagreement, but I cant say precisely what was said as I wasnt there. Regardless of this, 
the appointment was for one hour and Halifax says there was another appointment booked 
immediately after Mr As appointment. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to 
make the decision not to proceed with the appointment if it felt the change to the account 
couldnt be completed in time. While I empathise with Mr A that Halifax decided not to 
complete the appointment, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonable or unfairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax says Mr A was abusive to staff when he was told the appointment wouldnt be fulfilled 
but Mr A says he went to the branch peacefully and didnt threaten anyone. It seems more 
likely to me that Halifax made the decision to close Mr As account because it felt his 
behaviour was unacceptable. Although this is a subjective decision by Halifax, its able to 
close Mr As account if it feels there has been a breakdown in the relationship or if it believed 
Mr A was abusive to its staff. The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Halifax explained its 
decision to Mr A and gave him time to make other arrangements for his banking  although I 
note he already had other accounts he could utilize.
Mr A feels Halifax over-charged him for the time he held the account. The monthly charge 
was included on the on-line platform when Mr A applied for the account, and it would have 
been reasonably clear to Mr A what the charge was. Ive seen the statements for Mr As 
account and the charges Halifax applied, and Im satisfied he was only charged for the time 
he held the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman