DRN-3161236
The complaint
 Ms B complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
TFS Loans lent Ms B a loan of £5,000 in January 2019, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oTFS Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Ms B. 
It says it called Ms B to ask about her expenditure, verified her income using an 
online income verifier and carried out a credit search. It says based on what it 
gathered the loan was affordable.
oFrom what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments of
around £223.60, given the length of the loan commitment and size of the loan, I 
would have expected to TFS Loans to ask Ms B about her monthly income and 
expenses including verifying some of the information she provided. I can also see 
from the credit search that Ms B had a number of defaults and County Court 
Judgements. Although I acknowledge TFS Loans point that these were from a 
number of years before the loan application, there were outstanding balances on 
most of them. I think on seeing this, it ought to have prompted TFS Loans to find out 
more. I cant see that it did this or verify any of Ms Bs expenditure and so I dont 
think its checks went far enough.
oMs B has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from TFS Loans at the time of the 
loan as I think her bank statements provide a clear picture about her actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, Ms B was gambling regularly, and a 
significant amount of her expenditure was going on this. It is clear from seeing this 
that Ms B was having problems managing her finances. I think if TFS had carried out 
further checks it would have uncovered this and not given her the loan.
oIn the circumstances, TFS Loans lent to Ms B when it shouldnt have, and it needs to 
put things right.
o
Putting things right
While I think TFS Loans shouldnt have lent to Ms B, I think it will be fair for her to repay the 
capital of £5,000 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, TFS Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Ms B, if it exceeds the capital amount of £5,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Ms B, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Ms B credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. TFS Loans must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for 
one.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct TFS Loans Limited to put
things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman