DRN-2399582
The complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold him a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr P took out in a meeting in 2002 at the same time as 
he applied for a mortgage. I can see he applied through a third party, but Santander has 
taken responsibility for the sale, and therefore this complaint. The policy was in Mr Ps sole 
name. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and he paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and I have followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P says he was told PPI was required to get the mortgage. I cant know what was said in 
the meeting, but I have considered Mr Ps comments carefully and looked at the available 
paperwork from the sale. I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and 
how that might affect what Mr P recalls.
On Mr Ps mortgage application form the options to select or decline PPI were set out with 
equal prominence. Mr P indicated that he wanted it, and theres nothing on the form that I 
think could reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory.  Santander also says 
for the PPI to be set up Mr P would need to have then completed and signed a separate PPI 
application form and a direct debit mandate. It cant provide copies of these forms, but this 
isnt unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. Overall, I think it was most likely 
Santander made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr P agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to make sure it was suitable. Based on 
what I know of Mr Ps circumstances at the time I think the PPI was right for him. Mr P was 
entitled to three months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for longer - up to 12 months for accident and sickness claims. It also gave him 
up to 12 months unemployment cover. Given Mr P had a high-value, long-term debt secured 
on his home, and the serious consequences of missing a mortgage payment, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr P if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job. And as he 
was paying monthly, he could have cancelled the PPI with incurring any further costs if he no 
longer wanted it, or his circumstances changed. 
Mr P says the PPI wasnt explained to him at all. I agree its possible Santander didnt give 
Mr P all the information he needed to make an informed decision. But I dont think he has 
lost out because of this. I say this as the PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered, 
and it was apparently affordable. And it seems Mr P wasnt affected by the main exclusions 
and limitation of the policy. So I dont think he would have made a different decision with 
better information.
It follows I dont think Mr P lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman