DRN-3065878
The complaint
Mr R complains that Soteria Insurance Limited carried out inadequate repairs to his car 
following a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr Rs car was stationary and parked in a bay when a third-party vehicle 
drove into the back of him. The third-party admitted fault for the incident, and Mr R made a 
claim on his insurance policy for the car to be repaired. 
As a result of the incident, there had been some damage to the paintwork on Mr Rs car, 
which was repaired by Soteria. Mr Rs complaint about Soteria is that he isnt happy with the 
repairs that have been carried out to the paintwork as he says they arent to a satisfactory 
standard. He says that the paintwork hasnt been blended properly and he would like Soteria 
to carry out proper repairs to his car.
Soteria didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, it said that it had carried out the repairs in line with 
Mr Rs policy. And so, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator also looked into Mr Rs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She explained 
that she thought the paintwork to Mr Rs car had been carried out to the standard detailed in 
the policy documents, she didnt think that the engineers later decision was unfair or 
untimely, and she found that Soteria had dealt with Mr Rs complaint within a reasonable 
time.
Mr R wasnt happy with our investigators outcome. He says he sent this service a copy of a 
report from a third party that shows the paintwork needs repairing still.
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Rs situation. Its clear that he feels very 
strongly about his complaint, and I know how important his car is to him. In reaching my 
conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr R has found 
himself in. Ive no doubt it was distressing for him when someone collided with his car, and I 
have sympathy for the fact that the situation he now finds himself in appears to be as a result 
of an incident that wasnt his fault.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if Soteria has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr Rs claim  and I think it has.
Looking at the policy documents that apply to Mr Rs policy, these say that For the purpose 
of any claim settlement, repair as near as is reasonably practicable will be sufficient, even 
though the former appearance or condition of the Insured Vehicle may not be precisely 
restored.
In order for me to be able to determine whether Soteria have carried out the repairs in line 
with the policy I have, firstly, looked at the photos of Mr Rs car that have been provided to 
this service by Soteria. Having looked at these, its very difficult to see where the issues with 
the paintwork are. I know Mr R will be disappointed with this comment, but for me to be able 
to find that the paintwork was insufficient, to the point where Soteria would need to do 
something more to put things right, Id need to be satisfied that the repairs didnt meet the 
standard required in the policy terms  and the photos themselves dont show this. I have 
given Mr R the opportunity to send his own photos of the repairs, but he has declined to do 
this.
Ive listened to the calls Mr R has had with this service, and I understand that he wants 
someone to go out and inspect his car. But I think the photos alone are enough to show that 
Soteria have repaired the paintwork to the standard outlined in its policy document. I know 
that the paintwork isnt to the standard Mr R would like it to be, but the policy insures the 
repairs to be carried out to a standard that is reasonably practicable  and I havent seen 
anything that persuades me Soteria havent met this standard. 
I can see that an engineer at Soteria reviewed the images of Mr Rs car again to check the 
paintwork repairs and they confirmed that they were happy with the work that had been 
carried out. Although they did state that there had been some previous repair to the 
paintwork on the drivers side which had caused a colour match issue  and they werent 
prepared to blend the paintwork on this previous repair. 
I know Mr R disputes that there were previous repairs to the paintwork, and he says the 
paintwork was in immaculate condition prior to the incident. But based on the information 
provided by the engineer and the repairers, this doesnt appear to be the case. Although I 
appreciate that its possible that the previous repairs might not have been noticeable without 
closer inspection. I dont find that it was unreasonable of Soteria to decline to remedy the 
paintwork of the previous repair.  
I know Mr R feels that the repairs were rushed. And this is part of the reason why the repairs 
werent satisfactory. But I dont think I can say that the time it took alone would mean that the 
repairs wouldnt have been to an adequate standard. 
I can see that Mr R has sent this service information from a third party to show how much it 
would cost to put things right and to prove that the repairs Soteria carried out werent 
adequate. But I dont find that that a quote to put things right necessarily means that the 
repairs werent to the standard required in the policy documents. The policy documents state 
that the repair work may not be precisely restored  so its possible that additional work 
could improve the look of the paintwork to a more acceptable standard to Mr R. But this 
doesnt mean that Soteria didnt carry out the work to a required standard.
Ive also looked at the timeliness of how Soteria has dealt with things, but I havent seen any 
evidence of unreasonable delays in its claims process. 
Like I said, I understand Mr R will be very disappointed by this decision, but based on what 
Ive said, I dont find that Soteria have acted unfairly, and so I wont be asking them to do 
anything more to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman