DRN-3673238
The complaint
Mr J says the advice given and the arrangements made by Facet Investment Management 
Ltd (FIM), to switch his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life into a 
platform SIPP with the same provider, with a discretionary fund management (DFM) 
arrangement and make the recommended investments, was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr J became a client of Berkeley Financial Partners (BFP) in December 2016. He signed a 
client agreement at that time to receive an ongoing advice service. BFP was an appointed 
representative (AR) of FIM. As the principal firm, FIM was responsible for any acts and 
omissions of its agent. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer to FIM throughout my decision.
FIM gathered information about Mr Js objectives, circumstances and attitude to risk. Mr Js 
objectives were recorded in the following terms:
-You have confirmed that you intend to retire earlier than your state retirement age of 
67, possibly at aged 60 indicating you would have a term to retirement of some 6 
years; however you are also aware that you can draw benefits from some of your 
pension arrangements from the age of 55.
-Naturally the ability to be able to retire early will depend on what your existing 
arrangements will be able to pay you at such a time.
-The recent volatility in the investment markets has led you to have some concerns 
about your Standard Life Pension, how it is invested, your risk profile and current 
strategy. You also said that going forward, you do not wish to take any unnecessary 
risks with your pension plan as it has taken a long time to build up. You said you 
would specifically like to start undergoing annual reviews to check on the 
performance of the pension and understand what options are available to you
FIM produced a suitability report for Mr J dated 4 January 2017. In summary it 
recommended he should: 
- Switch his existing Standard Life SIPP into a platform SIPP with the same provider.
- Invest the funds in line with his assessed low/medium attitude to risk through a DFM 
arrangement with Facet.
Mr J accepted FIMs recommendations and the switch went ahead, with about £153,000 
moving into his new SIPP on 10 January 2017.
In December 2020, Mr J raised several concerns with FIM about what had happened to his 
pension pot. He thought the portfolios it had recommended had been mis-sold, with his 
monies being placed in vehicles that werent appropriate for his risk appetite. He considered 
it had failed to conduct due diligence or ongoing risk and liquidity monitoring. And he thought 
FIM had failed in its responsibility as his financial adviser by not keeping his portfolio under 
review in light of his changing goals and risk appetite.
FIM issued its final response to Mr J on 21 January 2021. It rejected his complaint. It said Mr 
Js investments had been appropriate for his assessed attitude to risk. It said there was no 
way of foreseeing that his funds would be suspended, nor any action it couldve taken to 
alter the situation. And it said his risk profile had remained consistent over the period.
Mr J brought his case to this Service. The Investigator who reviewed it recommended it be 
upheld. She had concerns about the advice FIM provided, in particular in relation to matters 
such as costs of the new arrangement; the increased risk he was being exposed to and 
absence of a compelling rationale for the recommendations made.
FIM disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. In summarising its position it 
said:
In conclusion, the advice to transfer the pension and the associated investment solution 
were suitableOn a proper reflection, whilst the funds being suspended is unfortunate, it 
does not mean the pension transfer or the investment solution was not suitable. At the time 
of the advice, and up to suspension of the funds, there was no reason to think the portfolio 
was not suitable. The risk of the portfolio was suitable for [Mr J].
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Js complaint was passed to me 
to review the case afresh. I issued a provisional decision earlier this month. Neither party 
has provided material new evidence or arguments and so I see no reason to depart from my 
initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Js case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by FIM for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like FIM. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Js best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.Further, when considering the use of a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement, 
the regulator has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take into account 
issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs costs of the arrangement were explained 
to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also relevant to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach each 
firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is different. So 
different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations. Several factors are 
relevant in this case.
The conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature, 
weaknesses in the DIMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an adviser 
should consider in their due diligence include:
- Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they make, 
in addition to an annual charge.
- What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
- Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending a DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
Also, how the DFM will specifically invest this investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a 
current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines as 
to how it manages those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk scale 
mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt sufficiently 
limited, did it agree appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed to invest in?
If there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be sure 
that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
What instructions did the adviser give the DFM on the attitude to risk or model portfolio to 
use? Did the adviser effectively give the fund manager freedom to do as it thought 
appropriate? If this has happened the adviser will have a responsibility for what 
subsequently happened  particularly given their obligations to act in the clients best 
interests.Was the DFMs initial asset selection broadly consistent with its mandate? What due 
diligence did the adviser carry out at the beginning? Did the DFM fail to get the asset 
allocation right from the outset, or did things gradually wander off course?
If the DFM departed from the mandate, did the adviser react to this? Regulatory guidance 
and industry best practice required the adviser to monitor the DFMs ongoing performance, 
having agreed a schedule for information to be exchanged between them. Could any losses 
caused by the DFM have been avoided by the advisers actions?
Did FIM meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr J?
I dont think FIM met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to FIMs transaction with Mr J that are important to my 
consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire, pension and portfolio 
comparators and the suitability report.
FIMs fact-find wasnt very detailed. It recorded that Mr J was 54 at the time of the advice. He 
was married with no financial dependents. He was employed as a project manager, with 
annual earnings of £50,000. No details of household expenditure and liabilities was 
captured. I dont know what his household monthly disposable income was.
Mr and Mrs J owned their home, which was said to be worth £340,000. I dont know if there 
was an outstanding mortgage. They had around £60,000 in savings. Both he and his wife 
were said to be in good health.
Mr J had two personal pensions. One was a withdrawal fund with Aegon. At the time it was 
said to have a value of £66,000. He also had a Standard Life SIPP with a recorded value of 
about £148,000. He was entitled to a state pension from the age of 67. He was said to want 
to retire at 60, in around 6 years. Mr Js wife was entitled to a pension from a former 
employer, but no details were recorded.
At a basic level, I cant see evidence of modelling carried out by FIM which shows how the 
advice it gave Mr J in 2017 came together to deliver his income requirements in retirement. 
Indeed, what level of income was he targeting? And so, what did he need to achieve with his 
personal pensions in order to secure this? And how did the wider household position impact 
on these considerations? How did his existing provision and what was being proposed 
measure up against these metrics?
I think this analysis wouldve been important to Mr J being able to take an informed decision 
about what to do with his personal pension. But theres nothing in the suitability report or fact 
find to speak to these matters. This is a fundamental weakness.
FIM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr J about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for a retirement income.
FIM recommended Mr J switch his existing SIPP into a different Standard Life SIPP, using a 
DFM arrangement and to invest in line with his assessed attitude to risk. I find there are 
several further problems with its advice.
Charges
FIM set out the ongoing charges Mr J would incur if he agreed to its recommendations. As 
follows:Ongoing fund charge (the cost to FACET of managing the fund (i.e. buying and selling 
various assets from time to time in line with the fund managers requirements) 0.60%
Total adviser remuneration 0.50%
Portfolio manager fee (the charge made by FACET for running the fund - includes VAT at 
the standard rate) 0.60%
Platform charge (the charge made by Standard Life for the use of the platform) 0.35% 
Product administration charge (the charge made by Standard Life specifically for the 
establishment and running of the product in question) 0.05%
Total Annual Charge 2.10%
The way FIM set out these charges appeared clear. It helpfully broke down the constituent 
elements and enabled Mr J to understand what each party was charging for the services it 
was providing. It also acknowledged the costs would be higher than his existing 
arrangements. In summarising this section of the suitability report, it said (bolding is my 
emphasis):
Upon analysis, therefore, the annual ongoing charge under the proposed new platform 
SIPP is only marginally higher than under the present arrangements, even allowing for 
the discretionary fund management approach.
Unfortunately, there are two significant problems with the basic information FIM provided:
- Firstly, the illustration produced by Standard Life on 19 December 2016 indicated that the 
average yearly costs associated with the recommendations were higher than it had told Mr J 
at 2.4%. FIMs suitability report seems to have underestimated the ongoing fund charge and 
omitted the SIPP providers cash management administration charge.
- Secondly, while FIM said in its last submission the costs associated with his previous 
arrangement amounted to around 1.42% of his fund value, it didnt set this out anywhere in 
the suitability report. It didnt provide a direct comparison with the charges that its 
recommended arrangements would give rise to.
Rather than being only marginally higher, the costs associated with FIMs recommendations 
represented an increase of nearly 60%. Theres no analysis provided in the suitability report 
about the drag effect of these higher costs on his funds. How much more would his new 
SIPP investments needed to have returned simply to negate these? This wouldve been 
important for Mr J to understand.
Further, I dont think the suitability report was sufficiently clear when comparing the 
performance of Mr Js existing funds with the proposed new arrangement. It provided an 
analysis of performance of his existing four individual funds, but no weighted cumulative 
data. So, when separately in the report it provided an analysis of the historic performance of 
the funds its was proposing he couldnt have carried out a like with like comparison.
Instead narrative FIM provided at the end of the recommendations section was as follows:
The performance differential between the discretionary managed fund and your existing 
Standard Life Portfolio is quite varied with a slight improvement of your current plan over the 
1 year period, but with a slight improvement of the discretionary managed fund over your 
current portfolio over the 3 and 5 year periods
And later in the section referring to the higher costs and charges for its new arrangement, 
FIM told Mr J (bolding is my emphasis):Charges, of course, are not necessarily the be all and end all of the matter. The greatest 
impact upon the eventual value of your pension fund will be the net investment growth rate 
experienced (i.e. after charges) and my considered opinionis that your growth 
prospects will be significantly enhanced by the utilization of the FACET discretionary 
management service.
I dont think the way FIM dealt with this analysis was clear, I think it was misleading. I say 
this because its own analysis, which I cant see was shared with Mr J painted quite a 
different picture:
These figures suggest Mr Js existing funds had a reasonable chance of outperforming the 
proposal it was recommending. And this was before the drag of higher charges was being 
factored in. I dont think Mr J wouldve got this impression from the suitability report.
FIM hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a reasonable prospect for Mr J to be better 
off as a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring and the 
nature of the investment strategy it was recommending.
Risk
Mr J completed a risk appetite assessment. FIM said he was a low/medium risk investor 
(three out of six on the scale it used). This was defined in the following terms:
A Low Medium Risk investor is looking for an investment where the return should be higher 
than that available from a high street deposit account over the medium to long term and 
accept that the value of the investment could fall as well as rise. They would feel 
uncomfortable however if their investments were to rise and fall in value very rapidly, and 
whilst they are prepared to accept some equity exposure, are unwilling to invest the bulk of 
their assets in equities. Their investment objective is to generate limited growth with an 
emphasis on capital preservation over the medium term.
Its also of note that FIM made the following observation about Mr Js existing investments 
stance:
We would equate the degree in which your current portfolio invests in equities to that of 
someone who has a High Medium Risk which is 2 places higher than your preferred level. 
You appreciate that over the last 5 years your overall portfolio has performed well, but 
because you are mindful of volatility, you would like to consolidate those gains. On a 
cautionary note we should also bear in mind that it is the opinion of FACETS discretionary 
fund managers that in the current economic climate equities appear to be overpriced.
The risk questionnaire Mr J completed also identifies his capacity for loss. He indicated an 
intention to use his pension funds in the following 5-10 years. When asked how much of his 
funds he could afford to lose without a significant impact on his future standard of living, he 
indicated 0-5% capacity i.e. none or very little.
I also note that Mr Js objectives were similarly cautiously couched  hed said he didnt want 
to take any unnecessary risks with his pension plan as it had taken a long time to build up. 
He wanted annual reviews to check on the performance of his pension and understand what 
options were available.
Taken together, we have a picture of someone who didnt want to take unnecessary risks, 
Mr J felt he couldnt afford to do so. And it seems his only other provision was another 
smaller personal pension pot. His SIPP portfolio in 2017 seems to have been invested above 
his appetite for risk, so some change in approach was appropriate. He was thinking ahead to 
his retirement, which was 6 years away. His main priority was preserving the value of his pot 
until that time.
An important first question was whether FIMs proposals resulted in Mr Js exposure to risk 
being reduced. It hasnt provided sufficient evidence to this Service that this was the case. 
While it seems Mr Js pension was invested in a blend of its EF FACET Cautious and 
Balanced portfolios, it hasnt provided a breakdown of how much was placed in each vehicle 
and how the proportions changed over time.
So, I tend to agree with the Investigator when she found that Mr J was being exposed to 
different risks that werent clear to him. The fact-sheet for the EF FACET Cautious portfolio 
from 2019 said the following:
The Fund will be actively managed and invested in multiple asset classes with a portfolio of 
transferrable securities which may include investment trusts, collective investment schemes, 
deposits, money market instruments, commodity and property funds. The investment 
manager has the discretion to weight the portfolio towards the investment type, or 
geographical region, at any time provided it is compatible with the investment objective, risk 
parameters and policy of the Fund as a whole.
As the Investigator noted, the agreement hed entered into with the DFM gave it significant 
discretion to act on his behalf. And in its agreement it pointed to risks that werent really 
drawn out in the suitability report, including:
- Foreign currency risk.
- Investing in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes, which werent covered 
under the UK regulatory regime.
- The use of complex investment instruments such as warrants and derivatives.
- Foreign market risk.
- Contingent Liability Investment Transactions.
Some of these risks were touched on in the risk assessment model FIM used, but these 
werent covered in the low/medium definition it ascribed to Mr J.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr J was particularly knowledgeable about investment and 
pension matters. Of course, thats why he sought professional advice from FIM. Its not clear 
he wouldve understood how some of the potential investment vehicles wouldve worked. 
Nor what some of the different risks he was being exposed to were.
Further, the Investigator asked FIM what research it had done into how funds available 
under Mr Js then existing SIPP couldve been utilised to manage his risk exposure. It 
responded in the following terms:
Given [Mr Js] requirements of potentially higher returns via a more targeted and consistent 
investment approach, this would not have been possible via the existing Personal Pension 
due to a restricted offering in terms of fund selection. The investment universe was far 
greater via the wrap platform SIPP and, as mentioned above, the DFM service would also not have been available. Together these formed a significant part of the overall solution 
recommended to fulfil [Mr Js] requirements.
I dont find FIMs response compelling. I think it shouldve provided Mr J with more 
information about how he could remain within his existing SIPP and select alternative funds 
which had a better match with his risk appetite. Would these have offered comparable 
performance to the arrangements recommended? And even if projections were somewhat 
lower, this wouldve been consistent with his desire to de-risk his portfolio. It is highly likely 
that the costs to Mr J wouldve been lower. As wouldve been the risks he was being 
exposed to.
Ongoing fund management
Mr J hadnt used a DFM arrangement previously. The concept was introduced by FIM. There 
was a duty of care on it to make sure what it was recommending was appropriate for him. 
But its not clear to me he wouldve had a clear idea about the added value being provided 
by the arrangement. Yet he was paying a lot of money for it.
I cant see that FIM searched the market for alternative DFM providers. Nor explored the 
different sorts of services available nor whether the options it had suggested was 
competitive in terms of fees. Its not clear to me he wouldve appreciated the difference 
between the services it was providing as opposed to the DFM.
This Service has not had sight of evidence which shows how the DFM adhered or otherwise 
to the original mandate. And theres no evidence which shows how asset allocation over 
time was consistent with Mr Js risk appetite. Regulatory guidance required FIM to monitor 
the DFMs ongoing performance and take corrective action as appropriate.
Mr J wasnt a sophisticated investor. He had a modest pension pot which hed built up over 
many years. FIM hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the recommendations it made to 
him to take on a DFM facility, was suitable. Rather the arrangement it put in place was 
overengineered, complicated, expensive and it wasnt clear it was likely to be able to 
produce better returns than his previous pension.
Overall, FIM hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the switch of Mr Js Standard Life 
pension into a new SIPP with the same provider, with the addition of a DFM arrangement 
was clearly in his best interests.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Js case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Facet Investment Management Ltd responsible for.
In order for FIM to be able to make proper calculations Mr J will need to cooperate so that it 
has access to necessary information such as current investment valuations. So, he may 
need to provide it with a letter of authority to enable it to make contact with appropriate third 
parties to gather such data.
It is also the case that Mr J cant benefit from double recovery in respect of the same 
substantive complaint. For example, I understand one of the holdings within a terminated fund (one of the illiquid 
holdings) is currently in the process of being sold. This means all clients invested within this 
fund will be receiving a portion of this, expected to be in Q4 2022. As further sales are made 
of other holdings, further distributions can be expected. As a terminated fund cannot be sold 
or transferred, it is reasonable for FIMs settlement to be conditional on receiving an 
undertaking from Mr J that any sums received are paid to it, given the redress he will already 
have received.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Facet Investment Management Ltd should pay 
Mr J the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Facet Investment Management Ltd pays Mr J the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Facet Investment 
Management Ltd doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If FIM had provided suitable advice, I think it wouldve recommended Mr J make some 
switches to his investments within his existing Standard Life SIPP, to bring them into line 
with his risk appetite and retirement objectives.
So, Facet Investment Management Ltd needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr J has suffered as a result of making the switch of his pension 
funds from his original Standard Life SIPP
Facet Investment Management Ltd should calculate a notional value for Mr Js previous 
personal pension plan, had switches been effected to ensure his portfolio was in keeping 
with his risk appetite, as at the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been switched to his 
new SIPP and DFM arrangement.
To do this, FIM should use a hybrid benchmark, using a 50/50 split of (i) the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return Index) and (ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Js 
pension had been invested in accordance with his risk outlook.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, FIM should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. And 
apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
I consider Mr J was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean he 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return he couldve obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.2. Calculate the current value of Mr Js SIPP. And pay a commercial value to buy any 
investments which cannot currently be redeemed
Facet Investment Management Ltd should then find the current value of Mr Js SIPP, 
including investments and any cash held.
Im not aware of the detailed position regarding any additional contributions that Mr J made 
to his SIPP. But I understand he has been taking benefits from his pension. After confirming 
the detailed position, then the value FIM obtains or the calculations it makes should assume 
these adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.
If, any investment remains illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. FIM should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If FIM is unwilling or unable to purchase the illiquid investments, the value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where it has 
compensated Mr J fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investments.
Any undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr J may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. FIM will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Js SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Js 
former personal pension and the equivalent current value of his SIPP will be his basic 
financial loss that Facet Investment Management Ltd needs to redress.
If FIM pays compensation into Mr Js SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension plan.
If paying compensation into Mr J s SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and FIM takes on his investment, then it should pay his 
compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J s actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr J is a basic rate taxpayer, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to 
take TFC, the reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
FIM should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date of calculation to the date of 
payment at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If FIM deducts tax it should 
provide Mr J with a tax certificate.If FIM considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, 
it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
FIM should also provide details of its calculations to Mr J in a clear format.
Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mr J has been caused trouble and upset because of Facet Investment 
Management Ltd failings. His retirement planning has been disrupted. In recognition of this it 
should pay him a further £500.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. As such, l require Facet 
Investment Management Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman