DRN-3004651
The complaint
Mrs S complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1993. At the time, the seller was Leeds Permanent Building Society, which later 
merged with Halifax. Halifax is now a trading name of Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). For 
simplicity Ill just refer to BoS in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a mortgage with BoS in 1986, but did not take out PPI at that point. Over 
time, Mrs S took out a series of further advances, which she said were to fund home 
improvements. In 1991, with one of these further advances, she took out a PPI policy, which 
was cancelled in 1992. BoS upheld Mrs Ss complaint about this PPI sale, and has paid 
compensation to her, calculated in line with our approach. So I have not looked further at the 
sale of PPI in 1991. 
This complaint is about the sale of PPI with a later further advance in 1993. Mrs S said the 
sale took place during a meeting, and she wasnt given a choice about taking the policy. She 
also said she didnt need the cover as she had good employee benefits. I should also say 
here that Mrs S has mentioned the sale of other insurance products with the further 
advances, but, for the avoidance of doubt, they are not the subject of this complaint and I 
havent considered them in this decision. If Mrs S is unhappy about the sale of any of these 
other products she should contact BoS in the first instance. 
The PPI policy, called income protection cover, provided accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover for Mrs S. The monthly cost was £31.50, and the monthly benefit was 
£450.00. If Mrs S had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 - 
having reviewed all the evidence and information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our 
adjudicator, and proposed to uphold this complaint. BoS responded to say that it accepted 
my provisional decision, and Mrs S had nothing further to add, so I can now issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as I have very little documentary evidence. BoS could not 
provide a copy of the further advance application form from 1993 (although it did send in a 
copy of the application from 1991). However, it was able to provide copies of the policy 
schedule and terms and conditions, and some other correspondence relating to the further 
advances in 1991 and 1993. It also sent in copies of computer records of Mrs Ss mortgage 
account and PPI policy. 
BoS told us it couldnt confirm whether the PPI sale had taken place in a branch, but it had 
considered the complaint on the basis that it had, and that Mrs S had been advised to take 
the cover. Mrs S said it was a branch sale, and Ive no reason to doubt that (and I note that 
Mrs S said that BoS had told her during a phone conversation about this complaint that it 
agreed on this point). 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs S said about not being given a choice about taking the 
PPI. I accept that as it seems the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser 
might have explained the policy. But BoS couldnt provide the further advance application 
form for 1993  and neither could it give us a sample copy. The only application form we 
have is a copy of Mrs Ss further advance application from 1991, on which I note that 
applicants were required to tick a box to say they didnt want cover  so in the absence of a 
positive choice, PPI was automatically applied. 
I cannot simply assume from that, that the same situation would necessarily have applied 
two years later, in 1993. So we asked BoS for a second time whether they could provide a 
sample form from 1993  they reiterated that they could not. We also asked whether, in the 
absence of a form from 1993, we should treat the 1991 form as representing what wouldve 
been in use in 1993, and otherwise how it had satisfied itself that Mrs S had been given a 
clear choice in 1993. BoS replied that it was only able to assess the case with the evidence 
available and it could not make assumptions in the absence of evidence. It did not offer any 
explanation of the second point  that is, how it had satisfied itself that Mrs S had been given 
a choice about the PPI. 
I also note that, in 1992, Mrs S cancelled the previous PPI policy. It seems a little unusual 
that she would take out a new policy in 1993. I accept that Mrs S could have changed her 
mind and followed a recommendation to take PPI again the following year, but the 
information I have suggests no major change in her circumstances  I understand that she 
had given up the second job noted on the 1991 application form, but the figures stated 
suggest that this was a relatively small part of her income. And in 1993 Mrs S was not 
substantially increasing her borrowing  the further advance was just over £5,000.
Taking everything together, Im not satisfied I can fairly say its more likely than not that Mrs 
S was given a clear choice about taking the PPI in 1993 - Mrs S said she was not, and BoS 
has not explained how it satisfied itself that she was. This is enough, in itself, for me to 
uphold a complaint, and I said in my provisional decision that I had concluded that this 
complaint should be upheld. BoS accepted my provisional decision, and so my conclusions 
remain unchanged - I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
BoS should put Mrs S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the PPI. The 
policy has been cancelled, so BoS should:
Pay Mrs S the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. BoS can also take off the amount it has already paid to 
Mrs S in relation to commission. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Bank of Scotland 
plc should pay her the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman