DRN-2768886
The complaint
Miss A has complained that a credit search carried out by Santander UK Plc during an 
abortive mortgage application has affected her credit score. As a result, Miss A says she is 
unable to risk applying for another mortgage, due to the impact Santanders actions have 
had on her credit file. Miss A would like Santander to remove the search from her credit 
history.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss A wanted to buy a property and applied to Santander for a mortgage. 
As part of the application process, Santander carried out a credit search. In May 2020 
Miss A wanted to amend the loan amount.
Miss A says the mortgage adviser at Santander assured her there would not be another 
credit search carried out. However, in November 2020 Miss A found out that this was not the 
case and that Santander had carried out another credit search and she says this has 
adversely affected her credit score. 
Miss As purchase didnt go ahead but Miss A say she is now reluctant to apply for another 
mortgage. Miss A has told us that she spent a great deal of time building up her credit score, 
but because Santander carried out a second credit search in May 2020, she feels that this 
will impact on any future application with another lender.
After Miss A complained to Santander in November 2020 the bank looked into what had 
happened, but didnt uphold the complaint. Santander said that, due to the passage of time, 
the adviser couldnt remember the specific conversation with Miss A. But the adviser did 
confirm that she knew Santanders policy is that another credit search is carried out if the 
previous one was more than 60 days ago and there is a material change in the application 
(as there was in this case, as Miss A was asking to borrow more money). Given this, 
Santander was satisfied the adviser would not have told Miss A something different.
Santander said it was a valid search, and so Santander wasnt willing to remove this from 
Miss As credit file.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Miss A complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied Santander was entitled to carry out a second credit search in May 2020. He also 
wasnt persuaded the adviser had told Miss A that a second search wouldnt be done.
Miss A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She has confirmed that her reason 
for wanting the complaint reviewed is that she doesnt think Santander should be allowed to 
give out false information, whether this be in error or due to process. Miss A says that the 
second search in May 2020 was carried out without her consent and when she was 
specifically told otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. 
The issue in this complaint is a very narrow one  was Miss A told in May 2020 that 
Santander would carry out a second credit search or not? On the one hand, Miss A has very 
specific recall of the conversation with the adviser. Miss A confirms she asked if another 
credit search would be carried out, and was assured by the mortgage adviser that it would 
not. On the other hand, although the adviser couldnt in November 2020 recall a 
conversation shed had with Miss A six months earlier, she was aware that it was 
Santanders policy to require a fresh credit search if the last one had been carried out more 
than 60 days ago, and there was a material change in the application.
What I have here are two very different versions of what was discussed. As the party 
bringing the complaint, Miss As version of events has to be more likely than Santanders, if 
Im to uphold the complaint. But after looking at the evidence, Im not persuaded that what 
Miss A says is the more likely version of events. I say this because the adviser has 
confirmed that she knew about Santanders policy in relation to carrying out another credit 
search. Given this, I think its unlikely shed have told Miss A something that was untrue and 
incorrect, when this would have easily come to light as soon as Miss A checked her credit 
file. It wasnt until six months after the conversation with the adviser in May 2020 that Miss A 
did, in fact, check her credit file and noticed her score had dropped. Miss As provided no 
evidence to persuade me that this is solely attributable to the credit search carried out by 
Santander in May 2020. In the circumstances, Im unable to find Santander has done 
anything wrong here.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss A wanted, and I understand her anxiety about applying for 
another mortgage. Miss A might find it helpful to speak to an independent mortgage broker, 
who will be able to look at Miss As overall situation and advise her about her mortgage 
options. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman