DRN-3511398
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim for 
subsidence under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout. 
References I make to Mr H and UKI include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill provide a summary here.
In 2017, Mr H noticed cracking to the extension of his property and sometime later 
made a claim on his buildings insurance. UKI accepted the claim and undertook 
remedial work. Unhappy with various aspects of how UKI handled the claim, Mr H 
made a number of complaints to UKI over the following years.
He made a further complaint in October 2021 about the fitting of doors and further 
delays. UKI apologised and awarded £250 in compensation.
Our Investigator considered the evidence, upheld the complaint and told UKI to pay 
an additional £500 for the further delays and the inconvenience it caused. UKI 
thought this was too much but this didnt change our Investigators mind so the 
complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H made three previous complaints about various aspects of UKIs poor claim 
handling, unnecessary delays and the distress and inconvenience these all caused 
him. UKI apologised and paid compensation for the various things it got wrong. 
Mr H understands these previous complaints werent raised with this Service within 
the required timescales so arent something we have the power to consider.
So my decision focuses on UKIs actions from February 2021  when it issued its 
previous final response  to October 2021 when it responded to Mr Hs most recent 
concerns. Our Investigator detailed a timeline of this complaint so I dont propose to 
repeat that here.
The replacement door
There were multiple failed attempts at fitting a new door at the property. These 
included one of the doors being bowed through incorrect storage, an incorrectly sized 
replacement door being ordered and then the further replacement being damaged 
and requiring repairs which Mr H refused, understandably, in my view.
Eventually the door was fitted but this had taken approximately six months. UKI says 
some of the causes of the delay were out of its hands, for example, due to 
manufacturing lead times. But even if it had problems with its suppliers, Mr H still 
experienced an unacceptable level of service and unnecessarily long delays. 
I understand why this would have caused him distress and inconvenience over this 
extended period of time and Ill be keeping this in mind when deciding on the award 
UKI must pay him.
Failed works by previous contractor 
Mr H identified the pointing of the bricks installed by UKIs contractor had started to 
crumble and needed to be addressed. Despite Mr H pointing this out to UKI it was 
slow to make arrangements for the remedial work to be undertaken. 
It says this was partly due to a problem with computer systems and so something it 
didnt have control over. But even if it did have problems with computer systems, 
Mr H was still left uncertain about when the appointment would be booked and the 
work undertaken. 
It still took more than two months and some proactive contact with UKI on Mr Hs part 
for the problems with the pointing to be rectified. 
This all added to the distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced.
UKI said it had already paid compensation for the poor work undertaken by its 
contractors under a previous complaint. But the problems with the pointing were 
discovered some time after this and so werent covered by that previous complaint or 
award. 
So Ill be considering the impact of these problems when deciding on the award I 
direct UKI to make.
Putting things right
Overall, Ive concluded UKI failed its duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and hasnt 
done enough to recognise this.
I have to keep in mind here this is the fourth time Mr H has felt he had to complain to UKI 
about how his claim was being handled. I acknowledge UKI has already responded and 
dealt with the previous three complaints and has paid compensation for its poor handling. 
And while I wont be awarding compensation for issues raised with us too late, I have kept in 
mind the impact of having repeated incidents of poor service is likely to cause each 
subsequent one to be more stressful to deal with due to the cumulative inconvenience and 
frustration. So, by the fourth complaint, the impact on Mr H is likely to be significantly 
greater.
Ive thought about this very carefully and having done so, Ive decided UKI should pay Mr 
and Mrs H an additional £500 on top of the £250 its already paid them, for all the reasons 
Ive described above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H an additional £500 in addition to the £250 its paid them already.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman