DRN-3728504
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his request to buy bitcoin, and this 
caused him to lose out on a financial opportunity.
What happened
Mr P planned to invest in bitcoin and make purchases via a Nationwide CHAPS payment. 
His initial purchase was to be for Euros 50000, and this was a time sensitive transaction due 
to a heavily discounted initial public offering. 
As Nationwide had concerns about completing this transaction it was necessary for Mr P to 
make several visits to the branch. As Mr P had conversations about the risks and signed a 
disclaimer, he gained the impression that Nationwide would go ahead with the CHAPS 
payment. However, this was not the case and Nationwide decided to decline the transaction.
Mr P complained as he felt Nationwide shouldve told him that they werent willing to process 
his transaction at an earlier stage and their delay and refusal stopped him making other 
arrangements.
Mr P complained to Nationwide, but they said they had concerns, were acting in line with 
their terms and conditions and in Mr Ps best interests.
Mr P complained to our service as he felt Nationwide didnt have any intention to process his 
bitcoin transaction and their delay in telling him this, led to a financial loss for which he 
requires compensation.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to reimburse him for any 
investment losses he suffered but thought Nationwide should pay £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience of being insufficiently clear that the requested payments were unlikely to be 
processed. 
As Mr P remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer, the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. And the bank has a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care when making a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the transaction is a scam. Given the 
banks obligations to protect its customers from potential fraud or scams, it might also be 
expected to make reasonable enquiries including  but not limited to  the circumstances 
surrounding the payment instruction. Against that, the bank has a contractual duty to 
execute a valid and proper order to execute its customers instruction. If it doesnt do so 
promptly, its liable for any consequential loss to its customer. This is essentially the basis of 
Mr Ps case.
Here, Mr P had money deposited with Nationwide. He then instructed them to make a 
CHAPS payment but Nationwide fraud detection systems blocked the payment and flagged 
it for further verification checks and branch staff put him through to a financial crime 
representative. I think this was reasonable and what Id expect a responsible bank to do, and 
it would be wrong if I were to say that Nationwide acted unreasonably here. And from 
listening to Mr Ps call with the financial crime representative on 4 September 2022, I think 
he appreciated the conversation and advice he was given.
Mr P was put through to the banks financial crime team and spoke to an adviser 
knowledgeable in crypto currency fraud and scams. The adviser explained the purpose of 
the call was to protect Mr P, relay genuine risks and give Mr P the chance to contemplate 
whether to proceed. During the call he asked probing questions about Mr Ps planned crypto 
currency transaction and when Mr P explained his plans and diligence checks the adviser 
furnished him with information on scams and the risks Mr P would be exposing himself to. 
Towards the end of the call, he told Mr P that he didnt think he was at imminent risk of being 
scammed but likened his proposed transaction to a gamble. The adviser concluded by 
saying that it was Mr Ps personal decision whether or not to go ahead and his account 
would be unblocked.
However, the Nationwide deputy manager whose role was to approve the transaction, 
remained concerned about the risk Mr P was exposing himself to and feared it was a scam. 
She had been under the impression Mr P was contemplating the transaction following the 
fraud advice, but when Mr P still wanted to progress, she decided to escalate her concerns 
back to the fraud department.
I requested information to understand her escalation and the subsequent refusal decision, 
following a confidential risk assessment discussion with a seemingly more senior fraud 
adviser on 16 September 2022. Although neither party appeared to have a full report of the 
conversation Mr P had already had with the fraud adviser on 4 September 2022, their 
discussion centred around protecting Mr P from a scam or fraud. And Im satisfied this 
caused the inconsistency here. 
This is because they couldnt be satisfied over risks, and they felt there was a significant risk 
and reasonable grounds to decline the transaction. And I think it more likely than not that, 
even with the insight from the first fraud advisers conversation with Mr P, it wouldve still 
been determined that there was a significant risk here. 
The Nationwide manager felt there were red flags and viewed it as a super risky 
transaction and Im satisfied that central to the joint decision was a duty of care to protect 
Mr P and his funds. 
Also, there wouldve been a nervousness because the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
have commented that such transactions pose a significant risk to consumers and other risks 
in relation to financial crime and money laundering requirements.
So, I think Nationwides decision to prevent the transaction was fair as they had reasonable 
grounds to believe there was a risk and they were protecting Mr P and they were exercising 
a duty of care. Also, Im satisfied that they were acting within their terms and conditions.Although I thought it was a fair and reasonable decision, I think there was both an 
inconsistency and delay in their communication. However, I dont think they deliberately 
gave Mr P the run around, never intending to carry out his instruction from the start. I think 
they thought that, by presenting the risks, Mr P would be deterred and, when this didnt 
happen, they further considered the risks. 
So, I considered Mr Ps point that had the transaction been declined at an earlier stage he 
couldve gone elsewhere. Also, what is likely to have happened had he then been able to 
conduct the transaction.
I think it more likely than not that for the same duty of care reasons Mr P wouldve struggled 
to complete the transaction elsewhere. Also, if he had been able to, the on-file analysis, 
shows its more likely than not that he wouldve been exposed to a significant loss here. I say 
this because there was only a short time frame during which the tokens value remained 
above the starting price, and it wouldve been difficult to accurately predict the movement of 
such a volatile market.
I appreciate Mr P doesnt see it this way, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask Nationwide to pay investment compensation when they acted to protect Mr P, and it was 
more likely than not that he otherwise wouldve faced a sizeable loss here.
However, I do think that Nationwides inconsistency and delay caused Mr P both distress 
and inconvenience so I think compensation should be awarded in this case. And when 
considering the delay, branch visits and length of calls I think £300 is a fair and reasonable 
award.
My final decision
Its my final decision to partially uphold this complaint and I require Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr P £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman