DRN-4189709
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc voided their policy and refused to pay 
their claim following the theft of jewellery from their home.
Mr and Mrs S had contents insurance with Covea in joint names. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer mainly to Mrs S throughout my decision.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs S bought contents insurance, underwritten by Covea, using an online 
comparison site. The policy automatically renewed each year.
A significant amount of jewellery was stolen from Mrs Ss home during a burglary. She 
claimed under the policy and Covea arranged for a loss adjuster to visit and a jewellery 
valuation.
Covea said Mrs S was underinsured for the jewellery and it wouldnt have offered her a 
policy if shed declared the full value. It considered this a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation which entitled it to refuse the claim and void the policy.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. Our investigator 
agreed with Covea that thered been a qualifying misrepresentation, and with its 
classification of careless. Therefore, our investigator thought Covea was entitled to void the 
policy and decline the claim, and she agreed that all premiums should be returned to Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said shed never been 
asked to value her jewellery, she didnt think Coveas valuation was correct, and she didnt 
think it was fair to interpret ambiguous policy terms in Coveas favour.
So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she didnt disclose the full value of her jewellery at each policy renewal.
Ive looked at the statement of insurance to see what level of cover Mrs S asked for. She 
bought contents cover up to a maximum of £50,000 and unspecified high-risk items up to a 
maximum of £5,000. Jewellery is defined in the policy documents as a high-risk item.
In response to the question about whether Mrs S wanted to insure specified high-risk items, 
she included her gold jewellery up to £10,000. The policy renewed each year, but the 
evidence doesnt show that any changes were made to the level of cover.
 
Covea provided two professional valuations of the jewellery collection, both of which 
exceeded £50,000. Mrs Ss list was based on other currencies but converted to significantly 
less than the professional valuations.
Given that the total contents cover was for less than the professional valuation of the 
jewellery, its reasonable that Covea concluded Mrs S was underinsured. Even taking just 
Mrs Ss list into consideration, the total exceeds the maximum high-risk cover, and the 
evidence confirms that there were further items which werent stolen, valued at over £7,000.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she took out cover for high-risk jewellery up to a value of £10,000.
So, Ive thought about whether Mrs Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one  that is, 
would it have made any difference. Ive looked at the criteria Coveas underwriters provided. 
I can see that if Mrs S had disclosed the full value of the high-risk items, Covea wouldnt 
have offered cover at all. The value of her jewellery exceeds Coveas maximum high-risk 
cover. Im afraid I cant provide too much detail here because it is commercially sensitive 
information. However, I trust that Mrs S will be reassured that Ive seen the details and Im 
satisfied Covea wouldnt have offered cover at all.
That means, the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Covea classed the misrepresentation as a careless one. Treating it as careless is the most 
favourable outcome to Mrs S so I cant say that Covea treated her unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA. Covea is entitled to avoid the policy from 
the start, return any unused premiums, and treat the policy as if it never existed and not deal 
with claims. I can see that Covea avoided the policy, returned Mrs Ss premiums from the 
date she first bought the policy, and refused to pay her claim. As Covea acted in accordance 
with CIDRA, Im satisfied that the outcome was fair and reasonable.
Other matters
Ive considered the additional points Mr and Mrs S made in respect of their complaint. They 
said decisions about a contract should be in favour of the party which didnt write it. In 
particular, Mrs S mentioned having up to date valuations of jewellery she couldnt possibly 
know would be stolen. If there is a lack of clarity, then I agree that might be a reasonable way to address any disputed issues. So Ive looked at what information was available to Mrs 
S in the documentation
The policy states:
Very important notice
The value of some of your personal possessions, particularly jewellery and other high risk 
property, is likely to fluctuate considerably. Individual articles, pairs or sets valued at or 
over £1,500 should be specified separately. You should review the value of these items 
regularly and insure each item for the full replacement cost; seek professional advice if 
necessary. If the value of any of these items changes, please let us know.
In the event of a claim, you will need to provide a professional valuation, receipt or proof 
of purchase predating the loss as proof of value and ownership. Your insurer may not 
meet your claim, or the amount of the claim may be reduced if you cannot provide such 
proof or if the items are not insured for their full replacement cost.
The policy renewal documents state:
It is important that the information you provide throughout the quote and duration of the 
policy is accurate. Failure to disclose correct and complete information to the best of your 
knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being 
fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null & void and treated as if it never 
existed.
I understand that Mr S added to the jewellery collection over the years, and he didnt have 
receipts for every item. However, Im satisfied that the terms of the policy were clear, 
including the level of cover, so I cant reasonably say that Covea interpreted the policy 
unfairly.
Mrs S commented that she thinks Covea believes the break-in was a staged act. For 
reassurance, I havent noted anything in the loss adjuster notes to suggest there was any 
question about the validity of the circumstances of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman