DRN-3272855
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited (Barclays) 
didnt tell her the terms of her mobile phone insurance policy had changed. She said 
that, as a result, she couldnt make a successful claim on it.
What happened
Barclays sold Miss P a mobile phone policy in 2016 which renewed each year. In 2021 the 
insurer providing the cover (the insurer) changed. Later that year Miss P tried to claim on her 
policy. The insurer told her that her phone wasnt covered because it was too expensive. In 
other words it was outside the policy limits for cover. It declined her claim. Miss P 
complained. She said Barclays hadnt told her that the insurer was changing or that the 
terms and conditions had altered so that she was no longer eligible to claim on her policy.
Miss P brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong. Miss P didnt agree so the complaint's been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Miss Ps policy has a term which explains that phones which cost more than £1,500 won't be 
covered by it. And, as Miss Ps phone cost around £2,000, when she tried to make a claim, 
the insurer told her she wasnt covered. Miss P believes that this upper limit for the value of 
cover was introduced when the new insurer started providing the cover in 2021. She thinks 
Barclays didnt do enough to tell her about the change in insurer or the change to the terms 
of her policy, which meant her phone was no longer covered. But I think shes mistaken.
It might help if I explain that Barclays is an insurance broker and intermediary. That means it 
sells policies and may help with their admin but it doesnt provide the cover itself. That is 
provided by the insurer which underwrites the policy.
Miss P took out her initial policy in 2016. At that time it was underwritten by another insurer. 
The terms of that policy clearly said that handsets over a value of £1,000 would not be 
covered. In November 2017 Barclays wrote to Miss P to say that some of the terms of her 
policy were changing. One of those changes was that the maximum value of a phone the 
policy would cover was increasing to £1,500. 
Barclays sent Miss P "eligibility statements for her policy each year between 2018 and 
2021. Those set out the key criteria that Miss P needed to be able to meet in order to make 
a successful claim. Each one of those statements told her that the maximum value of a 
phone that the policy would cover was £1,500. And that remained the same when the new 
insurer took over the cover in 2021. So its not the case that the upper limit of the value of 
the phone changed when the insurer took over the cover. It remained the same as the cover 
offered by the previous insurer. And this limit for the value of the phone was clear in the 
documents Barclays sent to Miss P from 2017 onwards.
Miss Ps told us that shed been able to register her phone with the previous insurer. So she 
thinks that insurer would have covered a claim for her phone. But my understanding is that 
while Miss P was able to register the phones identifying number for cover with the previous 
insurer, at that time, she wasnt asked to give its purchase price. And registering the phone 
didnt guarantee that it would be covered in the event of a claim, only that the insurer knew 
Miss P owned the handset. So the previous insurer didnt know that Miss Ps phone was 
outside of its cover limit. And its likely that, had she needed to make a claim from the 
previous insurer, it would have told her that her phone wasnt covered for the same reason 
as the new insurer. But that would have been a matter for the previous insurer to address 
and not Barclays.
Miss Ps also said that Barclays didnt tell her that the policy insurer had changed. But 
Barclays has shown us that it wrote to her in February 2021 to tell her about the change of 
insurer. And it set out the key changes to the policy terms in that letter. Its notable that the 
letter didnt refer to a change in the maximum value of the phones the insurer would cover - 
because that hadnt changed from the previous insurer. I understand Miss P didnt receive 
that letter. But Barclays isnt responsible for the postal system. And, in any event, it also 
made the insurance documents available to Miss P through her online portal, so she could 
have read about the change of insurer there. So I dont think it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman