DRN-3354726
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was provided at a time when he was already struggling and placed him into 
further hardship.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr W with a loan for £2,800.00 in October 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £178. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mr W with this loan. So he thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our adjudicators assessment. I find Avant Credits lack of a 
response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. 
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Avant Credit obtained when it provided this loan 
in an attempt to determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Mr W was asked to provide 
copies of bank statements, which he did. The statements provided clearly show that Mr W 
was in a cycle of payday and other high-cost lending. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr W has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could been taking these loans through choice rather 
than because he was struggling, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments 
from Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ws version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ws existing debts and the cycle of borrowing he was 
already in meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without 
undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should 
have extended into finding out about Mr Ws income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they 
would more like than not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to 
Mr W. As Avant Credit provided Mr W with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr W has ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of 
what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr W by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr W made, to Avant Credit (and any debt purchaser since the account 
was sold), should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2.800.00 
originally lent. If Mr W has already repaid more than £2,800.00 then Avant Credit 
should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Mr W;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr W to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from to third-party debt purchaser it sold his 
debt to), and its the case that Mr W is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman