DRN-3910293
The complaint
Ms A complains through a representative that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms A took a total of four loans from Morses between October 2016 and November 2021. A 
summary of her total borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
paymentsweekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 18/10/2016 19/01/2017 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 19/01/2017 06/07/2017 33 £15.00
3 £450.00 06/07/2017 31/10/2017 33 £22.50
break in lending
4 £600.00 11/11/2021 16/12/2021 35 £30.00
Morses considered Ms As complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) in June 2022
which it explained why it wasnt upholding her complaint. It is worth saying here, that this
response only dealt with one loan  loan 4. Ms As representative didnt agree, and the
complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who explained, that based on the
information provided, loans 1  3 had already been investigated and were now settled. So,
she went on to consider loan 4.
The adjudicator concluded loan 4 ought not to have been provided because based on the
income and expenditure information, along with the credit check results, it seems Ms A had
under-reported her monthly credit commitments  and so, this likely showed Morses she was
having problems managing her money.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Ive summarised its response
below.
At the time of loan 4, Ms A had around £3,700 of outstanding credit  which Morses 
says isnt excessive.
There was no evidence in the credit search results of repayment plans, insolvencies 
or County Court Judgements.
While Morses was aware of four accounts that had been marked as being in default, 
the most recent of these was defaulted 20 months before the loan was approved. 
However, the evidence suggests, the default had been satisfied.
Morses checked the accuracy of Ms As declared income with a credit reference 
agency.
The affordability assessment for loan 4, showed the loan to be affordable.
Ms A settled loan 4 significantly, earlier than contracted.
Ms As representative confirmed receipt of the assessment but didnt have anything further 
to add.
However, after the complaint was passed for a decision, further enquires were made with
Morses about loans 1  3. This was done, because it was clear, based on Ms As
representative complaint letter that they wanted all the loans to be considered. In addition,
Ms As representative informed us that Ms A said she hadnt received the first FRL Morses 
said it had sent for loans 1  3 in August 2020.
Morses then said, loans 1  3 couldnt be considered because the complaint about these
loans had been referred here too late after the first FRL was sent in August 2020.
The adjudicator explained to Morses the 2020 FRL wasnt likely received by Ms A because it
was dispatched to an incorrect address. However, it did seem, a complaint was raised with
the Financial Ombudsman in September 2020 by Ms A about loans 1  3. So, in the
adjudicators view, the complaint wasnt outside of the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Following the involvement of our external liaison team, Morses provided us, with what I
consider to be a full case file for loans 1  3. Im therefore satisfied that it is happy for the
Financial Ombudsman Service to consider, under this complaint, all the loans provided to
Ms A.
As this was the case, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think Morses had 
made an error when it advanced loans 1  3. However, I still thought Morses hadnt made a 
fair lending decision when it advanced loan 4. So, Ms As complaint was partly upheld. A 
copy of my provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
In response to the provisional decision, Ms A and Morses were asked to provide anything 
else for consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 18 January 2023. 
Morses emailed the Financial Ombudsman to let us know it had nothing further to add.
Neither Ms A nor her representative have provided anything further for consideration. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms A could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms As
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms A. These factors include:
Ms A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make anyloan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms A.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms A could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms A was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms As complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan Ms A declared she had a weekly income of around £490 (made up of wages,
benefits and other) with outgoings of £199. This left around £291 per week to make the
weekly repayment of £15. Morses says for this loan it saw evidence of her income  but it
hasnt told us what the evidence was or provided a copy of it.
Based solely on the information Ms A declared to Morses, it was reasonable for Morses to
have concluded Ms A would be able to afford her weekly repayment of £15.
Morses has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying here that although Morses
carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a
specific standard.
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Morses received may not have entirely
reflected the information Ms A may be able to view on the credit report that has been
provided to us. There could be for several reasons for this, such as Morses only asking for
certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit accounts. But what Morses
cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received.
This means I wont be considering the credit report which Ms As representative has
provided. This is because, Morses carried out its own credit search and received the results.
In that situation I think its entirely reasonable to see what Morses was told and whether the
information it received ought to have alerted it to consider anything else.
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied it was aware of some adverse
information. It knew that Ms A had five defaults recorded on her credit file of which four had
been settled. However, the most recent of these defaults had been recorded 15 months
before this loan was approved. In my view, this isnt enough, on its own to uphold the
complaint because the defaults suggest that in the past Ms A had financial difficulties but
there werent any obvious signs that she was experiencing difficulties in the lead up to the
loan being approved.The credit check results, also showed Morses, that she £4,751 of outstanding debt across
11 active credit accounts. However, there were no other signs of financial difficulties such as
accounts subject to payment arrangements or County Court Judgements (CCJ).
There are some negative indicators in Ms As credit check such as the defaults but overall
there doesnt seem to me, enough to indicate that Ms A was likely having financial
difficulties.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and there was also nothing else in
the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to believe that it needed to go further
with its checks  such as verifying the information Ms A had provided. In addition, there
wasnt anything, as far as I can see which wouldve suggested the loan was unsustainable
for her.
I intend to not uphold Ms As complaint about loan 1.
Loans 2 and 3
Similar checks were carried out by Morses before loans 2 and 3 were approved. Expect this
time, no further credit checks were carried out. As Ive said above, there was no requirement
for Morses to have carried out a credit search, so the fact one wasnt carried out for these
two loans wouldnt be a reason, on its own to uphold these loans.
For loan 2, Ms A declared the same income and expenditure information as she did for loan
1. And so, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have believed  given the weekly
repayments were the same, that Ms A could afford her repayments.
For loan 3, Ms As declared income had decreased to £364 per week with a slight decrease
in her weekly expenditure to £191. This left, around £173 per week in disposable income in
which to afford her repayment of £20.50.
I have thought about that these loans were taken in a consecutive manner, with the capital
balances increasing each time. Although he weekly repayment only increases between
loans 2 and 3.
But the fact both of these loans were repaid earlier than Morses had anticipated and looking at the 
statement of account there doesnt appear to have been any repayment problems. So, I dont think at 
this time, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have carried out further checks such as reviewing 
her bank statements.
It was entitled to rely on the information it was provided which showed the loans were likely
to be affordable for Ms A. There also wasnt anything else, that I can see that may have led
Morses to believe these loans were unsustainable for Ms A.
So, I consider the checks Morses carried out to be proportionate, which showed it that Ms A
was likely to be in a position to afford these loan repayments.
I am therefore intending to not uphold Ms As complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Loan 4
There was then a four-year gap between Ms A settling loan 3 and returning for loan 4. In my
view, this gap is more than enough for Morses to have treated Ms A as if she was new
customer. As a result of treating Ms A as a new customer, this has a bearing on what a
proportionate check maybe. In short, while this was loan 4, it was in effect loan 1 in a new
chain of lending.
As part of Ms As application, she declared to Morses that her weekly income was £326, and
Morse says this was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. I havent been
provided with the result of that check, but given the loan was approved, it is likely Morsesconsidered the income declared to be accurate.
In addition, Ms A declared weekly outgoings of £266.50. which left her £59.50 weekly
disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £30. I think its fair to say, that the
affordability of this loan appears significantly tighter than the previous loans Ms A had taken.
However, Morses has said, that as the loan was approved after 20 June 2019, the following
applied.
 we used figures from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and pre-populated
minimum figures for expenditure which included rent, council tax, utilities, insurance,
transport, groceries, media and childcare. We also pre-populated the payments she
made toward creditors by using information provided by [credit reference agency].
Miss A [full name removed] confirmed she had no transport costs as she walked to
work and had no childcare costs.
However, Morses hasnt provided information as to which of the possible expenditure areas
(such as rent, food etc) were pre-populated or which ones it used the declared information
given to it by Ms A.
So, for example, was Ms As utility weekly spend of £25 what she declared or was the ONS
suggested amount used. No further information has been provided. So, I can only rely on
the summary provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service as to what was declared.
Having done so, as Ive said above, after the loan repayment Ms A wouldve only been left
with £29.50 per week to cover any unexpected expenses.
In addition to asking about Ms As income and expenditure, as part of the assessment for
this loan, Morses carried out a credit search and it has provided the full results to the
Financial Ombudsman. The same caveats as outlined under loan 1 apply here to credit files.
The credit results showed the following.
4 accounts in default, but all had been satisfied. With the most recent of the accounts being 
defaulted 20 months before this loan was approved.
8 open credit accounts with a total outstanding balance of £3,725.
There were also indicators that Ms A was regularly seeking to open new credit facilities  she 
had opened two new accounts in the previous three months, and four accounts in the last 
six.
Morses was also on notice that she already had outstanding balances of £1,229 due
to other home credit provider(s).
However, I do think the credit check results showed that Ms A was unlikely to be able to
afford the repayments to this loan in a sustainable manner. As part of the application
process Ms A told Morses she had existing credit commitments of around £68 per week. But
the credit search showed these monthly commitments came to £579 per month which if
broken down to a weekly figure is around £133. This is significantly more than what has
been reported and used by Morses as part of its affordability assessment.
It would therefore seem, that Ms As weekly credit commitments were significantly under
reported  by nearly 50%. Had Morses used the weekly figure of £133  which is what I think
it ought to have done here as it was the amount provided to it by the credit reference
agency. It wouldve likely concluded that Ms A couldnt afford the loan repayments because
she was already overstretched with her other creditors and didnt any disposable income in
which to make these repayments.
Im therefore intending to uphold loan 4 and Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in
order to put things right for Ms A.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses has explained it has nothing further to add and weve not heard from Ms A or her 
representative. 
As nothing new has been provided for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I made in the provisional decision and which Ive repeated above. I still dont 
think Morses made an unreasonable decision to provide loans 1  3. But the information 
Morses had from Ms A as well as its credit search results indicated she didnt have any 
disposable income in which to meet her loans repayments for loan 4. 
Morses shouldnt have granted loan 4 and Ive outlined below what it should do in order to 
put things right for Ms A.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had Morses not lent loan 4 to Ms A, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms A may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms A loan 4.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 4.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms A originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms A the total of A and B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms A credit file in 
relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms As 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms A as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman