DRN-3644756
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him without due cause. 
What happened
In January 2017, HSBC received an application for an account in Mr Gs name. It said there 
were discrepancies within that application  namely contradictory information within his 
address history. Credit checks showed that there was adverse credit information at an 
address which was not disclosed on the application in Mr Gs name. So, referred Mr G to 
Cifas who registered a fraud prevention marker against Mr G. 
Mr G said he did not make the application and was not aware of it at the time it was made. 
He explained that a few years previously he had stayed in temporary accommodation when 
he was renovating his property, and he thinks that when he was there an unknown person 
attempted to open the account in his name. 
When Mr G complained to HSBC about the Cifas marker, they reviewed what had 
happened. They said they had acted correctly in rejecting the application and referring the 
matter to Cifas because they felt he had made the application and that he had been 
dishonest in his account application. This was because: 
This attempted account opening was the subject of a previous complaint made to our 
service  but specifically asking that the credit check conducted was removed from 
his credit file as Mr G said he did not attempt to open the account. Our service 
concluded that it was most likely that the attempted account opening was genuinely 
done by Mr G.
When HSBC reviewed the application, they found that the applicant had failed to 
disclose an address linked to Mr G where he had adverse credit information listed 
against him which they considered to be a material misrepresentation which had to 
be reported to Cifas. 
Mr G was dissatisfied, so he came to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
had happened and recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. They agreed that 
HSBC had met the relevant standard of proof required to refer Mr G to Cifas for application 
fraud. Mr G remained unhappy. He did not say specifically what he disagreed with but asked 
that an ombudsman reconsider the outcome of the complaint. So, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The marker that HSBC asked Cifas to apply is for application fraud. For HSBC to record this, 
they are expected to demonstrate that they have clear, relevant and rigorous evidence to 
show that during the application process one of more material falsehoods were submitted by 
Mr G, for the purpose of obtaining a benefit. They dont have to show that a fraud or financial 
crime has been committed, say, beyond reasonable doubt. But they must demonstrate that 
there are sufficient grounds to believe a financial crime has been attempted or committed  
mere suspicion or concern is not enough. 
The first matter I would normally consider here is whether the evidence suggests it is more 
likely than not that Mr G completed the application  something which he disputes having 
done. But I am in the unusual position of considering a complaint where this specific matter  
that of whether Mr G tried to open this account - has already been decided by our service in 
a previous final decision, albeit in relation to a complaint about a credit check being run. And 
in this decision one of our ombudsmen said Ive seen what Mr G said about the application 
but I havent seen anything to show this wasnt a genuine application. And there has been 
no material new evidence provided such that I may be able to reconsider this opinion. So, it 
is the decided position of this service that it was most likely that Mr G made the application 
himself. 
So, the matter that remains for me to decide is whether the inaccuracies and inconsistencies 
amount to material falsehoods intended to assist in accessing a financial product; or whether 
they were more likely to have been innocent mistakes. HSBCs evidence provided shows 
that the marker was loaded due to a failure to disclose previous addresses where there was 
adverse credit information registered against Mr G. As Mr G maintains he didnt complete 
the application, he has been unable to provide us with any legitimate reason why he may 
have omitted this information from the application. And so on balance, I think the most likely 
reason anyone would omit address history with adverse credit information in such 
circumstances would be in order to hide that information so that they would be more likely to 
be approved for a financial product. So I do think that on the evidence available, it was fair 
and reasonable for HSBC to conclude that there were inaccuracies amounting to material 
falsehoods in the application  and so by extension I think they acted fairly and reasonably in 
referring Mr G to Cifas and will not be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman