DRN-3764026
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss P opened a credit card account with Sainsburys in December 2010. Her credit limit 
was initially £1,850. In June 2012 Miss Ps credit limit was increased to £2,450. Ten months 
later in April 2013 it was increased to £3,250. Finally, in April 2014 it was increased to 
£4,450. 
Miss P says that Sainsburys acted irresponsibly by providing her with the credit card and 
when it increased her limit. She says she was in an abusive relationship and her partner 
forced her to take out the credit. She was also experiencing a trauma response to that 
relationship which caused her mental health problems. Miss P says she was only receiving 
state benefits at the time she took out the card and that she was in a lot of debt elsewhere. 
She says if Sainsburys had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that 
she wouldnt be able to repay her balance in a reasonable length of time
. 
Sainsburys says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss P and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Miss P  and when it increased her credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld from the point at which 
her credit limit was increased to £2,450 in June 2012. She thought that there was sufficient 
evidence available to Sainsburys at that point for it to understand that Miss P was in a poor 
financial position and unlikely to be able to sustainably repay any more borrowing. 
Sainsburys disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of 
any financial strain.
As Sainsburys disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Ps complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with our investigators view. That view was provided to both parties and is 
extremely comprehensive. In response to that view Sainsburys suggests there is no 
evidence to support the investigators findings. 
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ps income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sainsburys should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss P. These factors include 
things like understanding Miss Ps income, the total amount Miss P borrowed, and the length 
of time Miss P had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Sainsburys says it completed credit reference checks at the point of opening the credit card 
account in 2010. It says this didnt show any issues. It says it also considered the amount of 
existing debt Miss P had elsewhere and that this showed she had only £250 of extra 
borrowing elsewhere. Sainsburys hasnt provided evidence of these checks, or the results of 
them. It has supplied a copy of Miss Ps application form in which she said that she had an 
income of £24,000.
 
It seems that this may not have been accurate as Miss P has also provided evidence that 
shows she was receiving Employment Support Allowance (ESA) at the time of application 
and in the months leading up to it, which indicates she probably wasnt in full time 
employment. Sainsburys was entitled to rely on the information Miss P gave it at the time of 
her application. However, Miss P has also provided information which suggests that the 
stated outcome of Sainsburys check on her external credit cant be relied upon. From 
information supplied by Miss P I can see that in December 2010 she had a very high 
balance on other credit cards  at least £20,000. In December 2010 her accounts were in 
arrears with another lender and she had exceeded her credit limit. I appreciate that this 
information may not have fed through onto credit reference agencies systems by the time of 
Miss Ps application and it is only for this reason that I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint 
from the point of the account opening. In making this decision I have also taken into account 
that while Miss P had very high credit balances elsewhere, she had also told Sainsburys 
she had a much higher income.
 
Sainsburys increased Miss Ps credit limit in June 2012. It says that it did all the checks it 
should have done to make sure the increase was affordable for Miss P. Again, it hasnt been 
able to show evidence of the results of those checks.
 
Miss P has provided information which shows that her financial situation had not improved. 
She was using her Sainsburys card almost exclusively to move substantial debt around 
through balance transfers. Her external unsecured debt was over £40,000 in June 2011 and 
I have no evidence to suggest this had changed substantially by June 2012. By this point, 
any credit checks completed by Sainsburys should have shown a very different picture to 
that at the point of account opening, including in relation to her income. 
As Sainsburys have not been able to provide copies of the checks it did, I prefer to rely on 
the information provided by Miss P. And while I appreciate that Sainsburys thinks there were 
no signs of distress on Miss Ps Sainsburys account I think the activity on the account  the 
multiple balance transfers  should have alerted Sainsburys to the possibility Miss P had 
significant debt elsewhere, even if the checks it says it did didnt show this.
 
Sainsburys says that it wouldnt decline a credit limit increase until there was £50,000 of 
external debt elsewhere. While that is Sainsburys commercial decision to make it does not mean that in Miss Ps circumstances that was the fair or reasonable thing to do. Even on 
Miss Ps declared income at the point of application this would equate to more than two 
years gross salary for her. And repayments on such an amount of credit (assuming Miss P 
paid 5% of the outstanding balance a month, with no further interest incurred) would be 
£2,500  in excess of the entire monthly net income for someone earning £24,000 per year.
Indeed, this statement makes me conclude that little or no account was taken of Miss Ps 
ability to sustainably repay her credit.
So, on balance, I am not satisfied that Sainsburys acted reasonably or fairly in providing 
Miss P with the credit limit increase in 2012 because I think its checks should have shown 
that the additional lending was unaffordable for her.   
Putting things right
As I dont think Sainsburys should have increased Miss Ps credit limit from £1,8500, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Miss P has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, Sainsburys should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £1,850.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss P along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Sainsburys should also remove all adverse information 
recorded from June 2012 regarding this account from Miss Ps credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,8500, Sainsburys 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss P for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after June 2012 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
If Sainsburys has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above 
is carried out promptly.
Sainsburys should also pay Miss P £200 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she has experienced. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss P a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint about unaffordable lending from the point of the credit limit 
increase in June 2012. I direct Sainsburys Bank plc to pay compensation as described 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman