DRN-2528012
The complaint
 Mr H says Santander UK plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a personal loan in 2009. 
The policy was added to Mr Hs account when he applied for the loan online. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he didnt think Santander had made the 
policys cost clear enough to Mr H. A second adjudicator reviewed the complaint and agreed 
with the conclusions of the first adjudicator. 
Santander disagreed with the conclusions of both adjudicators, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Santander says its online application included a calculator to give customers an idea of how 
much their loan would cost with and without the PPI. But use of the calculator wasnt 
mandatory, and the actual cost of the loan (including the policy) wasnt available until after 
the application had been credit scored. 
Details of the PPI cost were not available until the loan was offered. Santander has provided  
sample letters which show the monthly cost of the PPI, and the total payable if the loan is 
protected for the full term. Santander cant say for sure which of the two letters wouldve 
been sent to Mr H. 
But whichever letter was sent, neither of them show the total cost of the loan without the PPI. 
So I dont think it would have been immediately obvious to Mr H what proportion of his 
overall borrowing the PPI represented. 
I think that if Santander had given this information to Mr H, its unlikely he would have taken 
out the policy because I dont think he would have considered it to be good value. 
I therefore think Mr H has lost out as a result of Santander's failings in this case, because I 
dont think he would have taken out the policy if hed been properly informed about its cost.
Putting things right
Mr H borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr H needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, Santander should:
- Work out and pay Mr H the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr H in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman