DRN-3795509
The complaint
Mr M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited called him at work. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr M contacted Link and advised he wanted email communication going forward but 
was willing to reach a payment arrangement. Link says it removed Mr Ms telephone 
numbers from his profile but from around August 2019 it received no further contact or 
payments from him. 
Last year, Link says it carried out a tracing exercise. Link says it used information from the 
credit reference agencies to try and find contact information for Mr M. One of the numbers 
included was used in December 2021 to try and contact Mr M. 
Mr M went on to contact Link as it had called a work number and left a message with a 
colleague. Mr M complained that Link had contacted him on an inappropriate and incorrect 
number and that it had previously agreed to remove his telephone numbers from its 
systems. 
Link didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and explained it had obtained the number following a 
trace exercise. The number was removed from Links systems. Link acknowledged Mr M had 
asked it to contact him by email back in 2019 but pointed out payments and contact had 
ceased a short time later. 
An investigator at this service thought Link had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to take further action. Mr M asked to appeal and said he remained of the view that it 
was inappropriate for Link to have called him at work. As Mr M asked to appeal his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M is upset that Link called a number at his work when trying to speak 
with him. But I have to balance that against the rest of the information available. I can see 
that in 2019 Mr M asked Link to contact him by email only. And Link did follow Mr Ms 
request for a reasonable period. But after a payment arrangement was agreed by email, the 
payments stopped. And Link didnt receive any follow up emails or other contact from Mr M. 
Links forwarded evidence that shows it sent Mr M emails and letters throughout 2020 and 
2021 to try and discuss his account. Ive looked at the email address Link used and it 
matches the one Mr Ms given to our service. No response was received. Given the lack of 
payment or communication for an extended period, Im satisfied Link had grounds to try 
other methods of contact with Mr M  including calling him. 
Towards the end of 2020 Link started to send text messages to a mobile number it found. 
But no response was received. Link located a landline number for Mr M via a tracing 
exercise and attempted to call him. I appreciate this number related to Mr Ms job. But the 
tracing exercise located it from the credit reference agencies. And given the lack of contact 
by email, letter or telephone at that point, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to attempt to 
speak with Mr M using the number Link found. 
Mr Ms told us it was inappropriate for Link to contact him using a work number. But Link had 
no way of knowing the number it found when tracing him was a work number. And when Mr 
M notified it, the number was removed from its contact system. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded Link acted unfairly by using the 
number it found when completing a tracing exercise to try and speak with him. As Im 
satisfied Link dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman