DRN-3253561
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Halifax) didnt help recover the money he says 
he lost to a fraudulent company. He also believes Halifax shouldve done more to prevent his 
loss. 
What happened
Mr C became interested in bitcoin trading after seeing advertisements on television, 
endorsed by celebrities. His son sent him an email detailing how he could get involved. 
Everything appeared to be legitimate, so Mr C called the firm, who Ill refer to as S and 
made a payment for €250. He was told a Trader would be in touch. 
Mr C says the Trader who contacted him, was aggressive and manipulative. They kept 
calling  asking him to invest more money. He felt intimidated and made two further 
payments. By this point Mr C had made three payments (including transfer and purchase 
fees) totalling over £1,700 using his Halifax debit card. These payments were made to a 
merchant Ill refer to as B. The Trader continued making further requests and for larger 
sums. Mr C realised this was not going to end. He refused to make further payments and 
tried to withdraw his money. The platform kept displaying error messages. He wrote to S 
Support Team, who acknowledged his email but then communication ceased. And Mr C lost 
access to his trading account.    
Mr C contacted Halifax for assistance with recovering the money. He told them hed been 
the victim of a scam and that hed been unable to withdraw any funds from his trading 
account. Halifax asked Mr C for evidence to support his dispute. After reviewing what Mr C 
had provided, Halifax told Mr C that it would not be raising a claim for the disputed payments 
as it did not have any Visa chargeback rights against B. Unhappy with this response, Mr C 
contacted our service. He also complained that Halifax did not provide any warnings when 
he made the payments. 
Halifax issued its final response after the complaint was brought to our service. It didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint and maintained its position. Mr C remained unhappy with Halifaxs 
response, so one of our Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator didnt uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. He concluded that he didnt think a chargeback claim against B wouldve 
succeeded and didnt think Halifax is liable for Mr Cs loss as it didnt miss an opportunity to 
prevent, or recover, this. Mr C disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to address Mr Cs submissions in relation to authorisation. Mr C was dealing 
with S. So I can see why he makes the argument that payments taken by B were not 
authorised by him, and were taken without his consent. But in this case, the relevant 
regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These say that a payment 
transaction is regarded as authorised by the payer if it was made using the legitimate 
security credentials provided by the payment service provider (here Halifax) and if the payer 
gave consent to the execution of the payment transaction. Its common ground that Mr C 
agreed to payments being made, these must be regarded as authorised payments even if 
Mr C believes he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. Simply put, the fact that the 
payments were taken by a merchant with a different name to that Mr C believed he was 
dealing with and agreed to pay does not mean they were not authorised for the purposes of 
the PSRs. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. Halifax are bound by the card scheme providers rules 
which in this case is Visa. It is Visa  not Halifax, who will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute 
between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when choosing not to present (or presenting) 
a chargeback claim on behalf of its cardholder.
Here Halifax chose not to raise a chargeback claim as it didnt think Mr Cs claim had a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. It said that B was a payment processing/cryptocurrency 
exchange firm, that had fulfilled the service it was expected to provide  successfully 
transferring Mr Cs funds to S. Therefore, it didnt have any Visa chargeback rights against 
B. 
Ive carefully thought about whether in these circumstances I think Halifaxs decision to not 
pursue chargeback claims was fair and reasonable. I can see the reason Mr C gave for 
raising a chargeback was that S had not provided him with the service hed been promised. 
For the purposes of the chargeback scheme there is no claim against S as the disputed 
payments were made to B. And based on what information has been provided by both 
parties I dont think the conclusion Halifax reached that B was a payment 
processing/cryptocurrency exchange firm, that had fulfilled the service it was expected to 
provide was unreasonable. So it follows that I cant say that Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in reaching the conclusion that Mr Cs claim didnt have a reasonable prospect 
of succeeding and consequentially deciding not to raise a chargeback claim.  
Intervention 
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that Halifax ought to have intervened and alerted him to the 
possibility of this being a scam. But as a starting position, banks are under an obligation to 
follow their customers instructions. Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate 
cash withdrawal requests correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments are made 
correctly. So, consumers who authorise a payment, even where that turns out to be fraud 
related or they were tricked into doing so, start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting 
that payment returned to them because the bank was following a valid instruction.There are some situations where it would be reasonable to conclude  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  that a bank ought to have been on alert or notice 
that something wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment. So, Ive looked into what this means for this 
case and whether I think Halifax should reasonably have done more here to prevent the 
payments in dispute. And I dont think it could have. Ill explain why. 
I know Mr C believes that by the time his disputed payments were made in early 2019 
Halifax ought reasonably to have had a good enough understanding of how cryptocurrency 
scams tend to work. It should have had mechanisms in place to identify and stop payments 
being made to these firms. But the question here isnt whether Halifax had measures or 
systems in place, its whether in the individual circumstances of Mr Cs case it ought to have 
intervened.   
I dont entirely disagree with Mr C. I do think due to the rise in cryptocurrency scams in 
recent years banks should have mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of 
fraud. But its not always the case that a payment made to a payment processor, 
cryptocurrency exchange or gambling merchant is necessarily at risk of fraud. As much as 
scammers utilise some of these firms services when tricking innocent victims, they are 
equally utilised for legitimate transactions. So banks do have to strike a fine balance 
between convenience for their customers and prevention of fraudulent activity. 
Having considered everything carefully, I dont think Halifax wouldve had any reasonable 
basis for intervening in this specific case. I say this because the mere fact that Mr C was 
making a payment to a payment processor, cryptocurrency exchange or gambling merchant 
wouldnt justify Halifax making further enquiries before allowing these payments to be made. 
I appreciate Mr C has provided online reviews about S, which comment on: it being an 
unregulated/unlicenced broker; its questionable sales methods/trading practices; issues 
investors experience when requesting a withdrawal; and suggestion that the firm may be 
operating fraudulently. I know he feels Halifax ought to have know B were involved in the 
scam with S. But I dont agree. I dont think Halifax couldve reasonably known that the 
payments debiting Mr Cs account were to be passed onto S. Ive also not seen any credible 
adverse data about B or evidence to support that it was anything other than a legitimate firm.  
I wouldve expected Halifax to be on the lookout for a significant change in spending 
behaviour or out of character transactions that indicated Mr C was at risk of fraud. With the 
benefit of hindsight, we now know that Mr C has likely fallen victim to a scam  but I dont 
think Halifax couldve been expected to identify that at the time. I say that because I can see 
from Mr Cs statements that he made regular payments to other gambling websites. And 
although the disputed payments were larger than previous activity on the account in the six 
months leading up to the disputed payments, they werent sufficiently large enough that I 
wouldve expected Halifax to have intervened. There was also no interaction between Mr C 
and Halifax at the time the payments were processed. So I cant fairly say Halifax missed an 
opportunity where it couldve asked Mr C more questions about the nature of the payments.
Overall, having taken all of the evidence and arguments into consideration, Im not 
persuaded that Halifax can fairly and reasonably be held liable for Mr Cs losses.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and despite my sympathy for what Mr C has been 
through, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman