DRN-3625843
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him for transfers made from his 
accounts which he says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr B says he contacted HSBC to check the balance of his Help to Buy 
Individual Savings Account (HTB ISA) to fund the purchase of his property. He was paying in 
£100 a month into his HTB ISA since November 2017 and was expecting the balance to be 
around £3,500.
Mr B says HSBC confirmed that he had around £3,500 in his HTB ISA but when he visited a 
branch to withdraw the funds and close the account, he was told he only had around £250. 
Mr B says he called HSBC again. He says he was told that the previous call had been 
listened to and it was confirmed that he had £3,500 in his account. 
He says HSBC then told him they couldnt find any statements for his account. And they said 
they couldnt give him any money as there was no proof of how much he previously had. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B raised a complaint. He says he spoke to the branch who told him 
that he would get his money back once it was signed off by the area manager. He was then 
told the refund had been signed off and hed get his money back within three to five working 
days, but he still hasnt received it.
HSBC told Mr B that several transfers had been made from the HTB ISA to his current 
account. The funds were then transferred from his current account to a beneficiary (Ms B). 
The payments to Ms B amounted to a total of around £4,000. They asked Mr B to review his 
statements to confirm if he recognised the payments made to Ms B.
Mr B told HSBC that he was certain he had £3,500 in his HTB ISA and confirmed that he 
didnt recognise any payments made to Ms B. HSBC didnt give Mr B a refund as they said 
the disputed transactions were made via online banking. So, they couldnt have been made 
without Mr Bs security credentials. 
Since HSBC didnt give Mr B a refund, he referred his complaint to our service. Mr B 
reiterated that he didnt make the transfers. He believed hed either been hacked or that his 
money had been stolen when the HTB ISA was closed. He said hed heard on the news that 
HSBC managers were stealing customers money and thats what may have happened to 
him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Mr B more likely than not authorised 
the disputed transactions. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, HSBC can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
HSBC have explained the process to access online banking. Theyve also provided 
information to show how to set up a new payee, make transfers between accounts and 
payments out of accounts. These require entering online banking security credentials. Based 
on this and on balance, Im satisfied the access to Mr Bs online banking, transfers between 
Mr Bs accounts and payments to Ms B were properly authenticated.
Mr B has told us that he doesnt recognise or know Ms B. Hes also told us he logs on to 
online banking using his mobile phone and his mothers computer. He has confirmed that no 
one other than his parents have had access to the computer. Both devices are password 
protected and the mobile phone also has Face ID protection. He has explained that only he 
knows the passwords to access the devices. And the online banking credentials were stored 
on his iPhone keychain which no one had access to.
Based on the information Mr B has provided, its difficult to understand how someone else 
couldve completed the disputed transactions without his authority. Mr B believes that HSBC 
staff may have been stealing his money. But I havent seen any evidence of this.
I appreciate Mr B says HSBC told him in February 2021 that he had £3,500 in his HTB ISA, 
but when he tried to withdraw the funds and close the account, he was told he only had 
around £250. He says that they also told him they couldnt find any statements for his 
accounts and there was no proof of how much he previously had.
Mr B has provided some information about when these calls likely took place, but HSBC 
havent been able to find any call recordings. In the absence of the call recordings, I cant 
say for certain what was discussed during these calls. 
However, on balance, I think its unlikely that HSBC gave Mr B this information. I say this 
because the statements for both Mr Bs bank account and HTB ISA have been supplied. The 
statement for Mr Bs HTB ISA shows the highest amount he held in this account at any time 
was £2,146.53, so I cant see why HSBC would tell Mr B that he had £3,500 specifically. It 
also shows that the balance was around £250 when Mr B asked to withdraw funds and close 
his HTB ISA. As such, I think we can rule out the possibility that Mr Bs funds were stolen 
when his account was closed.
I wasnt party to the discussions that took place in the branch. But based on what Ive seen, I 
think its unlikely that Mr B was told that hed be receiving a refund or that an area manager 
had signed it off. I say this because theres no record of a refund being agreed in HSBCs 
complaint notes. Theres also no indication that HSBC had accepted liability for Mr Bs claim. 
I think this inconsistency is more likely a misunderstanding or confusion on Mr Bs part.
The other explanation Mr B has provided for how the disputed transactions must have taken 
place is his devices were hacked. Ive thought about this, but I think its unlikely. Ill explain 
why.HSBC have confirmed that Mr Bs online banking credentials werent reset. This is consistent 
with the current account bank statements which shows Mr B was using his account to make 
undisputed transfers, during the period when the disputed transactions were carried out. If a 
fraudster had hacked or reset the online banking credentials, then I dont think Mr B wouldve 
had access to his online banking.
Looking at Mr Bs current account statement, I can see the first payment to Ms B was made 
on 30 December 2019. This was prior to any withdrawals being made from Mr Bs HTB ISA. 
The balance of Mr Bs HTB ISA at the time was over £2,000. There were no further 
payments made from Mr Bs current account to Ms B until 14 February 2020. 
I find it unlikely that if a fraudster had hacked or somehow gained access to Mr Bs accounts, 
they would only take £30 given that he had over £2,000 in his HTB ISA. I also find it highly 
unlikely that theyd then wait over two months before making any further withdrawals.
Between February and May 2020, all the funds in Mr Bs HTB ISA were transferred to his 
current account. These funds were then transferred out of Mr Bs current account to Ms B. 
Some payments were for amounts as low as £10, with the largest amount of £200. There 
were periods during these three months where no payments were made to Ms B for several 
days.
Mr B was using his online banking during this time to make payments he hasnt disputed. I 
can see Mr B made some undisputed transfers on the same day as payments to Ms B. 
Although Mr B says he didnt check his statements or look at the transactions, on balance, 
Im satisfied Mr B wouldve noticed some of the transfers into his current account from his 
HTB ISA and the payments to Ms B. But Mr B didnt report these transactions to HSBC for 
some time, despite, I think, being aware of them.
If a fraudster was able to access Mr Bs accounts, then I think its more likely than not that 
they wouldve drained all the funds from his accounts as quickly as possible rather than over 
a period of five months. I think the pattern of payments seems unusual for a fraudster, given 
that they dont know when their access to Mr Bs account would be removed.
I think a fraudster would want to maximise gain before Mr B could discover the fraudulent 
activity and notify HSBC to secure his account  meaning their access to Mr Bs account 
would be removed, stopping them taking further money.
I have to also bear in mind that there were further withdrawals amounting to around £550 in 
total from Mr Bs HTB ISA in July, August, September and December 2020. These funds 
were transferred into Mr Bs current account and used to make transactions Mr B hasnt 
disputed. 
This indicates that Mr B was making withdrawals out of his HTB ISA despite his testimony 
that he didnt use the HTB ISA for anything other than savings. Also, Mr B insists that his 
balance should be £3,500. But given that the withdrawals from the HTB ISA between July 
and December 2020 were used to make undisputed transactions, I think Mr B wouldve been 
aware the balance was lower when he transferred money out himself.
All things considered, I think the evidence points to Mr B having authorised the payments out 
of his account. So, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund him.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman