DRN-2176488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). They also say they were 
unnecessarily required to pay for a legal administration service.
Mr and Mrs J are represented in bringing their complaint by a claims management company
(CMC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs J remortgaged in April 2006. They were advised by a mortgage broker from the 
firm AWD Home Finance Limited, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
Prior to the remortgage, Mr and Mrs J owed around £51,500 on their existing mortgage. 
They also owed approximately £7,500 across two personal loans and a further £5,400 
across two credit cards.
As part of the remortgage Mr and Mrs J borrowed £72,600. They consolidated all of their 
existing borrowing and took new borrowing of just over £4,150. The remaining amount 
borrowed covered the costs of setting up the new mortgage.
In August 2019 the CMC complained to L&G on Mr and Mrs Js behalf. It said it felt the 
mortgage advice was unsuitable as it thought some of the unsecured borrowing should not 
have been consolidated. It also said that Mr and Mrs J had paid an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when repaying their existing mortgage and it felt they shouldve been advised not to 
do so and should instead have been told to remain with their existing lender as there was no 
urgency to remortgage. The CMC also said that it felt the fee Mr and Mrs J had paid L&G for 
legal administration was unjustified and had not been made clear. 
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs J had low disposable income under 
the existing arrangement and their discounted mortgage interest rate was due to come to an 
end  which wouldve reduced their disposable income even further. Theyd also wanted to 
raise funds for home improvements so, given their existing low disposable income, it thought 
the advice to consolidate the debts and pay the ERC was appropriate to allow them to meet 
this aim. It said the advice and reasons for it had been explained clearly to Mr and Mrs J and 
they had made an informed decision. And L&G said that the legal administration fee covered 
administrative tasks carried out by the broker and that it had been made clear to Mr and 
Mrs J.
Unhappy with this response the CMC referred Mr and Mrs Js complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into matters. He thought the advice had been appropriate given 
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. And he felt the legal administration fee had been made clear. 
So overall, he didnt think L&G had done anything wrong.
The CMC requested that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman as they did not 
agree. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the mortgage advice
The fact find, completed at the time of the application, indicates that under their existing 
arrangements Mr and Mrs J had disposable income of only £46 per month. Their existing 
repayments to unsecured debt were in excess of £300 per month. The interest on the loans 
that formed part of this lending was around 13%, with the credit card likely to have been 
similar if not higher. 
On top of this Mr and Mrs Js existing monthly mortgage payments were around £280 as 
well. However, the information indicates that those monthly mortgage repayments were 
based on a discounted interest rate, that was due to expire in April 2006. At which point it is 
reasonable to assume that the monthly mortgage payments wouldve increased  potentially 
significantly. 
It isnt clear by how much these mortgage repayments wouldve increased but this would at 
least have reduced Mr and Mrs Js disposable income yet further. And, in the event the 
increase in repayments was more than their remaining disposable income  which was quite 
likely given how low this disposable income was, it could in fact have made their existing 
arrangements unaffordable. So, I think this indicates a need for Mr and Mrs J to reduce their 
outgoings and, contrary to what the CMC has said, I think there was potentially a need to act 
quickly.
On top of this Mr and Mrs J indicated that they wanted some certainty and stability in terms 
of repayments, and interest rates, and for these to be as low as possible. And they wanted to 
borrow additional funds for home improvements. But again, they only had disposable income 
of around £46 per month to potentially repay this. So again, to achieve their goals, I think 
there was a need to reduce their outgoings.
To achieve Mr and Mrs Js aims and allow them to borrow some additional money the broker 
recommended the unsecured debt be consolidated and a mortgage taken out at a fixed rate 
of 4.64% for three years, with monthly repayments of around £480. This interest rate was 
lower than the rate Mr and Mrs J were paying on their unsecured borrowing. The fixed rate 
provided certainty in terms of repayments. And consolidating the debts resulted in Mr and 
Mrs Js disposable income increasing to around £120, even after having borrowed an 
additional amount for home improvements. So, I think the recommendation by L&G allowed 
Mr and Mrs J to achieve their goals and improved their financial position in the short term.
There are downsides to consolidating unsecured debt  a key one being the amount of 
interest repaid overall is likely to be more as a result of spreading the borrowing out over the 
full mortgage term. And the CMC has said here it wasnt appropriate for Mr and Mrs J to 
have been told to do so  particularly in regard to one credit card which had a low balance 
as that couldve been repaid sooner. 
It is true that Mr and Mrs J may have paid some of their unsecured borrowing off quicker. But 
given their financial position at the time, in particular their level of disposable income and 
their desire to carry out home improvements  requiring more borrowing, I think this wouldve 
appeared unlikely. So, I think the benefits of the recommendation made outweighed the 
disadvantages. And I note the record of suitability, signed by Mr and Mrs J, did set out these 
disadvantages. 
 Mr and Mrs J did have to pay an ERC to exit their existing mortgage. And the CMC says this 
makes the recommendation unsuitable  as it says there was no urgency to remortgage and 
they should instead have been told to remain with their existing lender until the ERC period 
expired. 
As Ive already said, I dont necessarily agree with the CMC that there was no urgency. The 
information available indicates that an ERC wouldve been payable for a further two years. 
But Mr and Mrs J told L&G that their discounted rate was about to expire at the time they 
took the advice  so their monthly repayments wouldve been about to increase. And given 
the low disposable income available to them, this couldve meant they struggled to maintain 
the repayments for the two years until the ERC expired.
There seems to have been some discussion around this. The suitability report, again signed 
by Mr and Mrs J, notes that the ERC would be incurred. And in the circumstances, I think 
incurring the cost was justified, given the benefits to Mr and Mrs J of the recommended 
mortgage.
So overall, I dont think the mortgage advice given by L&G was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J 
based on their circumstances at the time.
The legal costs
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged by the
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal administration fee. It says Mr and Mrs J 
paid £293.75 for this, on top of the cost of their solicitors (£229.12). And the CMC says this 
is unjustified as the solicitor completed the majority of the work.
The CMC has also indicated that Mr and Mrs J werent given a choice in respect of which 
solicitors they appointed. But Ive not seen any evidence of this.
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal administration fee itself: there are a
number of administrative procedures that didnt necessarily need to be carried out by a 
solicitor. I know the CMC questions the value of the work given that a solicitor was involved 
 as it says that solicitor did most of the work. But ultimately it was up to the broker to decide 
what fee it wanted to charge for the services it provided.
These fees were set out in a Solicitors Form of Authorisation. This confirmed Mr and
Mrs Js instruction to pay £250 plus VAT to the broker in respect of legal / administrative 
costs, on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor (£195 plus VAT). Mr and Mrs J
signed that form. And L&G has confirmed the legal administration fee wouldve been payable 
regardless of which solicitors firm Mr and Mrs J used. So overall, I think they were clearly 
informed about the fee and what it was for  and they agreed to pay it. So, I dont think it was 
unfairly charged. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman