DRN-3641242
The complaint
Miss B complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), declining a claim under her home insurance 
policy for damage to her property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Miss Bs property suffered roof damage, with 
ridge tiles being blown off and other damage to the roof from the debris. She contacted QIC 
to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage. He inspected the 
damage from ground level using a camera. Following the surveyors visit and report, QIC 
declined Miss Bs claim on the grounds that the damage was due to pre-existing issues with 
the mortar bedding of the ridge tiles, which had deteriorated and in some places was 
missing. This had caused the tiles to come loose, leading to them being blown off by the 
storm conditions. So, the damage was the result of wear and tear, rather than high winds.
Miss B challenged QICs decision and engaged a roofer to inspect the roof (at roof level). 
The roofer concluded the damage was due to storm conditions at the time of the incident. 
However, QIC didnt accept this view, maintaining their decision to reject the claim.
Miss B then complained to QIC, but they didnt uphold it. In their final response QIC 
confirmed their decision to decline the claim. While they accepted there were storm 
conditions at the time of the incident, based on their surveyors report findings and 
conclusions about the condition of the mortar bedding, they said the storm highlighted pre-
existing wear and tear issues  it wasnt the direct cause of the damage. QIC referred to an 
exclusion under the policy for gradual deterioration. They also confirmed their surveyor 
wouldnt have gone onto the roof to inspect the damage due to health and safety concerns  
but they had the equipment to take photos of the roof of sufficient quality to assess the 
damage and its cause.
Miss B then complained to this service. Based on the view of the roofer she engaged, as 
well as the damage to a property opposite hers, she didnt think QIC had fairly declined her 
claim due to wear and tear. She wanted QIC to pay for the damage, which shed had to pay 
to be repaired. She was also unhappy at the time taken by QIC to decline the claim, which 
she said was stressful.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt acted fairly. He concluded 
there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and that the damage was typical of 
that to be expected in a storm (specifically, high winds). While he agreed there were some 
areas of mortar deterioration (and gaps) the severity of the winds recorded were up to what 
(on the Beaufort Scale) would be considered hurricane force. He also noted the conclusions 
of Miss Bs roofer that the damage was caused by the extreme weather conditions. Based 
on these conclusions, particularly the severity of the wind, he thought QIC should reimburse 
Miss B for the cost of the repair work shed paid (together with interest from the date she 
paid the cost of repair to the date QIC reimbursed her). 
On the issue of the length of time QIC had taken to assess the claim, the investigator didnt 
think QIC had acted unreasonably. Theyd prepared two reports on the damage to Miss Bs 
property and assessed the claim in a reasonable timeframe. So, he didnt think QIC needed 
to do anything more about this aspect of Miss Bs complaint.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said that while they accepted the wind speeds were high at the time of the 
incident and met the policy criteria to be classified as a storm, they didnt think the damage 
to the property would have occurred if the mortar bed holding the ridge tiles in place hadnt 
deteriorated or if it had been in a better condition. If it had, the bond between the ridge tiles 
and the roof would have been much stronger, so the winds wouldnt have been able to blow 
the ridge tiles off. So, the proximate cause of the damage was the deterioration of the 
mortar, which the winds highlighted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss B.
The main element of Miss Bs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the 
main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the mortar bed of 
the tiles. That had deteriorated and had gaps, so the high winds only highlighted an existing 
issue. Miss B doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the storm. She points to the 
view of her roofer in support of this view (as well as noting damage to another property 
nearby). Miss B is also unhappy at how QIC handled the claim, in particular the time taken to 
deal with the claim. 
In considering the first element, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-
existing issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Miss Bs property at the time of the incident, noting a highest wind speed of 78 mph. This 
accords with the weather report provided by QIC, which describes the wind as violent storm 
force gusts. The reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate storm 
conditions at the time of the incident. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present 
around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from both QICs surveyor and from Miss Bs roofer 
show that some of the ridge tiles at the apex of the roof of Miss Bs property have come off. 
Theres also damage to other tiles on the roof, which would be consistent with impacts from 
the ridge tiles as they came off the roof. Both types of damage are ones wed expect in 
storm conditions, particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with 
that a storm typically causes.The third question is therefore the key issue, where Miss B and QIC disagree. Ive 
considered both views carefully, together with the reports from QICs surveyor and the 
opinion of Miss Bs roofer and the photographs taken by both. Ive also considered the 
further information and representations made by QIC when responding to our investigators 
view. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in 
declining Miss Bs claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states We 
dont coverd. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
We have inspected the ridge tiles and noted the mortar bedding has deteriorated, 
completely missing in areas and has allowed the tiles to become loose, being 
displaced in the windthe proximate cause of the displacement is wear and tear
However, Miss Bs roofer states that:
I can confirm that the damage was caused by extreme weather conditions which 
caused the ridge to left and cause damage to the main and lower roof.
As Miss Bs roofer inspected the roof at roof level (whereas QICs surveyor carried out the 
inspection from ground level) then I think the roofers view is more persuasive. 
Ive also considered the question of the condition of the mortar and whether this would have 
been (as QIC maintain) the cause (or dominant cause) of the damage. Looking at the 
photographs taken by QICs surveyor and those by Miss bs roofer, there is some evidence 
of mortar deterioration underpinning the ridge tiles. But thats the case even in places where 
ridge tiles havent been displaced, which if the mortar deterioration and gaps referred to by 
QIC were the main cause of the damage, I wouldnt have expected those tiles to remain in 
place. Ive also noted a comment from QIC when responding to a point from our investigator 
about whether the storm itself could have dislodged the mortar to create the observed gaps. 
The comments state:
the wind has simply highlighted the ridge tiles that had a weak bond to the roof 
due to the mortar deteriorationthe images clearly show the remaining mortar, particularly under the ridge tiles that have not been removed, is aged and in a poor 
condition. In addition, the cracks and missing mortar under the remaining ridge tiles 
is not showing freshly exposed mortar, meaning the mortar has been like this for 
some time.
However, looking at the photographs taken by Miss Bs roofer, the remaining mortar bed 
under the displaced tiles looks to be freshly exposed. Taken with QICs comment then had 
the mortar deteriorated before the incident (leading to a weak bond) then Id have expected 
the exposed mortar to have shown signs of aging. As the mortar looks freshly exposed, this 
suggests the bond before the incident wasnt weak (to the extent it then led to the tiles being 
displaced). Taking these points into account  particularly given the onus being on QIC to 
show the exclusion applies  than Im persuaded the storm conditions are, on balance, the 
main or dominant cause of the damage.
Ive also considered the severity of the storm conditions on the date of the incident. As noted 
above, QICs weather report indicates a maximum wind speed (gust) of 78 mph and 
describes the wind as violent storm force gusts. The wind speed is significantly higher 
than QICs own policy definition of storm force winds (55 mph). Our investigator noted that a 
wind speed of 78 mph would (on the Beaufort Scale) be classified as Hurricane level under 
the WMO classifications. At this level, expected damage would include tiles being displaced, 
which is consistent with what happened in this case.
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining Miss Bs claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put things 
right. My understanding is that Miss B has already paid for the repair work to be carried out. 
That being the case, as I dont think QIC can rely on the policy exclusion to decline the 
claim, I think they should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Miss B providing 
evidence (such as an invoice) of the cost shes incurred. In addition, on the assumption Miss 
B has paid the cost, I think its reasonable to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the 
date Miss B paid the cost to the date QIC settle the claim.
Turning to the second question, the time taken to assess Miss Bs claim, Ive considered the 
timeline of events. The date of the incident, in February 2022, to QICs final response, in 
March 2022, is a period of just over a month. That includes the inspection by QICs surveyor 
eleven days after the incident as well as Miss Bs roofer. It also includes a second view (and 
discussion with Miss B) from a second, in-house QIC surveyor, before QICs final response. 
Looking at this timeline, I dont think its unreasonable  particularly as Storm Eunice (as a 
named storm) was a significant weather event and likely to have led to an increased number 
of claims for damage. So, Ive concluded QIC acted reasonably in the time taken to assess 
Miss Bs claim. While I appreciate the incident will have been stressful for Miss B, I dont 
think QIC caused her undue stress from their handling of her claim. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including 
any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Miss B providing evidence 
(such as an invoice) of the cost shes incurred. In addition, on the assumption Miss B has paid the cost, I think its reasonable to add 
interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Miss B paid the cost to the date QIC settle the 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman