DRN-3551621
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society are being unfair in not refunding interest 
applied to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S has held a credit card account with Nationwide for many years and says he has never 
missed a payment.
Mr Ss minimum payment due on 21 February 2022 was £10. Unfortunately, Mr S paid one 
day late and, as per the terms and conditions of the account, Nationwide charged him a late 
payment fee of £12 plus 15 pence interest.
Mr S was upset with the fee and interest charge. This is because he has an exemplary 
payment record over a long period and has experienced a difficult financial situation, due to 
Covid.
Mr S complained to Nationwide; however, they were not prepared to refund either of the 
fees. This is because the fees are stated within Nationwides terms and conditions and Mr S 
had not informed them of any financial hardship or payment difficulties. Also, they had 
applied a refund for a member error in August 2021 and advised Mr S that this would be 
the only time they would do so.
Mr S complained to our service as he thought it was unfair that Nationwide would not refund 
the 15 pence interest charge. Our investigator considered his complaint but could not see 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong.
As Mr S remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
As Mr S has a good payment record despite experiencing difficulties during the Covid period 
and was only one day late, I can understand why he is upset that Nationwide wont refund 
such a small amount. 
I can see that Nationwide acted within the terms and conditions of the account and that Mr S 
doesnt dispute this. Regarding Mr S having financial difficulties during the Covid period, I 
couldnt see that Mr S informed Nationwide, despite receiving statements which encouraged 
customers to call them if they had difficulties paying. So Im satisfied that Nationwide were 
entitled to apply the charge and interest.
In considering whether Nationwide has acted fairly here, Ive seen that they provided Mr S 
with a refund as a goodwill gesture in August 2021. The notes of this call reflect that 
Nationwide explained that they would refund the interest on this occasion. They also advised 
Mr S about how he could avoid this situation again in the future. So I think this shows that 
Nationwide are willing to act fairly towards Mr S. 
Nationwide have explained that its their policy to only offer a refund once in the last 12 
months when a miss payment isnt their fault, so by the time Mr S missed another payment 
in February 2022  they werent willing to make another refund and I think thats a decision 
they were entitled to make and one they made fairly.
So, while in isolation it may seem unreasonable for Nationwide to refuse such a small 
amount, Im satisfied that they have acted in a fair and reasonable way.
While I understand Mr Ss frustrations, I havent seen anything which suggests Nationwide 
have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman