DRN-2272794
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a
mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent
before adding the policy to their mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time the
policy was sold, but Lloyds has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr and Mrs B 
completed and signed an application form separate to their mortgage to take the policy. With 
this in mind, I think they would have known they didnt have to take the policy and they 
chose to have it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for
them. Mr and Mrs B have told us they werent entitled to any sick pay and did not have any 
savings when they took the policy.
Mr B was self-employed when this policy was taken out but having looked at the policy, I can 
see the policy covered people that were self-employed and didnt make it any more difficult 
to make a claim. Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time they 
werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have 
had a need for the cover. So, I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put
them off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman