DRN-1282645
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited turned down a claim made on her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy and that it won't pay for her obtaining a second legal 
opinion on the prospects of her succeeding in her claims. Any references to Fairmead 
includes its claims handlers and policy administrator.
What happened
Mrs S is a teacher and in 2014 she was offered work through a recruitment agency (K) for 
one term with a school (L). Mrs Ss services were engaged through a third party (G). Mrs S 
started teaching at L but within a few weeks she was told that she was no longer required. 
She says her teaching assignment shouldve lasted for at least one term as per the contract 
that was in place. 
An employment tribunal determined back in 2015 that G was her employer  not K.
In 2018, Mrs S sought to make a claim on her LEI policy to cover the costs of bringing a 
claim for misrepresentation against G. She also wanted to join K into that claim. As Mrs S 
was deemed to have been employed by G, Fairmead agreed to appoint a panel law firm (the 
panel firm) to assess the prospects of Mrs S succeeding in a misrepresentation claim 
against G. But it said it wouldnt cover any claim against K. Thats because it said the policy 
covers legal action arising from Mrs Ss contract of employment and it didnt think Mrs S had 
an employment contract with K. 
The panel firm subsequently advised that Mrs Ss claim against G didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success, so Fairmead ceased funding legal representation. Mrs S doesnt think 
thats fair. Unhappy, she complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint afresh. 
So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mrs S will be very disappointed with my decision 
but hopefully shell understand the reasons for it, when I explain why.
Fairmead has an obligation to consider claims fairly and promptly, and it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
Under the policy, Fairmead is entitled to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Mrs S 
succeeding in her claim and, if she had more chance of succeeding in that claim than not, 
representing her in that action (subject to the remaining policy terms). Its common for LEI 
policies to include a condition like this and generally we dont think that sort of clause is 
unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt likely to succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or continue 
with, legal action.
Mrs S is unhappy with the legal advice given by the panel firm; she says that other law firms 
have indicated that she does have a good claim. Our Service cant consider complaints 
about the general legal advice given by a firm of solicitors. And although the panel firm was 
appointed by Fairmead to assess the prospects of her succeeding in her claim, theyre not 
under Fairmeads control. They are independent professionals with their own regulator and 
complaints procedures.
Our Service can only consider whether Fairmead did anything wrong in the way it handled 
the insurance claim. That includes whether the advice given to Mrs S by the panel firm was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that Fairmead shouldve 
reasonably questioned it. I dont think thats the case here. Im satisfied that when 
Fairmead withdrew cover under the policy, it reasonably relied on the advice of the 
panel firm when doing so. After all, the panel firm were the legal professionals and had day 
to day conduct of his case. And looking at the solicitor who provided the assessment on 
prospects, he was experienced in litigation matters and had been qualified for many years. 
Although Mrs S said that shed spoken to other law firms who advised that she did have a 
good claim, its not clear whether those law firms confirmed to Fairmead that having 
considered all the evidence, Mrs S was more likely than not to succeed in her 
misrepresentation claim against G - and why. But in any event, in light of the advice from the 
panel firm, I think the stance taken by Fairmead - that it would reconsider the claim in light of 
a positive assessment on prospects from a suitably qualified barrister (which Mrs S needed 
to pay for initially)  was fair and reasonable  and in line with what I wouldve expected. So, 
I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly by not agreeing to pay, up front, for Mrs S to obtain 
a second opinion.
I know Mrs S would like a claim for misrepresentation to be commenced against both K and 
G as she considers them to be jointly liable for misrepresentation. And, of course, its up to 
her whether she wants to pursue that course of action. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained to the parties, we dont have the power to look at whether Fairmead has unfairly 
concluded that any claim against K wouldnt be covered under the policy as it says any such 
claim didnt directly arise out of Mrs Ss employment contract. In summary, that aspect of her 
complaint has already been addressed by Fairmead in its final response letter dated 29 
September 2015. Mrs S didnt bring her complaint to us within six months from the date of 
that letter and Fairmead hasnt agreed to us looking at it out of time. And I havent seen 
anything to say there were any exceptional circumstances here to explain why Mrs S 
brought her complaint to us outside of the required timeframe. 
My final decision
I don't uphold Mrs S's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman