DRN-1600437
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way she was treated by Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) 
when trying to withdraw money from her account.  
What happened
On 10 June 2019, Ms M called Cofunds to request withdrawal of £6,000 from her account. 
She was told that in order to do so she would need to make the request online.
Ms M visited her building society to see if it could help as she wanted her money by 20 June 
2019, but it couldnt and was unable to obtain a withdrawal form via email. Cofunds said that 
itd send Ms M a copy in the post, 
Ms M filled out the relevant form on 11 June 2019 with the help of her building society. 
Despite a request from Ms M, Cofunds was unable to accept the form electronically or allow 
her to complete the request over the phone. It was also unable to tell her when the money 
would be paid into her nominated account.  
Ms M received her funds on 24 June 2019  four days later than she wanted  and in due 
course complained to our service.  
 One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In April 2018, Cofunds wrote to Ms M to say that it was making changes to the way it 
operated. It enclosed a booklet to explain the changes. 
It was made clear that withdrawals may take longer than they had previously done 
and that customers would no longer be able to give Cofunds withdrawal instructions 
over the phone.  
In April 2019, Cofunds sent a letter to Ms M to say that the changes would come into 
effect by 28 May 2019. 
Because Ms M confirmed that she received these letters its likely she wouldve been 
provided with information about the changes. 
Whilst she understood Ms Ms frustration and feelings of discrimination shes 
satisfied Cofunds notified her of the changes and it was therefore up to Ms M to 
decide whether or not she wished to remain with it.   
Whilst Ms M might not have known that on 10 June 2019 she could no longer 
withdraw money via telephone request, Cofunds hasnt done anything wrong. 
On 10 June 2019 Cofunds tried to email the withdrawal form to the building society 
branch manager but it didnt go through and thats why it sent it in the post, which Ms 
M received the next day. 
Cofunds took reasonable steps to ensure that Ms M was still able to receive her 
money.  
 
Ms M disagreed with the investigators view. She doesnt feel like the business has treated 
her fairly. In summary, she made the following key points:Shes confused as to the change of name from Aegon to Cofunds. Shes concerned 
that her complaint isnt against the correct business as shes not an upgraded 
Cofunds customer.
The investigators view doesnt mention that the brochure sent by Cofunds in April 
2018 also mentioned her being sent a new investor number in due course which 
never materialised and therefore left her thinking the changes hadnt been 
implemented. In other words, if the new system was up and running, why didnt she 
receive her investor number and product number? 
Cofunds discriminated against telephone banking customers. 
After her telephone transaction was turned down, she felt that her money was being 
withheld from her deliberately. 
She wasnt aware of the changes and was expecting the money to be accredited to 
her account by 20 June 2019. She spent hours trying to make sure that this would 
happen.  
She feels the implementation of the new system was disorganised, lacked 
transparency and was unprofessional.
She doesnt agree that Cofunds hasnt done anything wrong, or that it hasnt caused 
the delays. 
Having considered Ms Ms response our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. 
In short she said she has told Ms M that the business name had been updated and that this 
didnt impact on her complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including correspondence sent in after the complaint was referred me I 
agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im not going to 
uphold the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms M says, Im not persuaded 
that the business behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Ms strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and the Cofunds, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On balance Im satisfied that Cofunds notified Ms M in advance of changes that it proposed 
to bring in as a result of changes to its investment platform. I also note that it wrote to her a month or so before the changes were due to be implemented as a reminder that the 
changes were imminent. 
I appreciate the points Ms M makes about the investment and product numbers, but 
sometimes things take a little time when big changes are afoot. So even if these numbers 
werent provided as soon as shed have liked, it didnt mean that the changes werent going 
ahead. And in the circumstances I dont think it was a reasonable conclusion. Im conscious 
that the business made clear that these numbers would be provided in due course without 
giving a specific timeframe.  
I note that Ms M received the new numbers whilst being assisted with her withdrawal form, 
but I dont think that not having received them earlier has caused her any disadvantage 
either financially or in terms of her complaint. 
Cofunds is entitled to make changes to the way that it operates in the reasonable exercise of 
its legitimate commercial judgement. So in the circumstances Im unable to say that its done 
anything wrong by deciding to change investment platforms and along with it, its terms and 
conditions of business. Its not for us to tell Cofunds how to run its business. 
I appreciate that Ms M feels that shes being discriminated against as a telephone user, but 
despite what she says Ive seen no evidence that she is. In this instance business wide 
changes brought about by Cofunds  that apply equally to all its customers  isnt evidence 
of discrimination against Ms M. 
I also dont think the business has done anything wrong by not making an exception in Ms 
Ms case, and allow her to make the request over the phone, because itd probably have to 
do the same for all its other customers. 
In any case, given that Ms M was notified of the changes in advance, I think that she ought 
reasonably to have known that she couldnt make the request over the phone. But if she still 
wanted to perhaps she couldve made the request earlier before the changes were brought 
in. 
I appreciate Ms M feels very strongly about the changes, but she was given the opportunity 
to take her business elsewhere if she didnt like what was going on, which I dont think is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. However if as she suggests shes not totally against 
banking online, then she has the opportunity to do so. As Ive said earlier I dont think that 
Ms M not being provided with a new investor number or product number has disadvantaged 
her as Ive seen no evidence of her trying to use the online facilities. And even if she had, 
and didnt have her numbers, its likely that Cofunds wouldve been able to assist her with 
whatever information she needed.
I also dont think Cofunds was wrong not to give Ms M an exact time by which the money 
would reach her nominated account. I dont think it wouldve been able to, and certainly not 
without misleading Ms M. 
Im mindful of Ms Ms concerns about which business is dealing with her complaint, but I 
think in response to the investigators view, shes more or less answered her own question. 
Im satisfied her complaint is correctly made against Cofunds trading as Aegon. I appreciate 
her investment was previously administered by a third party business before it was taken 
over by Aegon, which is now part of Cofunds. In any case, I dont think this has 
disadvantaged Ms Ms substantive complaint points in any way.  
I appreciate Ms M felt that her money was being withheld from her deliberately, but Im 
unable to agree. Cofunds had a process in place that it needed to follow before it could transfer the money to her nominated account and at no point did it say that she couldnt have 
her money. 
I note that Ms M went to her local building society branch to try and sort out her request with 
Cofunds and wouldve preferred to have dealt with matters over the phone. But Im not 
persuaded that this or the time shes spent trying to withdraw her money means that shes 
now entitled to any compensation. 
Despite Ms Ms feelings about the overall service shes received, on balance Im unable to 
say that Cofunds has behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it has 
tried to resolve her issues within the limits of its new terms and conditions. 
Im mindful that Ms Ms received £400 compensation in relation to a separate complaint. I 
know Ms M feels that there may be some mix-up, but for the record that hasnt influenced my 
decision not to uphold this complaint which Ive dealt with as a wholly separate matter. 
Despite my findings, if Cofunds decides to award some compensation thats a matter 
between it and Ms M. 
I appreciate Ms M will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Cofunds to do anything. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman