DRN-1478780
 
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about a loan granted to him by PDL Finance Limited trading as
Mr Lender (Mr Lender or the lender). Mr Y says Mr Lender was irresponsible to lend to 
him because he could not afford the repayments without borrowing from other lenders. 
What happened
Mr Lender agreed a loan for Mr Y in January 2013. The loan was for £350 to be repaid in 
one instalment. The lender says that when applying for the loan Mr Y opted to make an 
interest only repayment before his full payment, meaning he needed to repay £105 at the 
end of January and £455 at the end of February. 
Mr Y made his January repayment and went on to make seven more interest only payments 
(and one capital payment) before finally repaying his loan in August that year. I understand 
that he paid a total amount of over £700 in interest and charges. 
Mr Lender offered to refund the last five lots of interest that Mr Y paid in order to resolve his 
complaint, amounting to £360. Mr Y declined this offer and brought his complaint to this 
Service. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ys complaint and found that, had Mr Lender carried out 
proportionate checks it would likely have seen that Mr Y was having problems managing his 
money as he had a number of outstanding loans with other short term lenders. He 
recommended that Mr Ys complaint be upheld and that Mr Lender refunds all the interest 
and charges Mr Y paid on this loan. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with this recommendation but offered to refund the last four lots of 
interest that Mr Y paid, along with the accompanying fees and usual compensatory interest. 
This offer amounted to approximately £380, which Mr Y also declined.
Mr Y asked for the case to come to an ombudsman for review and final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Office of Fair Trading was the regulator when Mr Y took out his loan. The relevant rules 
and guidance set out in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance said that Mr Lender needed to 
check that Mr Y could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant
Mr Y being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income without having to go 
without or borrow further. The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mr Y would be able to meet his repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr Y for information about his income when he applied for a loan, 
which it recorded as £1,750. Mr Lender says it carried out an employment check and a 
check with a third-party credit reference agency. Its summary information shows that Mr Y 
hadnt declared himself insolvent in the last three years but it doesnt show much detail 
beyond this.  
Our adjudicator found that Mr Lender should have carried out further checks before agreeing 
this loan for Mr Y and said it ought to have understood enough about Mr Ys finances to 
know whether or not he was borrowing from other short term lenders, given the amount hed 
need to repay relative to his income. He found that Mr Y was borrowing from several other 
short term lenders and so was likely to be having problems managing his existing financial 
commitments, let alone further credit.
Mr Lender says that its checks for this loan were proportionate and it seemed from the 
information it had gathered that the loan would be affordable for Mr Y. It pointed out that this 
was the first loan hed taken out and more comprehensive checks would not generally be 
warranted at this stage in a lending relationship. 
Let me start by saying that, whilst I acknowledge that less rigorous checks might be 
proportionate early on in a lending relationship, a lender has no less of an obligation to carry 
out a reasonable assessment of the risk to first time applicants (of not being able to meet 
their repayments sustainably) than it has in the case of returning applicants. 
Having thought about this matter carefully, I agree with our adjudicator and think Mr Lender 
ought to gone further in its checks. The second repayment on Mr Ys loan came to just over 
a quarter of his monthly income and, notwithstanding that this was his first loan with the 
lender, I think it would have been proportionate for it to have, at the least, gathered 
information about Mr Ys regular expenses to understand what level of disposable income he 
usually had available. I cant see that its done this here and so I dont think its checks were 
proportionate. I understand that Mr Y entered into a debt management plan (DMP) in late 2013. Mr Y has 
provided a copy of this (dated September 2013) and a copy of his credit file (dated January 
2017). The DMP records that Mr Y had an income of £1,900 and monthly living expenses of 
£1,170.  In addition, he had debts of almost £22,000 including credit card balances, 
overdrafts and the aforementioned short term lending. I appreciate that this budget was 
compiled several months after taking out his loan, but I think its reasonable to conclude that 
Mr Ys circumstances were similar at the time of taking out his loan and his credit file 
supports this.
Altogether, I think its unlikely that Mr Y would have been able to sustainably repay his loan, 
given this level of regular expenditure and assuming even a minimum level of repayment on 
his existing credit commitments. Mr Ys inability to repay the loan according to the agreed 
schedule bears this out. I think its likely Mr Lender would have understood that, had it 
looked further into Mr Ys circumstances and would have declined to lend to him. So I find it 
was irresponsible to have agreed to this loan. 
Putting things right
My conclusion is that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Mr Y in 
January 2013. In order to put things right for him, Mr Lender should
a. refund the interest and fees Mr Y paid; and
b. pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c. remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ys credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ys complaint and require
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender to put things right for him as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman