DRN-2860947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded the 
premium they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy in full.
All reference to URV includes its agents.
What happened
In early February 2020, Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip, platinum, travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by URV  which also included cruise cover (the policy). 
The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad which had been booked for 13 July 2020, for 
two weeks. Mr and Mrs H paid £402.64 for the policy and covered them for the medical 
conditions theyd declared when taking out the policy.  
In or around April/May 2020, the trip abroad was rearranged to June 2021 due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs H says the deposit theyd already paid for the trip was carried over 
to be used against the rearranged trip. 
Around the same time, Mr and Mrs H say they contacted URV to request a refund of the 
premium theyd paid for the policy. URV ultimately offered them a 50% refund of their 
premium (£201.32), in accordance with the terms and conditions of their policy. Mr and Mrs 
H didnt think that was fair so complained to URV. 
URV didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. But as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to 
refund 75% the premium (£301.97 in total). Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy so complained 
to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on
9 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
He thought URVs offer to refund 75% of the premium was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and want a refund of all the premium. They
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter afresh, so this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H says about legislation concerning 
frustrated contracts and Ive taken this into account as its relevant law in this particular case. 
However, as identified, and set out, by our investigator in his view, there are other rules, 
regulations and law which are also relevant to this complaint which Ive also taken into 
account.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy with URV set out their
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You may cancel this policy at any time, after the 14 day cooling off period. Should 
you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, and can 
confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not travelled, 
the following cancellation terms will be applied dependant on what type of policy you 
have purchased.
Single Trip policies  in the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on the
policy, a refund of 50% of the total premium you have paid will apply. If you have 
travelled or are intending to claim, or have made a claim (irrespective of whether your 
claim was successful or not) we will not consider refunding any proportion of your 
premium.
Im not upholding this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to 
refund to Mr and Mrs H 75% of the premium they paid is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for URV to offer a full refund,
as Mr and Mrs H have requested.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation occurs 
more than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, 
URV will consider a partial refund of 50% of the policy premium for single trip 
policies. By offering Mr and Mrs H 75% of their premiums back, URV has gone 
beyond what its required to offer under the contract of insurance.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
Covid-19. But Mr and Mrs H were covered from the 9 February 2020 for a number of 
listed events insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. 
Even if I was satisfied that Covid-19 and its impact was an unforeseen event at the 
time the policy was taken out on 9 February 2020, the law regarding frustration 
allows for a party who has gained a valuable non-monetary benefit under the contract 
before it becomes frustrated to be required to pay a just sum for it. As Ive explained 
above, Mr and Mrs H did have the benefit of the policy for a couple of months before 
they notified URV that they would not be going on their trip arranged for July 2020. 
And URV were on risk for a valid claim during that time.
If Mr and Mrs H wish to take up URVs offer of a refund of 75% of the premium, they should
contact URV directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman