DRN-3890947
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) gave him incorrect 
information regarding his account and then closed it and sent the outstanding debt to a third 
party debt collection agency. He wants the account re-opened. 
What happened
Mr C had a student account with an interest free overdraft facility with Halifax. From March 
2021 the outstanding balance on Mr Cs account was above his arranged overdraft limit of 
£1,500 meaning he was in unarranged overdraft. From April Halifax sent Mr C letters 
regarding this explaining if the account wasnt brought within its limit he wouldnt be able to 
use the account. As Mr C failed to bring his account back within its limit Halifax issued a 
formal demand on 13 October requesting full repayment of the outstanding balance.
On 18 October Halifax sent a generic letter saying the terms and conditions of Mr Cs 
student account were changing from 20 December, in that account holders could keep their 
interest free overdraft for a further three years after graduation. The letter also stated that 
this wouldnt apply while a customer was in a payment plan.
Mr C got in touch with Halifax on 8 November regarding these letters. Mr C confirmed he 
wanted to set up a repayment plan and that hed received the letter asking him to make 
payments and asks if he can make payments to bring the overdraft down. The Halifax 
advisor confirms he can but says it doesnt look like the account is in recoveries so he 
doesnt need to set up an arranged payment plan but that theyd just need to see money 
going into the account to bring the overdraft down. The advisor also confirms that any 
changes in the future will be communicated by letter.
On 19 November Halifax sent a letter asking for Mr C to either pay the balance of £92.09 or 
to get in touch within 30 days or it his account would be closed. As Mr C didnt do either 
Halifax sent a closure letter and Mr Cs account was closed, a default applied to his credit file 
and the outstanding debt sold to a third party. 
Mr C complained to Halifax that he was told if he was making payments to his account that it 
wouldnt be closed. Halifax said no errors were made in closing Mr Cs account but 
acknowledged there was some confusion during the process and offered Mr C £20 for this 
which Mr C declined.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong as it had issued the correct closure letter before closing the 
account and were entitled to do so as per the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 12 
December 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mr 
Cs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax has accepted my decision and Mr C would like to be compensated more, 
but neither party have added anything further.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
Mr C says Halifax was wrong to close his account as he was told as long as he was making 
payments his account would not be closed. 
So firstly, I need to consider whether Halifax did anything wrong in closing Mr Cs
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Cs account and registered a default. As prior to this happening for months 
Mr C had been over his overdraft limit which Halifax had written to him about. And directly 
following the phone call on 8 November I can see that Halifax sent Mr C a letter giving him 
30 days to get in touch or pay the outstanding balance or else his account would be closed. 
The letter also explains the consequences of what would happen if he didnt do this including 
how it may affect his credit file.
Following no payment or response from Mr C Halifax sent a closure letter, closed his 
account and registered the default.  So Im satisfied Halifax made no mistake here and was 
entitled to make the decision to close Mr Cs account as it gave Mr C the required notice and 
told him what was to happen if he didnt take appropriate action. 
However, although I dont think Halifax made a mistake in closing Mr Cs account, that is not 
to say it didnt make any mistakes along the way. Halifax has already acknowledged there 
was some confusion during the process and offered Mr C £20 compensation for this.
The confusion I believe relates to the phone conversation Mr C had with Halifaxs advisor on 
8 November following receipt of a formal demand letter for the outstanding balance on Mr 
Cs account in October. Ive listened to the recording of the phone call and I dont think the 
compensation Halifax offered of £20 is enough.  Mr C was told during the call his account 
was within its limit and not in recoveries and that he didnt need to set up an arranged 
payment plan. All Halifax needed was to see money coming into the account to bring down 
his overdraft. 
This advice was clearly in conflict with previous communications, but I think Mr C was 
entitled to rely on what he was told until that advice changed and there are further 
communications. So Im currently minded to direct Halifax to pay Mr C £100 compensation 
for the incorrect advice he was given during the phone call on 8 November.
I understand Mr C would like his account reopened on the basis he was given incorrect 
information. But even if he was given the correct information and Halifax hadnt made a mistake, I havent seen anything to persuade me the outcome would be any different. Mr Cs 
account was in arrears and Halifax followed the correct procedure in closing his account. 
Furthermore, although the account terms and conditions were changing on 20 December in 
that graduate customers would be given a further three years of an interest free overdraft  
this wouldnt have applied to Mr C as he was in arrears.
So it follows that I currently dont think Halifax made a mistake in closing Mr Cs account but 
I think Halifax should compensate Mr C £100 for the incorrect advice given to him during the 
phone call on 8 November.
I understand Mr C would like to be compensated further but from the information Ive been 
given Im not persuaded compensation above the £100 is warranted. So as neither party has 
provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and 
direct it pay the £100 fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman