DRN-2897933
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (UKI) for its failure to 
provide him with renewal documentation in an accessible format. He wants compensation 
and for the system to be changed so he receives correspondence in an accessible form 
going forward.   
What happened
Mr S holds landlords insurance with UKI.
Mr S has a disability which makes reading documents in standard format difficult. He has
previously been in touch with UKI to request his renewal documents in a different format and
his request was previously accommodated.
His insurance renewed in September 2020 and, around a month prior to this, UKI sent him
renewal documents by email, in the standard format.
Mr S contacted UKI and requested the documentation be re-sent to him in his requested 
format.
UKI re-sent the documentation and placed a manual prompt on Mr Ss account so that future 
documents will not be sent to him without checking his required format first.
Mr S complained to UKI and UKI acknowledged that it was aware of Mr Ss needs before the
renewal documents were sent out. 
UKI explained that its system does not allow changes to communication formats indefinitely 
so changes would only last the duration of the policy. Mr S would then need to request his 
required format again.
UKI acknowledged that Mr S did not appear to have been told that in advance, and that this
was a failing. UKI offered Mr S £75 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience in
having to contact UKI again, to request his documents in an accessible format.
Mr S was not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has considered this complaint and set out his view to the parties.
This was that Mr S was caused substantial distress and inconvenience and that UKI should
compensate this with £250 compensation.
UKI did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in June 2021 and invited both 
parties to comment and provide evidence in response to that decision. 
In that provisional decision I explained that it was not disputed that UKI had failed to carry 
forward the instruction and that this caused Mr S to have to contact UKI. The dispute was 
about the appropriate level of compensation. 
I considered that there had been significant distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S, but 
that I had not seen evidence of a severe effect upon him. I therefore considered that UKI 
ought to pay him £150 compensation. 
The parties have responded to that view. UKI has indicated that it considers that its original 
offer of £75 was appropriate to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and stressed 
that the failing was not advising Mr S that his request would not be automatically recognised. 
UKI has repeated that its system does not allow for changes to documentation on an 
individual ongoing basis. 
Mr S has responded setting out that he feels that UKI demonstrated a lack of empathy in its 
actions, and that he does not feel that £150 is reflective of the seriousness of that lack of 
empathy, nor of his stress and anxiety caused by having to raise the issue again. He says 
that he found it very stressful and upsetting to have to request the documents again and he 
was worried that he was missing important information in them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the business considers that it did all that it could, within the constraints of 
its system, and that it has now placed a system block on renewal information being sent so 
that Mr Ss requests can be adjusted into his required format before sending out. 
UKI considers that its failing was limited to not telling Mr S that he would need to request the 
documentation in his required form every year. I do not agree. UKI has demonstrated that it 
is able to take some manual steps outside its automated system to respect Mr Ss needs 
and I consider it should have done this at an earlier stage. 
I also understand Mr Ss feelings and that it is distressing to have his needs overlooked and 
to have to repeat his needs. I can appreciate that this was upsetting for him and caused him 
additional inconvenience. 
That said, our role is to look at compensating the consumer, in line with our compensation of 
consumers in similar situations. It is not to penalise the business, or to demonstrate our 
disapproval of the business actions. 
Mr S has described the impact upon him and, having considered this, I remain of the view 
that this was substantial rather than severe. As a result, I think that the sum of £150 is an 
appropriate award. 
I appreciate that Mr S does not think this sum is adequate, but I am satisfied that it is in line 
with other awards we would make in similar circumstances
Putting things right
I therefore adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by this decision, as my final 
decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to pay to Mr S £150 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman