DRN-4346621
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered 
around 76,351 miles.
In August 2022 Mr W complained to Black Horse. He said the engine had been remapped, 
there was a hissing noise from under the bonnet, the engine kept cutting out when the car 
was in cruise control and the steering wheel kept locking.
Black Horse issued a final response in October 2022. It said it wasnt upholding the 
complaint but offered £300 (without admission of liability) relating to the remapping of the 
engine.
In November 2022 Mr W raised a second complaint. He said the car had no diesel 
particulate filter (DPF).
Black Horse issued a final response in December 2022. It upheld the complaint and offered 
to pay for the cost of repairs.
In April 2023 Mr W raised a third complaint. He said the engine had seized.
Black Horse issued a final response in April 2023. It said it wasnt upholding the complaint 
because there was no evidence to show that the fault was present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Mr W was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
hadnt had the DPF replaced because there had been a delay in getting the car booked in at 
the garage and the engine had seized before the repairs could be carried out. Mr W said he 
thought the engine had seized due to a lack of lubrication caused by engine oil which had 
become contaminated because of the DPF not being present.
Our investigator explained that this service couldnt consider a complaint if it was referred 
more than 6 months after the date of the final response from the business. The investigator 
said that this rule meant that we couldnt look into the part of the complaint which led to the 
final response letter in October 2022. The investigator said that this service could look into 
the subject matter of the complaint which was addressed in the final response letters dated 
December 2022 and April 2023.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence that the DPF 
was missing when the car was supplied. He also said there wasnt any evidence to link the 
engine seizure with any of the previous issues.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the job sheet dated December 2022 stated that the DPF was 
knocked out and that this meant that it was missing. Mr W said that the original DPF pipe 
would be present, so the fact that the DPF was missing wouldnt necessarily be picked up at 
a MOT. Mr W said that a car with a missing DPF would still pass an MOT unless the soot 
emissions were high. Mr W said he understood that a second hand car would have wear and 
tear but he didnt think it was reasonable that a car should suffer catastrophic engine failure 
before the finance agreement was over.
Mr W also said that the reason he hadnt referred his complaint to this service in relation to 
his first complaint was because he was still within the warranty period, and he thought the 
car would be repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration the explanation provided by Mr W about why he didnt refer his 
complaint to this service within 6 months of the final response letter dated October 2022. I 
appreciate that Mr W had a warranty and that he hoped the car would be repaired. This 
service can only look at a late complaint if there are exceptional circumstances which meant 
that it couldnt be referred in time. Im not persuaded that the explanation provided by Mr W 
meets this requirement. So I wont be commenting on the part of Mr Ws complaint which 
was addressed in the final response letter dated October 2022, but I will comment on the 
parts of Mr Ws complaint which were addressed in the final response letters dated 
December 2022 and April 2023.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
car includes its general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr W was around 9 years old and had covered around 76,000 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the car already had a degree of wear and tear and that it was 
likely to require repairs sooner than a brand new car. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right.
After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available information about the issue which Mr W experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. I say this because 
the AA breakdown report dated February 2023 states that the engine has seized.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
As Ive said above, because the fault occurred more than 6 months after the point of supply, 
its up to Mr W to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
It isnt clear, from the information provided by Mr W, what has caused the engine to seize. 
This is important, because although Mr W has said that he thinks the missing DPF has caused the engine to seize, theres no independent mechanical evidence to support this. 
Ive had regard to the previous issues with the car. I can see that repairs were carried out in 
August 2022. These werent related to the DPF or the engine. The car has covered 6000 
miles since then, and theres no evidence that these issues have occurred again. Im 
therefore treating those repairs as having been successful, and not related to the current 
fault.
Ive reviewed the available information about the DPF. A job sheet dated December 2022 
refers to the DPF as being knocked out. It isnt clear from the job sheet whether this means 
that the DPF is missing or not.
I can see that the car passed an MOT in October 2021 just before it was supplied to Mr W. It 
also passed an MOT in November 2022. Theres nothing in the MOT information to suggest 
that the DPF is missing. If the DPF was missing, I would have expected this to be identified 
at the MOT. I appreciate that Mr W has said that a car can pass an MOT without a DPF if the 
emissions are low. However, I havent seen any independent engineering evidece to support 
this assertion and Im unable to treat what Mr W says as independent or expert evidence. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that theres enough evidence to show 
that the fault with the car was present or developing at the point of supply. So Im unable to 
say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  Im therefore unable to 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman