DRN-2982762
The complaint
Mr C complains about the time taken for Zopa Bank Limited to sell his loan parts he invested 
in through the crowdfunding platform. 
What happened
Mr C held a two loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding accounts with Zopa (a Classic and 
a Core account). Zopas platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in 
return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a 
borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At 
the time of Mr Cs complaint, Zopa provided a secondary market for investors to access their 
funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors.
In March 2020, Mr C decided he needed to access his funds held in his account, so he put
all of his loan parts up for sale on the secondary market. Zopa completed the sale of most of 
Mr Cs loan parts held within his Classic account on 24 April (there was around £20 still 
being lent at that time). However, the sale of all of his loan parts held within his Core account 
was ongoing as Zopa was only able to sell around £2,000 (with just under £800 still being 
lent as of April 2020).
Mr C complained to Zopa as his personal circumstances had changed and he needed 
access to all of the money he invested. He said he was never made aware that he couldnt 
access all of his funds immediately and felt Zopas communications around sale request 
timescales had been poor.
Zopa looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Zopa explained that in normal 
circumstances it takes around 20 working days to complete a loan sale, but it had recently 
sent an email to all investors in March 2020 to make them aware that it expected sales to 
take longer than normal due to an increase in loan sale requests as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. As such, Zopa felt that it hadnt failed to communicate delays to Mr C. 
Mr C didnt accept Zopas response and so he brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt think Zopa has acted unfairly. She 
said Zopa had clearly explained how he could access funds early from his account and that 
Zopa didnt guarantee the length of time a withdrawal process could take. She 
acknowledged the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on sale requests and said that 
as there werent enough new investors available to take on the loan parts, this
effectively created an unbalanced supply and demand situation. And Zopa had to put a 
queue system in place in order to manage the withdrawal requests.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion as he feels hes waited an unacceptable amount 
of time to receive all of his funds. He says hes had to borrow money to cover his living costs 
and has had to use his bank overdraft which has resulted in interest charges. Mr C also says 
hes spent a lot of time chasing Zopa, all at a time when he was under immense personal 
stress and pressure.
As Mr Cs remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C feels he should be able to access all of the funds he invested through 
Zopas platform upon request. And whilst I understand he has an immediate need for the 
money, I dont think Zopa has misled him about the process which he must follow to do so, 
nor did it guarantee how long this would take. 
When Mr C opened his account, he agreed to Zopas investor principles. Principle 7  
Getting your money back explained:
If you need to access money you've lent before it's due to be repaid, you can use 
the tool on your Zopa dashboard to sell loans within your loan book to the secondary 
market unless the loan customers are not up to date with their repayments.
[]
We can't guarantee that we'll find a match for you. Some of your loans may be 
ineligible for sale, or other investors may not be available to buy them. If, after 
multiple attempts, we're unable to sell them we'll let you know we're taking the loans 
off the market, and you can choose to wait until they mature, or try to sell your 
eligible loans at a later date.
It's clear from the principle above that Mr C would need to sell his loan parts on the 
secondary market if he wanted access to his money early and Principle 11  Ending this 
agreement also explained that all funds invested would need to be withdrawn before his 
accounts could be closed. 
Im satisfied that Zopa instigated Mr Cs sale requests, but I dont think it can be held 
responsible for not all of his loan parts selling on the secondary market. The Covid-19 
pandemic is evidently a contributing factor here. Zopa explained that it had seen increased 
sale requests at the time of Mr C putting his loan parts up for sale. And that this, coupled 
with there being less appetite from investors to purchase loan parts on the secondary 
market, meant that Mr Cs loan parts didnt all sell within the usual 20 working days 
timeframe. So whilst I appreciate this delay has been inconvenient for Mr C, especially 
considering he urgently needed the money, I dont think Zopa are at fault.
Its important to consider that Zopa didnt guarantee how long it would take for Mr Cs loan 
parts to sell nor did it guarantee that he would be able to sell all of his loan parts by way of 
the secondary market. The investor principles explained that sale request process would be wholly dependent on there being demand from investors and so I dont think Zopa has 
misled Mr C in this respect.
I also dont agree that Zopa has failed to keep him updated. Zopa has provided a copy of an 
email it sent all investors in March 2020. This email explained there had been an increase in 
the number of requests to withdraw money from the platform and whilst Zopa continued to 
process loan sales, the high demand had an impact on the speed in which it could do so. It 
also explained that it had set up a queue system in order to process these requests but that 
it couldnt guarantee a timeframe. I think that it was reasonable for Zopa to set up a 
queueing system as it ensured that it treated all investors fairly and whilst I understand not 
having definitive timescales would have been frustrating for Mr C, I dont think Zopa was in a 
position to give any. This is because the demand for buying loan parts on the secondary 
market was out of Zopas control. 
Zopa also informed investors in the email that they could turn off reinvestment which would 
allow them to withdraw payments as they gradually come into their holding accounts. And so 
I think it fully informed Mr C of his options whilst he waited for his loan parts to potentially 
sell. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Zopa has acted fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman