DRN-3878970
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly closed its business 
account because of an issue with the directors residential address. 
T is represented in its complaint by a director of T, Ms W.
What happened
In early January 2022, Starling gave T two months written notice of its intention to close its 
business account. 
Initially, Starling told T that it had taken the decision because it couldnt support a PO box 
address as the registered office for T. After Ms W explained the PO box address wasnt Ts 
registered office address, Starling said it had meant Ms Ws personal address.
After Ms W said that T was a separate legal entity to her, Starling said there was a 
regulatory requirement to identify anybody associated with T. As Ms W is the sole director of 
T and uses a PO Box, Starling said it could no longer provide banking facilities to T.
Starling offered T £150 to apologise for any confusion caused about its reasons for closing 
the account.
The investigator thought that Starlings offer was reasonable. He didnt think Starling acted 
unfairly when it closed Ts account. The investigator asked Starling to give T a closing bank 
statement and respond to Ms Ws subject access request (SAR).
Ms W was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Ms W thought wed overlooked 
the time shed spent asking Starling whether it was going to close Ts business account as 
well as her personal account. 
Ms W said there was no legal requirement to provide a residential address for a business 
account if she could prove she was a UK resident. Ms W said she couldve proved her 
identity and residency by video means.
Ms W was generally unhappy with the way Starling has handled everything. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
I can see that Ms W told the investigator that Ts complaint wasnt so much about the 
grounds on which Starling close its account, but the way it did so, including the tone of 
correspondence on the subject. Im aware that this service also dealt with Ms Ws complaint 
about the closure of her personal bank account with Starling. But my decision deals solely 
with Ts complaint. As T is a limited company and so its own legal entity, I cant consider any 
upset Ms W has felt personally at the way in which Starling handled the closure of Ts 
account. I can only consider whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably towards T.
Starling confirms that it has a policy that all customers hold a UK residential address. And 
that as Ms W is the sole director of T and doesnt have a UK residential address, it cant 
provide T with banking services. I appreciate Ms Ws frustration with the decision to close Ts 
business account but I think this was a commercial decision that Starling was entitled to 
make. Starlings account terms and conditions allow it to close a customers account by 
giving two months notice. Starling has given this service evidence that in early January 
2022, it gave T two months notice. As I dont find that Starling made a mistake, I dont 
require it to compensate T for the time spent switching banks. 
I can see Starling wasnt always as clear as it couldve been about whether its concerns over 
Ms Ws residential address would impact Ts business account. And when Starling first gave 
the reason for closing Ts business account, it mistakenly said it was because it couldnt 
support a PO Box address as Ts registered office address. In recognition of any failings in 
its customer service, Starling offered to pay T £150 compensation. I consider this offer to be 
a fair way to resolve Ts complaint. 
When Ms W originally complained, she hadnt received a closing statement for the business 
account. Im happy that this has now been received so I dont make any further direction 
about this. 
Finally, Ms W is unhappy about Starlings response to the SAR she made about Ts 
business account. As Starling told Ms W, a limited company cant make a SAR (although a 
director can). However, this service isnt free to consider every complaint thats brought to 
us. The rules that govern us  known as the DISP rules  are set by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority and can be found in its handbook.
DISP 2.7.1 says that a complaint may only be dealt with by this service if it is brought by or 
on behalf of an eligible complainant. To be an eligible complainant, the complainant must 
meet the definition of one of the entities set out in DISP 2.7.3 and the complaint would have 
to arise from matters relevant to one of the relationships found in DISP 2.7.6. 
Some of the categories of person able to bring a complaint is consumer or 
microenterprise. T has referred the complaint to this service and meets the definition of a 
microenterprise. But T doesnt have a relationship with Starling in relation to any delay in the 
SAR being received because the information requested was Ms Ws personal information as 
director. So, I dont say anything further about this aspect of the complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider Starling 
has already done and offered enough to put things right for T. 
My final decision
Starling Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle Ts complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that if it hasnt already 
done so, Starling Bank Limited should pay T £150. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman