DRN-2004890
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Covea Insurance plc handled a claim on her car insurance 
policy. Shes also unhappy with the settlement offered for her car after it was written off.
What happened
Miss C was involved in an incident with another vehicle in January 2020. She called Covea 
to raise a claim at the beginning of the following month. After she didnt hear anything for a 
couple of weeks, she called again for an update to find the claim hadnt been progressed.
After this Covea progressed the claim and Miss Cs car was deemed a total loss. To settle 
the claim, they offered Miss C £1,275 (minus the policy excess) which they had calculated 
was the pre-accident market value of her car. 
Miss C disagreed with the valuation and raised a complaint. She said shed seen adverts for 
the same car with similar mileage for £2,000. And when she bought the car, she had paid 
£1,800. She also complained about delays with her claim being progressed and the 
customer service she had received over the phone.
Covea investigated the complaint and said they hadnt progressed Miss Cs claim as quickly 
as they shouldve and offered £125 for the inconvenience caused. However, they maintained 
the valuation of her car had been calculated correctly and the offer they had made was in 
line with the policy terms.
 
Miss C was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. An investigator here 
looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said the settlement offered by 
Covea was in line with the valuations on the industry guides and so she didnt think they had 
to offer Miss C anything further to settle the claim. However, the investigator said Covea 
couldve provided Miss C with better customer service when she called to discuss the claim. 
She recommended Covea offer Miss C a further £50 in recognition of the service she 
received.
Covea agreed to the investigators recommendations. Miss C disagreed as she still thought 
the settlement offered for her car wasnt high enough, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Car valuation
Our approach is to consider whether Covea have settled Miss Cs claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of her policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the 
policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Covea have acted fairly. I can see 
they say in the event the car cant be repaired, Covea wont pay more than the market value 
of the car at the time of the loss.
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is to look at motor trade guides for 
valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction 
prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into 
account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.
 
Ive checked three motor trade guides for the value of Miss Cs vehicle at the time of the 
incident and they produced the following valuations: Cap £1,125; Glass £1,275 and Cazana 
£828.
Covea have offered Miss C £1,295 which is in line with the highest value given and I think 
this was reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not persuaded that Covea need offer 
Miss C anything further toward the settlement for her car.
 
Customer Service
Ive looked at the history of the claim to see whether Covea progressed it promptly and fairly 
and kept her informed of progress.
 
I can see Miss C informed Covea of the claim in the beginning of February 2020. But nothing 
further was done until Miss C called them for an update almost two weeks later. Covea 
confirmed that Miss Cs claim was overlooked, and it wasnt progressed as expected  I 
dont think this was reasonable, and its clear a mistake was made here. Covea offered £125 
for the inconvenience caused. And I can see that once Covea were aware of the situation, 
they progressed the claim quickly.
 
Ive also listened to the calls Miss C had with Covea about her claim and her complaint. 
There were a number of occasions where the advisor spoke over Miss C or interrupted her 
when she was talking. Throughout the call, I can hear that Miss C gets frustrated at the 
situation. And I think her upset and frustration is evident from the calls given Miss C had 
explained she was upset about the situation. 
Putting things right
To reflect the poor service in delay and how Miss C was dealt with Im satisfied £175 overall 
is a fair reflection.
My final decision
Covea Insurance plc must pay Miss C £175 compensation in total (and it can reduce this by 
any compensatory amount already paid).
Covea must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman