DRN-1643863
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined their application for a mortgage 
after accepting it in principle.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R enquired about taking out a mortgage with HSBC at the end of 2018. HSBC 
offered a decision in principle to accept the application. 
Based on this, Mr and Mrs R put an offer in on a property that was accepted. However when 
they applied for the mortgage with HSBC they were declined. 
Mr and Mrs R made a complaint to HSBC as they said they had provided the same 
information for the application as they did for the decision in principle. They also said it 
wasnt fair that HSBC hadnt given them a reason for the declination.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said the decision in principle isnt a guaranteed offer 
and its full assessment of the mortgage criteria meant it was unable to offer the requested 
lending.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think it was fair for the application to be declined and no explanation 
given. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
She said HSBC set its own lending criteria and from the evidence she had seen it had 
applied this fairly. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree it was a fair decision as the information they provided was the 
same as for the decision in principle. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint I have looked at whether HSBC has treated Mr and Mrs R 
fairly when handling their mortgage application. I have done this by looking at the information 
it based its decision on, to assess whether it made a fair decision based on its own lending 
criteria.
Mr and Mrs R say they provided the same information for the decision in principle as they did 
for the full application. They therefore think it was unfair that the outcome was different. 
When a broker issues a decision in principle, this is an indication of what it is likely to lend to 
its customer based on the information its seen. However this will usually be subject to further checks. As the checks carried out for a decision in principle are far less in-depth than 
for a full application.
I have looked at the decision in principle that was issued to Mr and Mrs R in 
December 2018. It states as follows:
This is an indication of the amount that we may be able to lend you. It is not an offer, 
however, and must not be treated as one. Before lending you money:
1.We will want to be sure that you can afford the payments. We will therefore carry out 
a full credit assessment and you will need to meet our application criteria. 
So I think HSBC made it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the decision in principle wasnt a 
guarantee that the mortgage would be approved, and that it would be subject to further 
checks.
I have also considered the information HSBC based its decision on. For the decision in 
principle HSBC just assessed the lending based on Mr Rs current salary. However for the 
full application HSBC looked at a wider range of information, including income over the 
previous two years. It then applied its internal lending criteria. Based on this criteria it 
decided that Mr and Mrs R didnt meet its requirements for lending the amount they applied 
for.
It isnt my role to tell HSBC who it should lend to. Or to assess its own lending criteria. 
Having looked at the information requested, and the checks that HSBC has carried out, I 
think it acted fairly when handling the application. The fact that further checks were carried 
out to assess previous salaries for the full application, explains why there was a difference 
from the decision in principle. HSBC made it clear in the decision in principle that there 
would be further checks and it wasnt a guaranteed offer. I therefore think HSBC has treated 
Mr and Mrs R fairly and I wont require it to do anything further or differently.
Further HSBCs lending criteria isnt something it shares as it is commercially sensitive. I 
therefore agree that HSBC acted fairly by not sharing further information about the 
application with Mr and Mrs R.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given, I wont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything differently 
or in addition.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman