DRN-4324359
The complaint
Mr J complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has turned down a 
sickness claim he made on a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I consider to be the main events.
Mr J is insured under a personal sick pay policy. The policy deferred period was four 
weeks.
In March 2023, Mr J was signed-off work with depression. He was prescribed medication. So 
he made a sickness claim on the policy.
LV assessed the available medical evidence, including Mr Js fit notes; GP records and an 
occupational health (OH) report. It concluded that Mr Js absence was down to work-related 
issues and other stressors in his personal life. So it didnt think Mr J had provided enough 
objective medical evidence to show that an illness prevented him from working. And 
therefore, it turned down Mr Js claim.
Mr J was unhappy with LVs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
subsequently provided LV with further medical evidence in support of his claim, including a 
letter from his GP, dated 28 June 2023. But LV still didnt think Mr J had shown he had a 
valid claim on the policy.
Our investigator didnt think LV had treated Mr J unfairly. He considered all of the medical 
evidence which had been available to LV at the time it assessed the claim, up to and 
including the doctors letter of 28 June 2023. And he didnt think it had been unfair for LV to 
conclude that Mr Js absence was most likely down to work-related concerns. So he felt it 
had been fair for LV to turn down Mr Js claim.
Mr J disagreed. In summary, he felt that he had provided sufficient evidence, from a number 
of doctors, which showed he was suffering from depression. He provided us with evidence of 
the medication he was prescribed, which he felt would affect his ability to do his job. And he 
sent us further medical evidence, dated September 2023, which he thought we should take 
into account when deciding his complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I think it was fair for LV to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr J that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules require 
me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
I must also make it clear that this decision will only take into account the medical evidence 
which was available to LV when it assessed Mr Js claim; when it issued its final response to 
Mr Js complaint and at the point it assessed the GPs further letter of 28 June 2023. Mr J 
has now provided us with a copy of a medical report dated September 2023 and he says this 
has also been sent to LV. I appreciate how strongly he feels that I should consider this new 
evidence as part of my decision. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on 
new evidence before LV has had a chance to review it and provide its response. Thats 
because we are not a claims handler and it isnt our role to assess claims. My role is to 
decide whether LV treated Mr J fairly based on the evidence available to it at the time it 
assessed the claim and investigated his complaint. If Mr J is unhappy with the outcome of 
LVs review of the new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint about that issue 
alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Js policy and the medical evidence, to decide whether I think LV treated Mr 
J fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as they form the basis of Mr Js contract 
with LV. Mr J made a sickness claim on the policy, as he said he was unable to work due to 
depression. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for LV to decide whether Mr J met 
the policy terms. Ive set out the applicable terms below:
Youre covered
If youre unable to work because youre ill or have had an accident. 
Well pay you if youre too unwell to work in your own occupation (due to illness or injury 
only) and you arent doing any other paid or unpaid work  for example, voluntary work.
Unable to work is specifically defined in the contract terms. The definition says:
Unable to work means that due to illness or injury you cannot carry out the main tasks of 
your occupation, and you arent doing any other type of work whether this is paid or 
voluntary (unpaid) work. The main tasks are the parts of the job you do which cant 
reasonably be left out, or changed.
This means that in order for LV to pay sickness benefit, it must be satisfied that a 
policyholders illness prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own 
occupation, for the deferred period and beyond. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Js responsibility to provide LV with enough evidence to 
demonstrate that his illness led to him being unable to work in line with the policy terms, for 
the entire deferred period of four weeks and afterwards. And he also needed to show that his 
illness would prevent him from carrying out his own occupation for any employer  not just 
his current one. 
LV assessed the evidence Mr J provided in support of his claim and concluded that it didnt indicate that that hed shown he met the policy definition of unable to work and that instead, 
his absence was likely down to workplace issues. So Ive next looked at the available 
medical evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for LV to draw.
First, Ive considered Mr Js GP records, which set out details of Mr Js consultations. The 
first entry is dated 30 March 2023. A mental health nurse noted:
(Mr J) is now under investigation(Mr J) is feeling depressed in mood and feels like he 
needs support at this time(Mr J) has requested a sick noteas he does not feel medically 
fit to attend meetings for the investigation.
The nurse noted a diagnosis of depressive disorder and provided Mr J with a fit note 
signing him off work. He was also prescribed an anti-depressant medication, along with 
sleeping medication.
On 24 April, a GP noted: 
Review of medicationstill struggle with low mood. Some unresolved sentiments with work 
and colleaguesstill reporting not fit to return
The GPs records refer to a situation at work, which had ended, but stated that Mr J still had 
trouble with his colleagues. A further fit note was issued which gave Mr Js cause of absence 
as depression.
Mr J saw his employers OH in May 2023 and Ive looked carefully at their report. Following 
an earlier absence in September 2022, the OH report noted that Mr J:
informed me that he experienced several workplace stressors upon his return to work. He 
cited concerns around high demands, a lack of control and a perception that he was not 
being supported in work.
(Mr J) explained he started to experience difficulty sleeping, loss of appetite, feeling 
hopeless and worrying about a personal concern that has impacted him financially. He 
described (a workplace incident) and stated his health further declined. He engaged with his 
GP and was signed off from work and prescribed suitable medication. He has engaged with 
your EAP for counselling support
(Mr J) reported he has had no meetings with the workplace to discuss the concerns. He 
expressed he feels unable to attend such a meeting until he has completed his current 
episode of sick leave. I advised that unless the workplace concerns are addressed, it may 
take him longer to recover and impact his eventual return to work.
(Mr J) was engaged with the assessment and provided a thorough history. However, he is 
doing very little at present and seldom leaves his home. He appeared resistant to my 
suggestions about self-managing his recovery and addressing the workplace matters.
The OH concluded that Mr J was temporarily unfit for work and noted that Mr J had been 
signed-off for a further three months. They added:
To address the workplace perceptions, I recommend a workplace meeting is arranged to 
help support (Mr J) when he is then ready to return to work, and to enable him to keep in 
touch with work regarding the present situation, in around 3-4 weeks to allow for any 
adjustments to his medication and for (Mr J) to access some more counselling.
LV assessed the available medical and other evidence. While it sympathised with Mr Js position, it concluded that the evidence didnt indicate he was suffering from a mental illness 
which prevented him from carrying out his role. Instead, it felt that Mr J was suffering with a 
reaction to his circumstances, It didnt think there was objective medical evidence to suggest 
that Mr J was suffering with a significant mental health condition of a severity which would 
result in him being unable to work.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I must make it clear that Im not a medical expert and 
therefore, my decision must necessarily be based on an assessment of the available 
medical evidence. Its clear that Mr J was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition. But at the point Mrs G was signed-off in 
March 2023, the evidence indicates that the reason he wasnt fit for work was because he 
wasnt coping with a potential investigation at work, rather than because of a significant, 
impairing mental health condition. And the OH report concluded that Mr J had experienced 
several work-place stressors, including an incident which appears to have resulted in the 
planned investigation. While I appreciate Mr Js fit notes stated depression at this time, the 
notes dont indicate how Mr J was precluded from work in March or April 2023 and nor do 
they show, objectively, why or how he was functionally impaired when the deferred period 
began.
So I think it was reasonable for LV to conclude that the evidence showed Mr J was suffering 
from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which he found himself, as 
opposed to a mental health condition which met the definition of unable to work for the 
whole of the deferred period. This means I dont think it was unfair for LV to consider that Mr 
J hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity for the entirety of the deferred period when it 
initially assessed the claim.
Mr J provided LV with further evidence from an online GP and two letters from his GP 
surgery. The first GPs letter is dated 8 June 2023 and says:
Mr J isa gentleman with a diagnosis of Depression and currently on medications for his 
mental illness. 
Due to his condition, he has been unable to work and has been given a sick note for 3 
months which may be extended if required. 
The online GPs letter is dated 20 June 2023. This letter stated that due to Mr Js 
depression, he had been unable to fulfil the duties of his work and explained how some of Mr 
Js symptoms could affect his ability to do his job.
A further GP letter was dated 28 June 2023 and stated:
(Mr J) has requested a letter from us. I confirm he has depression and has been signed off 
with this. He states he lacks the ability to concentrate, and his depression affects his ability 
to focus and maintain attention on tasks at work. He lacks focus which could be dangerous 
in his work.
He lacks energy and is constantly fatigued and suffers sleep disturbance and insomnia 
which impacts negatively on his mood energy levels and ability to concentrate at work.
He has ongoing panic attacks and anxiety which makes it hard to cope with stressful 
situations at work and his depression affects his decision making leading to self-doubts and 
fears about work.
He continues to feel very negative about life in general. He continues to take medication 
from us for these problems but feels unable to work at this time.LV reviewed the new evidence and following the GPs letter of 28 June 2023, it asked the 
GP for more information, which was provided to LV. I think this was a fair and appropriate 
step for LV to take. The GPs response included the following note dated 6 June 2023:
Known mild depressionPatient said he noticed improvement in his mood with (anti-
depressant medication) and would be happy to continueWould like a letter from GP to 
submit to pay protection insurance mentioning his diagnosis and medication for this.
Having assessed the new medical evidence, LV maintained its position. It said that the 
majority of the consultations point to a depressed low mood, which isnt depression and it 
said the later entry referred to mild depression.  It stated that a depression diagnosis and 
medication doesnt mean that a person is unable to work. It pointed to the fact that much of 
the evidence referred to Mr Js issues with work and the potential workplace investigation. 
So it still felt there was no objective medical evidence which supported a claim.
Again, Ive considered this evidence carefully. But I dont think LV has reached an 
unreasonable conclusion. The GPs letters seem to be based on Mr Js self-reporting of his 
symptoms. The online GP didnt examine Mr J in person. And there remains reference to Mr 
Js fears about work. I agree too that the GPs records suggest that Mr J had mild 
depression and dont indicate that Mr J was significantly functionally impaired. So I dont 
think LV acted unfairly when it concluded that this evidence didnt show Mr J was unable to 
work in line with the policy terms.
I appreciate Mr J says his medication could affect his ability to do his job. But the GPs 
letters dont state that Mr J couldnt do his job because of the medication he was taking. And 
the medication information leaflet he sent us only says that the medication could influence a 
patients ability to do certain things (such as driving) and that a person should wait to find out 
how the medication affected them before attempting to undertake those activities.
Overall then, I dont think it was unfair for LV to conclude that the June 2023 evidence didnt 
change its position and to maintain its decision that Mr J hadnt shown he met the policy 
definition of unable to work during the full deferred period and afterwards. 
I sympathise with Mr Js position and I accept that medical professionals have found that he 
is unable to work. But that isnt enough to show that a claim meets an insurers policy terms. 
And based on all Ive seen, Ive decided that LV didnt act unfairly when it relied on the 
medical evidence up to and including 28 June 2023, to conclude that Mr Js claim wasnt 
covered. So I find it was fair for LV to turn down Mr Js claim. 
As Ive set out above, Mr J indicated hes sent LV a copy of the new medical evidence hes 
obtained, which is dated September 2023. If hes unhappy with the outcome of any 
assessment of that evidence by LV, he may be able to make a new complaint about that 
issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman