DRN-4080281
The complaint and background
Via a representative, Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday 
Loans, lent to him irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He 
would like all the fees and charges associated with the loans refunded, as well as any 
negative information removed from his credit file.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from February 2023, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I wasnt 
planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I didnt think the evidence ought 
to have led Everyday Loans to conclude that either of the two loans in question were 
unaffordable for Mr B.
I asked both Mr B and Everyday Loans to let me have any more information they wanted me 
to consider. Everyday Loans had nothing further to add. Although accepting my findings for 
loan one, Mr Bs representatives have come back at some length with several points which 
they say should lead to loan two being upheld, which I will respond to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What happened
In July 2018 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £2,000 for Mr B, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £187 per month over a term of 24 months. The loan was 
intended to pay for car repairs. When assessing the application, Everyday Loans asked 
Mr B about his financial circumstances; reviewed bank statements; and carried out a 
credit check before approving the lending.
In March 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £3,000 for Mr B, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £286 per month over a term of 24 months. The 
loan was intended to settle the first loan and give Mr B some funds for a holiday. When 
assessing the application, Everyday Loans asked Mr B about his financial 
circumstances; reviewed bank statements; and carried out a credit check before 
approving the lending. Mr B settled the loan as planned in March 2021.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Everyday Loans didnt do 
anything wrong when it granted loan one, but he thought that loan two ought not to 
have been given. Everyday Loans didnt accept that, and asked an ombudsman to 
look at the case.
Mr Bs representatives had nothing further to add.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently not planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Loan one
The adjudicator set out that he thought, given Mr Bs problematic credit history, Everyday 
Loans ought to have sought out more recent information from Mr B. But that there was no 
evidence of financial difficulties or anything else to suggest that the loan shouldnt have been 
granted.
Following that view, Mr Bs representatives provided us with copies of Mr Bs bank statements 
relevant to the month just before this loan was granted. Those statements showed no signs of 
financial problems for Mr B. They showed that he was managing his credit commitments well 
and had a modest amount of disposable income each month. Therefore, had Everyday Loans 
gathered further evidence about Mr Bs most recent financial circumstances, it would not have 
made any difference.
So I agree with the adjudicators view that there is no evidence to uphold Mr Bs complaint 
about loan one.
Loan two
The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans checks went far enough when considering this 
application. I agree.
However, he had understandable concerns about the speed with which Mr B came back to 
Everyday Loans for extra borrowing, and that this loan led to him having to spend a sizeable 
proportion of his monthly income on managing his credit commitments.
In response, Everyday Loans highlighted that Mr B had no dependants; comparatively low 
housing expenses; and that there were no signs of substantial difficulties on the bank 
statements they saw.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence in respect of this loan, the outcome of which is in 
my view particularly finely balanced.
Ultimately, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support a finding that loan two was 
unaffordable and unsustainable for Mr B. I reach that conclusion for the following reasons:
The bank statements show no signs of difficulty, such as returned payments, and Mr B 
was almost always in credit, with occasional, very brief, periods minimally overdrawn.
Mr B had managed his payments on loan one with Everyday Loans with no difficulties.
The calculations done through the I&E appear to be sound, and it was reasonable for 
Everyday Loans to be satisfied that after all his commitments had been taken into 
account, Mr B would have been left with a healthy disposable income.
So, based on the available evidence, I cannot reach a finding that Everyday Loans ought to 
have identified that this borrowing would not be sustainable for Mr B when it assessed his 
application. It therefore follows that I do not currently plan to uphold this complaint.
Mr Bs representatives have raised several points, which I will deal with in turn.
Firstly, they say that the bank statements obtained by Everyday Loans show that Mr B was 
dependent on borrowing both from other high-cost lenders, and his partner, in order to survive. In saying that, they have particularly highlighted that Mr B received a one-off bonus 
from his employer at the end of February 2019, meaning that the bank statements for March 
are not a true reflection of his circumstances. I accept that, and have continued to focus 
as requested on statements from January and February 2019 which were gathered by 
Everyday Loans. And I dont accept that those statements show reliance on high-cost credit 
or Mr Bs partner.
I can see two examples of borrowing from other high-cost lenders. One was for a modest 
amount of £80. The other for a much larger amount of £450. However, I can also see that Mr 
B made payments totalling almost the same amount to that lender on the exact same day 
that he received the funds. Ive found no evidence of previous loans from that lender, which 
might account for such transactions. I havent been able to identify a persuasive explanation 
for those payments. But the information Ive got in no way supports a conclusion of reliance 
on high-cost credit. In the longer term, the credit file shows only the £80 payday loan  
nothing else. I will discuss this in more detail shortly.
The question of reliance on a partner is, of course, more nuanced. There may be the 
question of joint expenses which leads one partner to transfer money to another. It may also 
be the case that one partner earns more than the other and that offering some financial 
support is an accepted part of the relationship, rather than a problematic reliance. Ultimately, 
I havent found evidence which persuades me there was a problem here that should have 
led to the declinature of the loan application.
Of note, I havent seen evidence of the receipt of the funds from his partner that Mr Bs 
representative has described for February 2019. They have cited an amount of over £600 
being provided by Mr Bs partner that month  I can only find evidence on the statements of 
circa £160. (Again, I would underline here that the relevant evidence are the statements 
obtained and seen by Everyday Loans. If Mr Bs representatives have included additional 
evidence in their calculations, that wont be relevant.) Additionally, I can see that Everyday 
Loans queried those transfers at the time, and had handwritten partner  food on the 
statements. It would therefore seem likely that Mr B had offered an explanation relating to 
shared day to day expenses for those transfers, which I think it was reasonable for Everyday 
Loans to accept.
In respect of January 2019, I can clearly see that Mr Bs partner transferred around £426, as 
set out by his representatives. However, I can also see that he transferred around £175 to 
her during the course of the month. So, as already described, transference of money 
between partners isnt necessarily a clear sign of financial distress which should lead a 
potential lender to decline an application for a loan. (As an aside, following the receipt of the 
one-off bonus at the end of February 2019, the transfers to and from his partner continued. 
This is as might be expected between cohabiting partners and doesnt necessarily signify 
reliance.)
Mr Bs representatives highlighted that Mr B hadnt managed his payments to Everyday 
Loans for loan one without difficulties. They say that it is evident from the credit file obtained 
by Everyday Loans that, after taking out loan one, Mr B took ten payday loans between 
March 2018 and February 2019. And so he was clearly reliant on them. However, this is 
factually incorrect. As already mentioned, the credit file shows only one payday loan taken 
out by Mr B (although I can see another one from the bank statements). The loans listed by 
Mr Bs representative by date were actually taken out by his partner, not him. Their finances 
were linked and her information is also within the credit file reviewed by Everyday Loans. But 
it is clear they are hers, not his. I can see no evidence of repeated declined applications by 
Mr B during the timeframe in question, so I cannot conclude that Mr Bs partner took out 
these loans for him. So this isnt relevant to my considerations.Mr Bs representatives dispute that the I&E completed by Everyday Loans contained sound 
calculations and say that the true reflection of his circumstances is found in the bank 
statements. I agree. And I have already dealt with the evidence from the bank statements 
above and explained why I dont think that evidence ought to have led Everyday Loans to 
decline Mr Bs application.
Finally, Mr Bs representatives highlight that a few days before he applied for loan two, his 
bank balance was just over £100. And so, therefore, they say that:
This meant that going forward, there was a good chance that he would need to rely 
on high-cost credit or borrowing from his partner to get him through the following 
month.
I dont follow that logic. Its clear that Mr B received his salary on the 28th of the month. And 
the date theyve highlighted is 18 March 2019. So, he didnt have a month to get himself 
through before he would be paid. Him having only £100 left ten days before receiving his 
salary is no way equates to there being, a good chance that he would need to rely on 
high-cost credit But I dont think that is a particularly unusual position to be in, and there is 
no reason to suppose that Mr Bs expenses over the course of those ten days would be 
more than the funds available.
Having considered all his representatives submissions, I still dont find compelling evidence 
to lead me to conclude that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in granting these 
loans to Mr B. So I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Everyday Loans doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman