DRN-3502107
The complaint
Mr W complains NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr W was accepted for a NewDay branded credit card in October 2014, with a £900 credit
limit. The credit limit was later increased to;
£1,900 in February 2015
£2,500 in July 2015
£3,600 in January 2017
£5,100 in June 2017
Mr W complained to NewDay that they had irresponsibly lent to him. NewDay did not uphold
his complaint. They said that Mr W told them as part of his application, he was employed
with gross earnings of £30,000 and he had unsecured debt of £1,300. They also said that
their checks with credit reference agencies showed that he had no defaults or County Court
Judgements (CCJs), he had no accounts in arrears and he had four accounts in total, so
they accepted Mr Ws application and gave him an initial £900 credit limit.
NewDay said that when they increased Mr Ws credit limit, they gave him the chance to opt
out of an increase and they also looked at several factors before increasing his credit limit
such as instances of him exceeding his credit limit and any late or missed payments, the
payments he made, the proportion of the credit limit he used, internal and external payment
plans, pay day loan history, arrears status of external accounts and the overall external
credit he had access to and utilised. NewDay said that when Mr W had informed them of
financial difficulty in late 2020, they applied a three month payment holiday, which they
extended for a further three months in February 2021.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ws
complaint. She said that while the initial credit limit and the first credit increase to £1,900 was
proportionate, the credit increase to £2,500 was not proportionate as Mr W was using the
majority of his credit limit, Mr W was charged an overlimit fee at the time his credit limit was
increased and he was typically making minimum monthly repayments. She said that when
Mr W had been making larger repayments, he had then been taking cash withdrawals in the
same month.
Our investigator said that as she had already concluded the credit limit in July 2015 was
granted irresponsibly, the subsequent lending decisions should be upheld without making a
finding on reasonable and proportionate checks, as if matters had played out as the
evidence suggested they should have done in July 2015, she wasnt persuaded that Mr W
wouldve been able to add to the credit granted at that time. She also said shed seen no
improvement to Mr Ws financial situation between July 2015 and the last credit limit
increase of June 2017.
Our investigator said NewDay should refund all interest and charges occurred since the
credit limit increased in July 2015. If this showed hed paid too much, NewDay should refund
him any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest. And NewDay should work with Mr W to
maintain a suitable repayment plan. She also said that NewDay should remove any adverse
information that had been recorded on Mr Ws credit file from the date of the July 2015
increase.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said our investigator
stated she thought they should uphold Mr Ws complaint from the second credit limit
increase because, in the months shortly before the increase, he was near his credit limit, and
he was making some cash withdrawals. NewDay did not think this was sufficient information
to say they should not have increased the credit limit, and they noted he was not charged
overlimit fees or late payment fees at this time, and he had no accounts in arrears and no
financial difficulty markers. They said this is the case for the third and fourth increase too.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr W, NewDay needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
As the initial credit limit and the first credit limit increase were granted more than six years
before Mr W made his complaint, Ive asked NewDay if they consent to us looking into these
events. NewDay said they consent to me considering whether the initial credit limit and the
first credit limit increase were irresponsible for Mr W.
Initial credit limit
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Mr Ws application. They
said at the time of Mr W applying for the credit card, they considered the information that he
had gave them, such as being employed, with income of £30,000 and they looked at the
information they were provided by the credit reference agencies. NewDay said that this
showed Mr W had unsecured borrowings of £1,300.
But thats not all the information from the credit reference agencies showed. It showed that
from his open accounts, there were no arrears. He also had no defaults or CCJs.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mr W was given. Im persuaded that the checks were proportionate as the initial
credit limit approved for Mr W was relatively low, given his external unsecured borrowings of
£1,300 at the time and his salary of £30,000.
February 2015 credit limit increase - £900 to £1,900
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ws credit limit for the first time. I can see that in the months leading up to the credit limit
increase that the external unsecured borrowings data NewDay had was limited, although it
showed Mr W had no payday loans and no accounts in arrears.
Ive considered that NewDay had more than doubled Mr Ws credit limit here, however, asthe initial credit limit was relatively low based on his declared income, the increase was also
relatively low (£1,000). So the £1,900 credit limit would be a small amount of his salary of
£30,000. Mr W was at least maintaining his minimum monthly payment here and
occasionally paying more than the minimum payment.
As the increase was only four months from when the account was opened, Im not
persuaded it would be unreasonable for NewDay to rely on some of the information they
obtained from his account opening in addition to how Mr W managed his NewDay account.
And they saw he had no arrears elsewhere. So, Im satisfied the checks that NewDay
conducted prior to increasing Mr Ws credit limit were proportionate to the increase in the
credit they provided here.
July 2015 credit limit increase - £1,900 to £2,500
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ws credit limit to £2,500. They increased the credit limit by £600, a relatively small amount
compared to Mr Ws declared income. But Im conscious that the new credit limit was nearly
three times the initial credit limit that NewDay approved for Mr W. And it was in a short
period of time (nine months) from when the initial credit was approved, to his second credit
limit increase. So, I would need to see that the data NewDay had available to them would
support the increase. Im not persuaded that it did and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Ws NewDay information in the months leading up to the increase. I can
see in March 2015, Mr W makes a relatively large repayment to his credit card. He always
pays at least the minimum repayment on time and he occasionally paid more than the
minimum payment. Mr W had not exceeded his credit limit either, prior to the increase. And
when the credit was previously increased in February 2015, Mr W did not instantly use the
majority of the increase, which may indicate he was not hungry for credit  but he did utilise
the majority of the credit limit in the last three months before NewDay increased his credit
limit to £2,500.
Mr W incurred cash transaction charges also. Its not clear whether he was withdrawing cash
from a machine or whether he was making transactions which attracted a cash transaction
fee (for example gambling transactions). It appears that he made four transactions in March
2015, which attracted a cash transaction fee and five transactions in April 2015, which
attracted a cash transaction fee (based on a £3 cash transaction fee).
I would expect this information to prompt NewDay to make some additional enquiries before
increasing the limit. While a customer is perfectly entitled to use NewDays card as they see
fit, including withdrawing cash, its possible this could be masking a different issue, such as
why Mr W would rather incur nine cash transaction fees over a short period of time as
opposed to using his own money on a debit card which would be unlikely to incur a cash
transaction fee. This may be because Mr W does not have sufficient disposable income to
do so. It could also be a result of Mr W servicing his debt by using debt.
So, what I would expect NewDay to do here is to conduct further checks to ensure Mr Ws
financial standing was sound before increasing his credit limit again in a short period of time.
One of the ways they could have done this for example, is to look at his bank statements. Im
satisfied that this would be proportionate based on the reasons Ive previously given.
So I asked Mr W if he would be able to provide his bank statements for around the time his
credit limit was increased to £2,500. But despite Mr W being asked for these on several
occasions he could not provide me with his bank statements.
So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve looked more closely into this. My rolerequires me to be impartial. That means I have to be fair to both sides and although Im
satisfied that NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that wouldve
revealed further information which means they shouldnt have lent. As Mr W hasnt provided
me with his bank statements, that means that it wouldnt be fair to me to say that NewDay
shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would have revealed.
January 2017 credit limit increase - £2,500 to £3,600 and June 2017 credit limit increase -
£3,600 to £5,100
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ws credit limit to £3,600. They increased the credit limit by £1,100, which was the biggest
increase so far. Im also conscious that the new credit limit was four times the initial credit
limit that NewDay approved for Mr W and represents a 44% increase on his previous credit
limit. NewDay had gathered a lot of information of how Mr W had used his account since
October 2014, when he opened the account. So, I would need to see that the data NewDay
had available to them would support the increase. Im not persuaded that it did and Ill
explain why.
Ive looked at NewDays information about Mr Ws account in the months leading up to the
increase. In the same month that his previous credit limit was increased, NewDays data
shows Mr W incurred an overlimit charge. The month prior to the credit limit increasing to
£3,600, NewDays data shows his total credit card balances had increased to £5,971 (his
total unsecured debt at the time of the application was documented as £1,300). NewDays
data shows a trend of rising balances.
Another cause for concern is the cash transaction fees that Mr W incurs straight away when
his previous credit limit was increased. It appears he made eight transactions which
attracted a cash transaction fee. Since the last credit increase, it also appears that Mr W is
just able to pay his minimum payment, whereas before, he had occasionally made payments
much higher than his minimum payment.
While I need to ensure that the credit is affordable, and Mr W hasnt been able to provide his
bank statements to prove this one way or another, I also need to ensure that the credit
NewDay made available to Mr W was able to be repaid in a sustainable manner within a
reasonable amount of time. Once Mr Ws credit was increased to £3,600, based on how he
managed his account and external accounts, with the unsecured debt rising mostly month on
month, Im persuaded that NewDay should have taken this into account and not have
increased his credit limit here to £3,600.
I say this as NewDay had another 18 months since his credit limit had increased to look at
the trends of his rising balances and his often minimum (or close to minimum) repayments.
By adding another £1,100 of credit which Mr W had available to him, his overall borrowings
would require a larger amount of his income. His minimum payments would potentially
quadruple from when his credit limit was £900 to £3,600. So Im not persuaded that based
on the information NewDay had available to them, that Mr W would be in a position to pay
the credit back in a sustainable manner in a reasonable timeframe.
Within a short period of time from when his credit limit was increased to £3,600, Mr W made
10 transactions which incurred cash transaction fees in the following months of the limit
being increased. £890 of the increase was used on transactions which incurred a cash
transaction fee.
By the time Mr Ws credit limit was increased to £5,100, NewDays data shows his total
credit card balances were up to £8,309  and this had grown every month from when Mr W
had his NewDay credit limit increased to £3,600. Im satisfied that all of this shows that Mr Wshould not have had his credit limit increased to £3,600 and then subsequently increased by
another 42% (and over 5.5 times the original credit limit) to £5,100, as it does not appear he
would be able to repay this debt in a sustainable manner in a reasonable timeframe. So it
follows I intend to ask NewDay to put things right for Mr W.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NewDay said they accepted the provisional decision. Mr W did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to:
Rework the account for Mr W, refunding all interest, fees and charges that have been
applied to any balances above £2,500;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr W along with
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date
of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after the
January 2017 credit limit increase regarding this account from Mr Ws credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £2,500, NewDay should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the remaining amount. New Day
should also remove all adverse information recorded after the January 2017 credit
limit increase regarding this account from Mr Ws credit file.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should settle the complaint in 
line with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman