DRN-3703404
The complaint
Ms L complains that Peter Best Insurance Services Limited (PBIS) referred her to an
accident management company (AMC) for credit hire and repair when her car was 
damaged, who didnt handle her claim well.
What happened
In 2019 Ms Ls parked car was hit by a third party driver causing damage to the front and 
rear of the vehicle. The third party admitted liability and provided his insurance details. Ms L 
said she had a classic car, which is very important to her, and she had fully comprehensive 
insurance cover at the time of the incident.
Ms L contacted her insurance broker, PBIS, to notify them of the collision. She said PBIS 
arranged for the matter to be raised with a separate claims handling company, who Ill refer 
to as the CHC. Ms L was then passed on to an accident management company, who Ill 
refer to as the AMC. Ms L said she wasnt given a choice and the AMCs role wasnt 
properly explained to her. She said she wasnt told that the AMCs main interest was in car 
hire (also referred to as credit hire), rather than successfully dealing with all aspects of her 
claim.
Ms L explained that all phone conversations were conducted on her behalf by her personal 
representative, Mr L, because she is deaf and cannot use the phone. She said she made 
clear to the CHC at the time that she did not require a replacement car because she had 
another car she could use. She also wanted a specific garage to repair her car, which she 
had used two years earlier for restorations. She said the AMC agreed to this but then went 
back on their agreement, after shed already made arrangements to have the car repaired at 
her chosen garage. She said she ultimately accepted a hire car from the AMC to progress 
her claim.
Ms L said it took two months to repair her car. She said she experienced a number of issues 
while the AMC was handling her claim and things didnt go the way she expected. She also 
said the CHC told her she wouldnt have to pay any charges, which wasnt true.
Ms L raised separate complaints with the CHC and the AMC about the way her claim was 
handled, which were considered separately. Ms L then raised a complaint about PBIS for 
referring her to the AMC in the first place.
In response, PBIS said they appointed a CHC to log customer claims on their behalf and 
assist their customers by providing claims options to them. They said Ms L opted to claim via 
the credit hire route rather than the comprehensive cover she had under her motor insurance 
policy, and the AMC was instructed on that basis. PBIS said they couldnt comment further 
on the handling of the claim by the AMC and the relevant third parties had addressed Ms Ls 
complaint with her directly.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ls complaint. He listened to a recording of the call 
in which the CHC, acting on PBIS behalf, referred Ms L to credit hire and, ultimately, didnt 
uphold the complaint because he felt she was given a choice. But Ms L disagreed with the 
investigators outcome. She asked for a transcript of the call, which the investigator provided.
Ms L made the following comments in response to the call transcript:
PBIS call handler was an experienced salesman and some of his comments were 
designed to recommend going to the AMC. Ms L said she required clear impartial advice 
from PBIS during the call, not a salesman.
Ms L said the call handler didnt explain she would be left to pay for the return of her 
vehicle. She said her and her representative raised numerous concerns during the call, 
including who would pay for the transport of her car, and she felt PBIS call handler lied 
to them on several occasions.
She said she made the call handler aware at the outset that she wished her car to go to 
a specific garage, but the AMC declined to take her car there and then refused to pay for 
its return. She then had to claim these costs back herself from the third-party insurer.
Ms L said the third-party insurer also said they wouldnt have covered the costs of the 
hire car if shed had it for the full amount of time while her car was being repaired. So, 
she said she would have been left with a bill of over £3,000 if she hadnt returned the 
hire car after 10 days.
Ms L feels these are major mistakes by PBIS for not explaining fully, or at all, the 
ramifications of choosing to repair her car via the AMC route, rather than via her own 
insurer. She said she was not given the full picture when asked to choose which route to 
use to pursue her claim and the evidence doesnt show that PBIS explained her options 
clearly to her.
She also questioned the amount of commission PBIS received for referring claims to the 
AMC.
Ms L also said she initially complained about the CHC and the AMC because she felt they
didnt deal with her claim fairly or completely. But she said it subsequently became clear that
her insurance broker, PBIS, did not fully inform her of all the risks when asking her to choose
between dealing with her claim through her own insurer, or letting the AMC pursue it for her
 which is why she then complained about PBIS.
Because Ms L disagreed, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about Ms Ls complaint explaining that I intended to uphold 
the complaint. In summary, I said the following in my provisional findings:
PBIS was responsible for the CHCs actions or omissions when discussing Ms Ls claims 
options with her on PBIS behalf. PBIS is not responsible for the actions of the AMC.
The call transcript was an accurate reflection of the call recording. 
During the call, Ms L made the CHC aware that she had no need for a hire car, so I 
didnt think the referral to credit hire was appropriate in the circumstances.
I wasnt persuaded the CHC (acting on PBIS behalf) treated Ms L fairly or acted in her 
best interests by recommending credit hire as her best option in the circumstances. 
I also didnt think the CHC provided Ms L with enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information about her claim options for her to make an informed choice, especially given 
the foreseeable risks in this case. 
I didnt think Ms L would have proceeded down the credit hire route if the CHC (acting on 
PBIS behalf) had given her better information. And I thought PBIS should pay Ms L £600 
for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused her. I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider before I reached a final decision. 
Ms L responded to say she and her representative were happy with my provisional decision. 
PBIS didnt respond by the deadline given. So, the complaint was referred back to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that and given there are no new comments or evidence for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I am upholding Ms Ls complaint. I 
have set out my final findings in full below, which are in line with my provisional decision. 
The responsibilities of PBIS
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different 
parties involved and PBIS responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in 
this decision.
PBIS explained that they appointed the CHC to log customer claims and explain customers 
claim options. So, when Ms L called PBIS to report the damage to her car, she was 
automatically transferred to the CHC to handle the call on PBIS behalf. This means the CHC 
was acting as PBIS agent and PBIS are responsible for the CHCs actions or omissions 
during this call when they discussed Ms Ls claim options and referred her to the AMC for 
credit hire and repair.
However, PBIS responsibility for the CHC is limited to when they were acting on PBIS 
behalf - and PBIS are not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of the AMC. In 
other words, the AMC was acting in its own capacity when handling Ms Ls claim  not on 
behalf of PBIS. And I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the actions of the AMC.
So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the call between Ms L and the 
CHC (acting on PBIS behalf) when she was referred to the AMC for credit hire and repair, 
and whether the CHC, as PBIS agent, met the required standards.
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Ms Ls insurance broker, PBIS were obliged to provide Ms L with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with their obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Ms L contacted PBIS via her representative to tell them about her non-fault claim for
damage to her car, PBIS ought to have provided her with clear information about her
options, so she could decide how best to proceed with getting her car repaired.
I appreciate PBIS appointed the CHC to fulfil this task on their behalf, and I dont think 
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a 
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it 
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means PBIS are 
ultimately still responsible for making sure their regulatory obligations are met by any third 
parties acting on their behalf.Under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) PBIS were also required to pay due regard to the interests of 
Ms L as their customer and treat her fairly. And in line with the Customers best interests rule 
under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, PBIS were required to act honestly, fairly, and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customer. And, if any recommendations were 
made, PBIS were required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of their advice, in 
line with Principle 9 (PRIN2.1R) 
If I find the CHC didnt meet these regulatory requirements during the call when they referred 
Ms L to the AMC (the referral call), then PBIS would be held responsible.
The referral call
Ive reviewed the contents of the referral call and considered whether the CHC met the 
relevant regulatory requirements when acting on PBIS behalf. 
For context, its important to note that all the call handlers messages were relayed via 
Ms Ls representative (Mr L). Ms L then responded, but couldnt hear the call handlers reply, 
which again had to be relayed via her representative. In these circumstances, it was 
important for the CHC, acting on PBIS behalf, to ensure everything was explained clearly, 
taking into account Ms Ls communication needs.
During the call (at 00:12:00), the CHCs call handler explained that Ms L had two options to
progress her claim. He said:
So, Im going to read through the two options that you have available to you to 
progress the claim. Now, obviously, I know which options you are far more likely to 
choose because, obviously, it was not her fault, but just for the purpose of the call I 
will need to tell you both options anyway. The first option would be to claim on her 
own comprehensive cover, now although this is the quickest way to get the vehicle 
fixed, it means the full policy excess would be applicable and it would also affect her 
no claims bonus as well.
The call handler then said (at 00:13:00):
Option two, obviously, is claiming all costs directly from the third party insurer, so all 
from [third partys name]s insurance, and by using this option, it means youll be 
bypassing your own insurance policy, so, effectively leaves you with no money to 
pay, no excess to pay, but the claim may take slightly longer.
Although the call handler told Ms L that she could claim through her own insurance policy,
Im not persuaded he presented her options clearly and fairly  especially as he insinuated
that there was an obvious choice for non-fault claims to save paying the policy excess and
protect her No Claims Bonus (NCB). In fact, Ms L may have been able to claim her excess
back from the third partys insurer as an uninsured loss, even if she chose to claim through
her own insurance policy. And although any unprotected NCB may be affected temporarily
by an open or outstanding claim on a policy, if a claim is closed as non-fault then the NCB
isnt affected in the long run. I note Ms Ls statement of facts for her motor insurance policy
says 0 years for NCB in any event.
The only drawback the call handler highlighted as regards claiming the costs back directly 
from the third partys insurer was that it may take longer. Otherwise he said Ms L would have 
no money to pay. But this isnt always guaranteed if for any reason the costs cant be 
recovered from the third party insurer  and this is a real risk when using credit hire with 
financial consequences that could be much higher than the policy excess Ms L would have 
to pay if claiming under her own insurance. Indeed, Ms Ls policy excess was £100 whereas 
the credit hire charges were £65 a day, and Ms L could become liable for those credit hire 
costs, if they arent recovered from the third party insurer. So, Im not persuaded that the CHC presented Ms Ls options clearly and fairly when acting on PBIS behalf. Given the 
CHC highlighted the main benefits of credit hire, they ought also to have highlighted the key 
risks, in order to present Ms L with a balanced view of her options and allow her to make an 
informed choice about how to proceed.
Ms L didnt engage with these points and instead responded to explain that she only wanted 
her car to be repaired at the specific garage that had carried out restorations on the car 
previously, which the call handler said wouldnt be an issue (at 00:14:30). Ms L made clear 
throughout the call that having the car repaired at the particular garage of her choice was her 
main concern. And I dont think the call handler properly explained Ms Ls choices to meet 
this key priority (which could also be possible if claiming under her own insurance policy). 
Instead, he told her credit hire would be her best option to use the specific garage she 
wanted.
Ms L was clearly upset later in the call and questioned how it would all work because her 
chosen garage was situated far away (at 00:20:30). The call handler confirmed that the AMC 
would collect the vehicle, take it to the garage Ms L wanted, and return it back - and that the 
costs would all be claimed back from the third partys insurance (at 00:22:30 to 00:23:30). In 
reality, there were issues with using her chosen garage because of its location, which was 
reasonably foreseeable by the CHC  especially as Ms L specifically raised it as a concern. 
At the very least, the CHC shouldnt have told Ms L this wouldnt be an issue. So, Im not 
persuaded the CHC provided Ms L with enough clear information for her to make an 
informed choice about how best to proceed. Rather, they recommended credit hire as her 
best option to meet her needs - and I dont think it was. Ive explained why in more detail 
below.
Ms L then told the CHC that she had a second car that she could use instead of getting a 
replacement car through credit hire (at 00:17:00): As you know, Ive got another car. A
Mercedes, which I can use [] I do short journeys in both of them. I alternate them. Ms Ls
representative then confirmed: Yeah, so, I think she can manage with the other car that
shes got for the moment.
By telling the CHC about her other car, Ms L made clear that she had no real need for a
replacement car. And, in my view, this would therefore make any recommendation for credit
hire inappropriate, given this could inflate claim costs unnecessarily, go against the
consumers duty to mitigate their losses, and ultimately could affect whether the hire car 
charges are recoverable from the third party insurer.
Instead of acknowledging this could present issues with the credit hire option, the call
handler responded to say the only other option is to go down the ULR route. Now ULR
route stands for uninsured loss recovery. (at 00:17:14 to 00:17:30). He said this could take
slightly longer and Ms L would have to get two alternative quotes for repairs. However, she
also still had the option of claiming on her own policy. So, ULR wasnt her only other option.
Ms Ls representative later said (at 00:18:46):
Ultimately her main concern is that she can use her garage [] So, what she 
wouldnt want to do is to select an option that would prevent that from being the 
case.
And the call handler confirmed (at 00:19:30):
Yeah. I would say the best option to go for in that case would be the first one [credit 
hire and repair]. I mean, she can still use the Mercedes if she wants to, she doesnt 
have to use the replacement vehicle if she doesnt want to. Its just going to be there 
if she needs it for an emergency or something like that. But I have to say the main 
benefit of going down that route is it would be quicker. They would give you a call today to make the arrangements, obviously, as opposed to you going to two different 
garages to get the quotes in the first place.
And later (at 00:21:30), the CHCs call handler said:
So, by accepting this option where you get a courtesy car, whether you want to use 
it or not when you get it is up to you. You can just leave it on the driveway if you 
want, but the point is that that will enable you to still use [Ms Ls chosen garage] and 
then get it done without going through the hassle of having to go to other people for 
quotations and so on.
In effect, the CHCs call handler, while acting on behalf of PBIS, made Ms L believe that if 
she took a hire car  which she didnt need  her car would be repaired quicker, at her 
chosen garage. He didnt tell her that the hire car comes with a cost which the AMC then 
tries to claim back from the third party insurer  and, if for any reason the third party insurer 
refuses to pay, there is a risk that the AMC could then pursue Ms L for those costs under the 
terms of the credit hire agreement. And, ultimately, because she had no need for a hire car, 
this was a foreseeable tangible risk and credit hire wasnt a suitable option for her.
Indeed, the third party insurer confirmed it would not have paid the costs for a hire car she 
did not need. They said:
We appreciate you have mitigated your losses as stated but would advise that as a 
claimant you have a duty to do so, and we would not have settled any hire bill from 
[the AMC] presented for a vehicle that would have sat on your drive for an extra 5 
weeks, as stated in your correspondence to [the AMC].
I accept the AMC was expected to go into more detail with Ms L to determine whether she
was eligible for credit hire as the next stage in the credit hire process. But, in circumstances
such as these, when it is clear from the outset that credit hire isnt suitable because Ms L
had another car she could use and no need for a replacement car, I am not persuaded the
CHC treated Ms L fairly or acted in her best interests by proceeding to tell Ms L that credit
hire was her best option.
 
It is Ms Ls duty to mitigate her losses (as she tried to do in this case by handing the hire car
back early). However, the CHC, as PBIS agent, is the party in the position of knowledge in
this situation  that is, they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, about the real, 
tangible risks of the third party insurer refusing to pay credit hire charges in these 
circumstances. Or, at the very least, Im persuaded the CHC knew that there wasnt a
genuine need for a hire car. And I find the credit hire referral inappropriate on this basis.
Overall, I am not persuaded the CHC treated Ms L fairly or acted in her best interests by
recommending credit hire as the best option in these circumstances when acting on PBIS
behalf for the reasons Ive explained. I also dont think the CHC provided Ms L with enough
clear, fair, and not misleading information about her options, especially given the
foreseeable risks in this case.
I am persuaded that if the CHC had given Ms L better information she would not have
proceeded down the credit hire route in these circumstances because it wasnt suitable for
her needs. I also find it unlikely having to pay the £100 excess to claim via her own 
comprehensive policy would have outweighed the risk of having to pay credit hire charges at 
£65 per day.
For these reasons, I uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ive set out the level of compensation I 
consider appropriate below.
I understand Ms L also questioned the impartiality of the advice she was provided by theCHC when acting on PBIS behalf, and the amount of commission that was paid for the
referral to the AMC. However, Ive already explained why I dont think the CHC treated Ms L
fairly or acted in her best interests by referring her to credit hire in these circumstances. So, I 
still dont need to reach a firm finding on this point as it wouldnt change my overall 
conclusion.
Putting things right
As Ive already explained, I dont think Ms L would have chosen the credit hire route if shed 
been given better and clearer information about it. So, in circumstances like these, I would 
aim to put Ms L back in the position she would have been in, but for the referral to credit hire 
 as I explained in my provisional decision.
Looking at Ms Ls financial losses, she said she incurred costs of £150 and around £268 for 
her car to be transported to and from her chosen garage. I understand the third partys 
insurer has since settled these costs  although Ms L had to claim these back herself 
because the AMC didnt do this for her (which I have considered further below). Ms L hasnt 
provided any supporting evidence for any other losses she may have incurred. So, I am not 
awarding anything further for consequential financial loss in the circumstances.
The third partys insurer also paid Ms L £100 to compensate her for the loss of use of her car 
for 10 days, which is the time it says the repairs should have taken. Given Ms L had an 
alternative car available to her while the repairs were being carried out, I wouldnt award any 
more than this. In any event, the length of time the repairs took is not something that PBIS 
had any control or influence over and I cant consider the actions or omissions of the AMC in 
this decision. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask PBIS to pay Ms L any 
compensation for the loss of use of her car in these circumstances.
However, I think this whole matter has caused Ms L a considerable amount of distress and 
inconvenience, which could have been avoided if she hadnt been referred to credit hire 
inappropriately, or if she had been given better information about it to enable her to make an 
informed choice. So, I think PBIS should pay her compensation to reflect this. Ive set out the 
main points Ive considered below when thinking about the level of compensation to award.
Firstly, Ms L has explained how upset she was that someone had damaged her car, which 
she is very attached to. The driver responsible for hitting her car then left her a note with a 
phone number to call, which she couldnt use without assistance. While PBIS isnt 
responsible for the distress caused to Ms L by this incident, when she called PBIS for help 
via her representative she was already upset by what had happened. And I think some of the 
events that followed exacerbated the situation and could have been avoided, but for the 
inappropriate and unclear referral to credit hire by PBIS agent.
Secondly, Ms L said she is profoundly deaf and registered disabled, so communicating via 
the phone is impossible for her to do directly. She has to use a representative and lives on 
her own, with no immediate family to support her. Im satisfied PBIS agent was aware of her 
communication needs from the referral call and, while they communicated via her 
representative, I cant see they did anything else to assist Ms L. Instead, the CHC (acting on 
PBIS behalf) arranged for the AMC to call her to progress her claim. Ms L said the majority 
of contact was by phone and she had to rely on her ex-husband, Mr L, to make himself 
available to support her. She said this was stressful and Mr L had to spend many hours on 
the phone and experienced great inconvenience through the many interruptions, including 
having to return early or otherwise delay trips to help her.
Thirdly, I acknowledge Ms L and her representative would have experienced some 
inconvenience when dealing with her claim, even if she hadnt used credit hire. However, I think the fact Ms L didnt have a real need for the replacement car undoubtedly worsened 
the situation and made the communication unnecessarily protracted for the following 
reasons:
Ms L was passed back and forth between the CHC and the AMC at the outset due to 
having no real need for a replacement car.
She had issues with the hire car, as it didnt have a manual and she couldnt watch the 
demonstration at the same time as lip reading, which would have been stressful for her. 
This situation could have been avoided given she didnt need the replacement car.
Ms L was asked to sign a blank screen on a device by the AMC without seeing the 
documents she was agreeing to. When they were sent to her later, they included a 
statement of truth about her need for a hire car and she said the reasons listed were 
wrong. Ms L then had to contact the AMC to resolve this. This could have been avoided 
if the CHC had acknowledged she had no real need for a hire car from the outset.
Ms L had the inconvenience of arranging the early return of the hire car she didnt need.
All these issues had a greater impact on Ms L because she needed her representative to 
communicate with the parties for her. And although I cant award compensation directly to 
Mr L as a third party because he isnt the eligible complainant here (Ms L is), Im persuaded 
the knock on effect of the inconvenience he experienced would have been stressful and 
upsetting for Ms L, having to rely on him as her representative to resolve these issues  
which I think were foreseeable issues on the part of the CHC.
Finally, I consider PBIS agent to have caused Ms L further distress and inconvenience by 
failing to explain the situation clearly to her, including the clear risks of using credit hire in 
this particular situation (without a real need for a hire car). The CHC raised her expectations 
that she could use her chosen garage without issues, despite it being far away, and that she 
wouldnt have to pay any money at all as it would all be recovered from the third partys 
insurer. In reality, there were issues with using her chosen garage, she had to pay to 
transport her car, and the AMC didnt claim this back for her, so she had to do it herself. 
Ms L said this all caused her a great deal of anxiety. In my view, Ms L didnt get the least 
hassle option she was led to expect. And, again, Im persuaded that all of the issues she 
experienced were reasonably foreseeable on the part of the CHC when acting on PBIS 
behalf in these circumstances.
Having considered all of the above, and in line with my provisional findings, I think PBIS 
should pay Ms L £600 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
inappropriate and unclear credit hire referral and the reasonably foreseeable issues that 
followed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Ms Ls complaint and direct Peter Best
Insurance Services Limited to pay Ms L £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman