DRN-2500464
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that information provided to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC led to a delay in 
him being able to transfer money internationally which in turn caused a less favourable 
exchange rate to be applied to the transfer. 
What happened
Mr H wanted to transfer funds from a US bank account to an account with Barclays held in 
the UK. Mr H researched Barclays website before making the transfer, and noticed the 
following paragraph:
If the payment is being made in US dollars, you might be asked to supply the details 
of who Barclays UK banks with in the USA, including the ABA code 026002574. This 
is equivalent to a UK sort code and is also known as the Fed Wire number. Barclays 
Bank UKs PLC USD account is held with Barclays Bank PLC, New York.
Mr H wanted clarification from Barclays on whether the information referred to on their 
website would be needed for his transfer. So, he took the transfer form from his US bank into 
his local Barclays branch and asked the staff there to help him complete the form. 
Unfortunately, when Mr H submitted the transfer form which Barclays staff had helped him 
with to his US bank, the transfer was rejected. Mr H contacted his US bank and completed a 
replacement transfer form, and the transfer was successful with this second attempt.
However, because of the delay made necessary Mr H having to submit a replacement form, 
the currency exchange rate which was applied to the transfer was less favourable, and 
because of this Mr H received approximately £2,500 less than he would have done, had the 
first transfer attempt been successful.
Mr H wasnt happy about this and made a complaint to Barclays - because he believed the 
first transfer had failed because of inaccurate advice he had received from Barclays about 
the transfer form when he went into branch. Mr H wanted Barclays to reimburse him the 
£2,500 so that he wasnt losing out financially because of Barclays mistake.
Barclays looked at Mr Hs complaint, but they said that while Barclays staff had assisted Mr 
H by providing the information Mr H asked for to complete the transfer form, this was done 
as a courtesy and that ultimately Mr H should have confirmed the information needed with 
the US bank themselves. Barclays also noted that there were clerical errors on the transfer 
form, including incorrectly formatted information inputted by Mr H, which may also have 
caused the transfer to be rejected. Because of this, Barclays didnt feel that they should be 
held responsible for the transfer failing, and so they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and so he referred his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at this case. After a detailed review, they thought 
that Mr H should have asked his US bank for help in filling out the form, given that it was his 
US banks form. They also felt that Barclays staff had tried to help Mr H, but that this was on 
a best endeavours basis and that it wasnt fair to hold Barclays staff responsible for the 
transfer failing - because Barclays werent the bank making the transfer. So, our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, and so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy for Mr H here. He was only trying to make sure he was making his 
payment in the right way. So, when he saw the paragraph mentioned in the preceding 
section here  saying If the payment is being made in US dollars, you might be asked to 
supply the details of who Barclays UK banks with in the USA  this was read by Mr H as 
meaning that this information may be required by Barclays. So, he visited a Barclays branch 
for clarification.
But in reading this, Barclays website advises that this information may be required by the 
bank from where the transfer is originating (the sending bank)  in this case, Mr Hs US 
bank. 
The paragraph then continues by providing the information that may be required by the 
sending bank, including the ABA code, an explanation of what the ABA code is, and the 
name of Barclays US counterpart. This is provided by Barclays so that their customers have 
the information to hand that the sending bank may potentially require, so that delays are not 
incurred if the sending bank asks for this information from the person making the transfer.
Here, the sending bank wasnt Barclays. Instead, the branch was only trying to help Mr H as 
best it could  where ultimately, the instruction Mr H wanted to make was always going to be 
from a different business. It would really have been more appropriate for Mr H to approach 
his US bank for help in completing that banks transfer form. 
I can understand how Mr H may have interpreted the statement on Barclays website, but Mr 
H is ultimately responsible for completing the transfer form. And that transfer form was 
instructed by another business  not Barclays. It doesnt follow that I can hold Barclays 
responsible for what Mr H took the relevant information to mean, or that I believe that it 
would be fair to ask Barclays to reimburse Mr H in the manner that he would like them to.
While I dont feel that Barclays should be held responsible for the transfer failing in and of 
itself, it was the case that Barclays provided help to Mr H when he asked for it in branch. 
Indeed, had Barclays declined to assist Mr H in this instance and referred him to his US 
bank, it may well have been the case that this issue could have been avoided.
However, Mr H has confirmed in his testimony to this service that the agent he spoke to at 
Barclays was helpful and polite, and that they provided Mr H with the information that he 
asked for - which Mr H then took home and inputted onto the form himself before submitting 
it to his US bank. So, given that Barclays didnt fill out the form directly for Mr H, but rather 
supplied specific information that Mr H asked for, it doesnt seem fair to me to hold Barclays 
responsible for how the form was completed. Indeed, as the sending bank, any 
inconsistencies on the form could be recognised and addressed by Mr Hs US bank.
I have reviewed all the correspondence between Mr H and this service, and while it isnt 
necessary here for me to comment on every point, I will draw particular attention to the following statement made by Mr H: It was not up to [my US bank] to challenge the inclusion 
of a routing bank or tell me to remove it, that is entirely down to Barclays. 
This demonstrates that Mr H was of the understanding that the routing information was a 
requirement of Barclays. But this isnt the case. For international monetary transfers, its the 
bank initiating the transfer, in this case Mr Hs US bank, who decide the routing of any 
transfer that they make. As the bank receiving the transfer, Barclays have no say in how the 
sending bank choose to make the transfer.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward 
Mr H here. I understand that this might not be the outcome that Mr H was hoping for, but I 
hope he can understand, based on the above, why I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking Barclays to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman