DRN-3505581
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how TransUnion International UK Limited is reporting information 
about him on his credit file.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 27 May 2022 explaining why I didnt think 
Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. My provisional findings and the background to this 
complaint are copied below - taken from my provisional decision. These form part of this final 
decision. 
What happened 
It should be noted that some of Mr Ws concerns relate to information showing on a report
held by a company called CK. CK is not a credit reference agency, but an entity providing a
free service for customers to access information held by TransUnion.
Mr W raised concerns with TransUnion that a financial connection on his credit file was not
being correctly reported in terms of the dates being quoted; that searches were wrongly
showing on his credit file and TransUnion had not properly demonstrated to him that theyd
queried various searches made on his credit file. Mr W also said an address was wrongly
being reported twice on his credit file.
TransUnion explained to Mr W that they didnt think they had done anything wrong. In
relation to the financial connection TransUnion explained what the dates being reported
meant and confirmed they were correct. TransUnion let Mr W know if he wanted to
disassociate himself from the financial connection he would need to take steps to request he
be removed from the relevant accounts and evidence that he was no longer linked to the
other person. In relation to the searches, TransUnion explained they had contacted the data
providers reporting the information to them, but had received confirmation that the
information being reported was correct, so the searches were not removed. During the
course of this complaint TransUnion also let Mr W know that the address in question was not
being reported twice  and that this may be something to raise with CK.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. To summarise, the
investigator noted some of the searches Mr W had been challenging were no longer being
reported, so Mr W was no longer concerned with those. The investigator saw that
TransUnion may not have updated one particular search even though the data provider had
agreed it could be removed. But as these were primarily soft searches it meant these would
not be seen by parties accessing Mr Ws credit file. And while the investigator acknowledged
the inconvenience to Mr W having to engage with TransUnion, there was no financial loss
caused to Mr W by these searches appearing on his credit file.
Our investigator also noted there was no issue with TransUnions reporting of the address
and confirmed that it wouldnt be possible for TransUnion to remove the financial connection
unless there was confirmation from the data provider that it was appropriate to do so. The
investigator also let Mr W know that he could refer his concerns about the accuracy of data
being reported to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr W strongly disagreed with the investigator. Mr W said the issue with the financial
connection was that the dates are wrong, not that the financial connection shouldnt exist.
Given TransUnion only sent evidence of contacting two companies, he said TransUnion
were therefore lying about having contacted everyone. Mr W queried the point of soft
searches if they have no impact and said TransUnion had ignored a letter from his broker
that said the searches shouldnt be showing.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They further explained it wasnt
for this service to fine or punish a business and because an agreement couldnt be reached
between Mr W and TransUnion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed everything I dont
currently think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
TransUnion is a credit reference agency meaning they hold data about individuals (and
businesses) which is stored as a credit file. The information held is gathered from public and
private sources (data providers) and is accessed by businesses and organisations for
example, to assist in making decisions as to whether they may enter into an agreement with
an individual or business.
A business or organisation accessing a credit file would do so through either a hard or soft
search. In Mr Ws case, part of his complaint is with the numerous soft searches appearing
on his credit file  he doesnt agree many of these should be there, and therefore the report
is not an accurate reflection of his financial standing.
A soft search does not impact an individuals credit score and it cannot be seen by parties
accessing the credit file. Mr W has therefore queried the relevance of such soft searches.
While a soft search doesnt leave the same imprint on a credit file as a hard search, it still
allows the individual whose file it is to see these types of searches being carried out on their
credit file for their own information. And it is not wrong for these types of searches to appear
on a credit file as an accurate reflection of how the credit file is being accessed. Examples of
soft searches may be checking eligibility for a product, the individual searching their own
credit report or where a company may be using the credit file as part of an identity check.
From the available submissions it appears some of Mr Ws concerns relate to CKs report
rather than information TransUnion is reporting. While CK draws information from
TransUnion, the report it produces is separate to TransUnions credit file. It appears Mr Ws
concern over how an address is being reported, based on the screenshot he has provided,
relates to CKs report  so that concern would need to be directed to CK alongside Mr Ws
concerns about CKs numerous soft searches. So I make no findings in this decision in
relation to CKs actions.
It seems to me Mr Ws complaint is primarily driven by his concerns about the accuracy of
information being recorded about him. Mr W is right in that information held about him should
be accurate, so Ive looked at his concerns in relation to TransUnions actions alone to see if
theyve done anything wrong here.
As a credit reference agency TransUnion reports the information they are given by data
providers, and errors can stem either from TransUnion incorrectly reporting what theyve
been told, or the source of that information not providing the correct details to TransUnion inthe first place.
Mr W provided us with a copy of his credit file from TransUnion which includes details of the
searches carried out  however, given the time thats passed I understand that many of the
searches Mr W was initially disputing have since dropped off his credit file. The soft
searches carried out by TransUnion have been explained as searches that Mr W wouldve
made to access his own credit file. And given what Ive said above, I dont think TransUnion
have done anything wrong in showing these on Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W is upset that TransUnion have not evidenced that they contacted the other data
providers which had previously been reporting soft searches on his account. Mr W says
TransUnion is therefore lying, and theyve also ignored his brokers letter that there were
searches which should not have been reported.
I realise Mr Ws strength of feeling on these points but firstly I think its fair to note that
Mr Ws broker is not the expert here for what should be reported on Mr Ws credit file  that
is, its for TransUnion to determine in accordance with their regulatory and statutory
obligations what should be reported. But it would be reasonable for TransUnion to query any
information Mr W thought was being incorrectly reported about him. And TransUnion would
be expected to amend information being reported if the data provider has agreed for it to be
amended.
Secondly, TransUnion have evidenced approaching two of the data providers whose
searches Mr W was disputing. I agree with our investigator that one of them did agree to
removing their search from Mr Ws credit file  although its less clear to me if TransUnion
actioned this or if again, the search simply dropped off. Its disappointing that TransUnion
have not provided more detail around what happened here, but that said this (and any other
soft searches) havent impacted Mr Ws creditworthiness.
Ive also considered Mr Ws concerns about the information reported relating to his financial
connection. Mr W says the associated dates for this information do not make sense. He
provided us with a screenshot of CKs report which notes the connection originating on May
2014 and being confirmed on July 2002. As this is showing on CKs report, I cant comment
on this here as this decision relates to TransUnions actions alone and their credit file for
Mr W.
The financial connection information on TransUnions credit file says confirmed May 2014
and date confirmed July 2002. I appreciate this doesnt provide Mr W with a lot of detail as
to what is being confirmed, but TransUnion have explained July 2002 is the earliest
confirmation they were provided of this financial connection, and May 2014 is the last time
this information was confirmed to them.
Mr W doesnt dispute the financial connection. And I cant see that he has disputed the
connection was in existence between 2002 and 2014, or that it should no longer exist  so I
dont see that TransUnion is reporting anything incorrectly here. However, in case Mr W
believes at any point the dates of the financial connection are wrong, he will first need to
approach the data provider that was reporting the financial connection if he wants to dispute
it. But he should note what TransUnion has said about May 2014 being the last time this
information was confirmed to them and, eight years on, that data provider may no longer be
able to access it.
Taking everything into account, while it couldve been clearer what happened after
TransUnion learned the data provider of one of the soft searches was happy for that
particular search to be removed, based on what Ive seen I dont think TransUnion have
wrongly reported any information about Mr W and have reported the information provided tothem by the respective data providers. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Ws
creditworthiness has been affected by TransUnions actions.
Mr W also expressed concern about how customers are required to interact with TransUnion
and in particular how difficult it is communicating with them as he says several TransUnion
staff will be involved in one query. I realise TransUnions process is particularly frustrating for
Mr W. And while I sympathise with having to repeat whats happened several times to
different individuals, Im afraid it is not within my power to investigate an organisations
systems and processes  our service is not the regulator. And for that reason we do not fine
or punish businesses. Our role is to look at whether something has gone wrong in the
individual circumstances of a complaint and if it has, to see how we might - as far as is
reasonably possible - look to put things right.
So while I recognise Mr W is particularly unhappy with the amount of time and effort he has
invested in this matter, on review of what I am able to look at and whats happened, Ive not
found enough to say that TransUnion have done anything wrong, so I see nothing for me to
put right here. And I would add that the action of bringing a complaint is not in itself enough
to say that something has gone wrong or that a business should therefore be required to pay
compensation.
If Mr W believes that any organisations are holding incorrect information about him then he
can approach the ICO about them separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions or evidence in reply to my 
provisional decision by 24 June 2022. And it was explained to both parties if they replied 
earlier, I may be able to issue my final decision sooner. 
Mr W acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but did not offer any further evidence 
or submissions for me to consider. TransUnion also confirmed receipt of my provisional 
decision and also did not provide me with anything further to review.
In view of this, as there is no new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings above. That is, there is not enough for me to say that TransUnion has 
done something wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman