The complaint
Ms G complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited ('FICL') mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance ('PPI') policy in 2003 in connection with a 
B&Q store card. 
What happened
Ms G complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2003. It was added to her store 
card account which she says she got after she was given a leaflet to complete. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because he thought FICL hadn't 
given Ms G enough information about the cost and benefits of the policy which was clear, 
fair and not misleading. FICL disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter 
to be looked at again.
FICL added the government guidelines said Ms G would only have received limited sick pay 
(i.e. less than 6 months) from her employer at the time of the sale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms G's case. 
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Ms G's complaint and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Ms G was eligible for the PPI policy which she bought. 
FICL said it was a non-advised sale. So FICL needed to make sure it gave Ms G enough 
information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she wanted to buy it. But I 
dont think FICL gave Ms G clear enough information about the policy.
I have seen a copy of Ms G's store card application form which also covers her application 
for PPI. I can see that the form says: "The cost of Payment Protection Insurance is a % of 
your outstanding balance based on 89p per £100 each month". But I cant see where it was 
explained what percentage of her outstanding balance would be covered, that the PPI 
premium would be added to the store card balance and could attract interest or that Ms G 
would need to keep paying the PPI if she made a successful claim - which in real terms 
would reduce the level of benefit to less than 10% of the outstanding statement balance.
I think this would have mattered to Ms G because she said she would have got sick pay from 
her employer if she couldnt work. I think she could have met her store card repayments for a 
DRN-1138045while without the policy. Ive taken into account FICL's comments including what its said 
about the guidelines about Ms G's sick pay. But I still think I should uphold this complaint. 
Ms G has been consistent in telling us about her sick pay benefits from her employer when 
this policy was sold and the evidence which FICL produced only refers to potential 
guidelines about pay. So I think Ms G could have managed without the PPI for long enough 
not to need it. I dont think Ms G would have bought the policy if FICL had given her enough 
information about it. So I think Ms G has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Ms 
G has said. I think Ms G would have had enough sick pay to mean she didnt really need the 
policy. So I dont think Ms G would have bought it if shed had better information about it.
Putting things right
I think Financial Insurance Company Limited - which has taken responsibility for this PPI 
sale - did something wrong so it needs to do something to put things right for Ms G.
My final decision
Financial Insurance Company Limited should put Ms G in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Financial Insurance Company Limited should find out how much Ms G would have 
owed when she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Financial Insurance Company Limited should then refund the difference between what Ms G 
owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Financial Insurance Company 
Limited can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. Financial Insurance Company Limited should add simple interest on the difference 
between what Ms G would have owed when she closed her account from when she 
closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when the Financial Insurance Company Limited works out what Ms G would have 
owed each month without PPI  Ms G paid more than enough to clear her balance, 
Financial Insurance Company Limited should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Ms G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms G wouldve 
owed Financial Insurance Company Limited something on her store card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.    
    D. Financial Insurance Company Limited should tell Ms G what its done to work out A, B  
         and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Financial Insurance Company Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Financial Insurance Company Limited must give Ms G a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman