DRN-4236413
The complaint
Ms M complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds settlement of her medical insurance 
claim and that it added an exclusion to her policy.
My references to AXA PPP include its agents. Ms M is represented in her complaint by her 
partner but for simplicity Ill just refer to Ms M.
What happened
Ms M has a Global Health Plan private medical insurance policy, AXA PPP is the insurer. 
She contacted AXA PPP to pre-authorise her ventral rectopexy with mesh and colpopexy 
surgery.
AXA PPP wouldnt authorise cover for the mesh element of the procedure and said it 
wouldnt cover any complications relating to the mesh. In summary it said:
The use of mesh in the procedure wasnt established as effective so that part of the 
procedure wasnt covered by the policy terms.
The most recent National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines 
supported its decision.
The medical evidence Ms M had sent it didnt show the mesh element of the 
procedure was established as effective.
Its Schedule of Procedures list, which showed the procedures it covered, said only 
laparoscopic rectopexy without mesh would be covered, so Ms M would need to pay 
for the cost of the mesh fitting.
Ms M had the surgery including the mesh element in a European country, knowing 
AXA PPPs decision. She complained to us that AXA PPP hadnt fully taken into account the 
evidence shed provided that the mesh element was effective and not experimental. She 
wants AXA PPP to pay her claim in full and cover any complications with the mesh.
Our investigator said AXA PPP had acted fairly in its settlement of the claim and in saying it 
wouldnt cover any complications with the mesh.
Ms M disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. She provided a letter from her 
consultant who performed the surgery which she said supported her claim.
Before I made my decision we sent the consultants letter to AXA PPP and asked if it had 
any comments. AXA PPP didnt give any comments on the letter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision as since our investigators view Ms M had provided additional 
evidence. I explained why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
On the evidence I have Im intending to not uphold the complaint as I think AXA PPP 
reasonably declined to cover the mesh element of Ms Ms procedure. Ill explain why.
Under the heading The types of drugs, treatments and surgery that are covered the policy 
says:
Your policy covers you for established medical treatments.
There is no cover for any treatment or procedure that is experimental or that has not 
been established as being effective

For a surgical procedure to be covered it must be listed in our Schedule of 
Procedures and Fees.
We will also pay for treatment not listed in our Schedule of Procedures and Fees if, 
before the treatment begins, it is established that the treatment is recognised as 
appropriate by an authoritative medical body. This means procedures and practices 
must have undergone appropriate clinical trial and assessment, and be sufficiently 
evidenced in published medical journals.
The policy also says whats excluded from cover:
What is not covered?
We will not pay for treatment that has not been established as being effective or 
which is experimental.
You are not covered for complications that arise as a result of authorised or 
unauthorised unproven or experimental treatment.
The policy gives details for how to find the Schedule of Procedures and Fees.
I think AXA PPP correctly said the mesh element of Ms Ms surgery wasnt covered under 
the policy terms. Its Schedule, which lists the procedures covered by the policy, says theres 
cover for laparoscopic rectopexy surgery but specifically says without mesh.
I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I note that 
the policy says AXA PPP will pay for treatment not listed in the Schedule of Procedures if 
before the treatment begins, it is established that the treatment is recognised as appropriate 
by an authoritative medical body
Ive considered the information in the links to the medical papers which Ms M provided. AXA 
PPPs letter to her of 26 August 2022 details why it wasnt persuaded by that evidence that 
the laparoscopic rectopexy with mesh surgery had been established to be effective. I think 
AXA PPP made a reasonable decision for the reasons it gave in the letter  in summary 
there was no high quality evidence that the procedure was effective.
AXA PPP also referred to the most recent NICE guidelines, from 20 June 2018, on 
Laparoscopic ventral mesh rectopexy for internal rectal prolapse. I think its reasonable for 
AXA PPP to use NICE guidelines as part of deciding whether the procedure is established to be effective.
The most recent NICE recommendations on the procedure say:
1.1 Current evidence on the safety of laparoscopic ventral mesh rectopexy for 
internal rectal prolapse shows there are well recognised, serious but infrequent 
complications. The evidence on efficacy and safety is limited in quality. Therefore, 
this procedure should only be used with special arrangements for clinical 
governance, consent and audit or research...
NICE Special arrangements say:
This means that there are uncertainties about whether a procedure is safe and 
effective. We also recommend special arrangements if risks of serious harm are 
known. These will need to be carefully explained to a patient before they make a 
decision.
A special arrangements recommendation places emphasis on the need for informed 
consent. This includes both the patient (or carer) and senior medical staff, such as 
the clinical governance lead in their trust.
Clinicians using these procedures should collect data, either by audit or research
In summary the most recent NICE guidelines say that evidence on efficacy and safety on the 
procedure is limited in quality and there are uncertainties about whether the procedure is 
safe and effective. I think AXA PPP reasonably understood from those NICE guidelines that 
the procedure hadnt been established as being effective.
Ms M has now sent new evidence - a letter dated 10 January 2023 from her consultant who 
performed the surgery. The consultant says:
I performed a Ventral Mesh (organic) Rectopexy as welI as a Sacrocolpopexy with 
Da Vinci Robot System (date in February 2022).
The organic mesh is not only used by myself but by most of my surgeon colleagues 
in (the European country) and the UK. It is a highly recommended procedure 
(standard of care) and not experimental.
Ive carefully considered what the consultants letter says but Im not persuaded that Ms M 
has provided sufficient evidence that the treatment is recognised, as defined by the policy 
terms, and has been established as effective.
The policy says AXA PPP will pay for treatment thats not in its Schedule of Procedures if 
before the treatment begins, it is established that the treatment is recognised as appropriate 
by an authoritative medical body. This means procedures and practices must have 
undergone appropriate clinical trial and assessment, and be sufficiently evidenced in 
published medical journals.
As the consultants letter doesnt refer to clinical trials, assessments and medical journals 
which show the procedure with mesh is recognised, and since the NICE guidelines now 
established as effective, Im not persuaded that Ms M has evidenced that AXA PPP should 
fairly and reasonably cover the treatment.
It may be that Ms Ms consultant can provide specific information to show the procedure with 
mesh is now recognised and established as effective. Ms M may want to contact her consultant to see if he can provide further evidence.
On the current evidence Ive seen I think the procedure with mesh isnt covered by the policy 
terms and its fair and reasonable for AXA PPP to rely on the NICE guidelines to say it 
shouldnt reasonably cover that treatment.
As the policy says Ms Ms not covered for complications that arise as a result of authorised 
or unauthorised unproven or experimental treatment I think AXA PPP acted within the policy 
terms and fairly and reasonably in telling Ms M it wont cover complications relating to the 
mesh. Its not clear if AXA PPP has added such an exclusion to Ms Ms policy but even if not 
it can decline cover for those complications under the policy wording.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA PPP didnt respond. Ms M disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary she 
said:
I hadnt taken into account all the evidence shed submitted especially her 
consultants letter saying organic mesh was being used by surgeons in the UK.
The medical articles shed provided gave enough information to show the procedure 
is used in the UK. Id given no reason about why I disagreed with that information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered and reconsidered all the evidence Ms M and AXA PPP have 
provided. Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but I still think AXA PPP reasonably declined to cover 
the mesh element of her procedure so I dont uphold her complaint.
Ive explained in my provisional findings why I think AXA PPP reasonably understood from 
the most recent NICE guidelines for Laparoscopic ventral mesh rectopexy for internal rectal 
prolapse that the procedure hadnt been established as being effective. The most recent 
NICE guidelines about the procedure say The evidence on efficacy and safety is limited in 
quality. Therefore, this procedure should only be used with special arrangements (which 
NICE defines) for clinical governance, consent and audit or research.
I still dont think Ms Ms consultants letter, set out above, is sufficient evidence that the 
treatment is recognised, as defined by the policy terms, and has been established as 
effective. Ms M hasnt provided any further evidence from her consultant about clinical trials, 
assessments and medical journals which show that since the most recent NICE guidelines 
the procedure with mesh is now recognised and has now been established as effective. So 
I think AXA PPP reasonably considered that the most recent NICE guidelines are still 
relevant.
As to the information in the medical articles which Ms M provided I explained in my 
provisional findings that I thought AXA PPPs letter of 26 August 2022 to her, giving the 
reasons why it wasnt persuaded by that evidence that the procedure had been established 
to be effective, was reasonable. I think AXA PPP reasonably considered from the 
information that there was no high quality evidence that the procedure was effective.
For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings I think:The procedure with mesh isnt covered by the policy terms, and 
AXA PPP reasonably relied on the most recent NICE guidelines about the procedure 
with mesh to say it shouldnt fairly and reasonably cover that treatment, and
AXA PPP acted within the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in telling Ms M it 
wont cover complications relating to the mesh. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman