DRN-4116704
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled their 
windscreen replacement claim under their car insurance policy. 
Although Mrs R is a named driver on the policy, Mr R is the policyholder  so Ill mostly refer 
to him in this decision.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy; that is, it is Mr Rs insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of Avivas agents. As Aviva has accepted its accountable for the 
actions of its agents, any reference in my decision to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his car insurance policy with Aviva for a windscreen replacement. The 
work was carried out by Avivas agent. But when Mr Rs car was returned to him, he noticed 
a fault with the indicator. Mr R complained to Aviva about this.
Avivas agent said it didnt cause the fault with the indicator. But Aviva said its agent gave it 
no evidence to support this conclusion. So Aviva arranged for Mr Rs car to be repaired 
under the terms of his car insurance policy and gave Mr R the use of a courtesy car while his 
was unavailable. Aviva says it also waived Mr Rs policy excess, settled the claim as non-
fault and kept Mr Rs no claims discount intact.
There were delays by Aviva in carrying out the repairs and Mr R and Mrs R complained 
about these. In response, Aviva reimbursed Mr R for some taxi costs hed incurred. And 
Aviva acknowledged that, while Mr Rs car was being repaired, it shouldve given him clear 
updates on progress, so as to put Mr Rs mind at ease, especially given there were several 
delays. Aviva says it has paid Mr R £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him.
Mr R complained to us saying Avivas compensation was low given the level of distress, 
disruption and financial loss he and Mrs R had experienced. He says he expected a 
significantly higher sum, at least around £500. 
The investigator who looked at Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint didnt uphold it. She agreed with 
how Aviva had settled Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint and thought it had compensated them 
fairly for the service issues theyd had.
Mr R disagrees with our investigators view. He says the compensation Aviva offered is very 
low considering the stress and anguish it caused. So Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint has come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking at the timeline of events Mr R has sent us, I can see it took a day or so for Aviva to 
agree to carry out the repair to the indicator. Mr R says this meant there was one day when 
having no car meant Mrs R was unable to work and so lost earnings. 
Aviva says its personal car insurance policies dont cover loss of earnings. And Mr R hasnt 
given us any evidence to show Mrs Rs lost income. So, in these circumstances, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to award additional compensation for loss of earnings.
I can see it took Aviva a number of weeks to complete the repair. Mr R has described the 
impact this has had on him. He had the inconvenience both of making arrangements with 
Aviva and its agents to get the use of the courtesy car and of getting Aviva to agree to pay 
for the taxis Mrs R needed to get for work (until the courtesy car was available). Mr R had 
the added stress and inconvenience of this happening at a time when he and Mrs R were 
preparing to go on holiday. And it was while they were on holiday that Aviva told Mr R 
thered be a delay in getting the repair completed. Mr R says this interfered with his 
enjoyment of his holiday. And then, on his return, Mr R had some difficulties with the 
courtesy cars hed been given (one of which broke down on the drive back from the airport) 
and there was a further delay in getting his car repaired during which time he says he wasnt 
contacted by Aviva.
Aviva accepts poor communication about continued delays didnt give Mr R a good 
customer experience. It says better signposting about the delays, why they were caused 
and regular updates wouldve given Mr R reassurance that everything was under control.
I agree with Avivas conclusion that Mr R didnt have a good customer journey. Its clear that, 
because of its failings, Mr R had to go to some effort to sort things out. And the experience 
Mr R describes is one he clearly found acutely stressful at times. But I think the 
compensation of £250 that Aviva has paid Mr R is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced and in line with what Id expect Aviva to pay in 
these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to accept or reject my 
decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman