DRN-2669624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined to extend the term of their 
interest only mortgage. They ask that it extends the term to 2025.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an interest only mortgage with Lloyds in 2001, with further borrowing 
in 2006. The term was due to expire in 2010. Lloyds agreed to extend the term to 2019. It 
didnt agree to extend the term again when it expired in 2019.
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds acted unfairly and didnt take their circumstances into account.
Our investigator said Lloyds had considered Mr and Mrs Ls proposals and looked at other 
options. The investigator said it hadnt acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs L took out their interest only mortgage they intended to repay it from the 
sale of Mr Ls business. Mr L says the value of his business was badly affected by the 2008 
banking crisis. Lloyds agreed to extend the term to 2019, to allow Mr L time to sell his 
business to repay the mortgage. The term expired in 2019 with an unpaid balance.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs L asked Lloyds to extend the term to 2025, by which time Mr L will be 
80 years old. They think its unlikely theyll be able to re-mortgage with another lender and 
dont want to sell their house at this time. Mr L says the sales value of his house is 
temporarily depressed due to concerns about flooding in the area. He says they're unlikely to 
be left with much, if any, equity if they sell now. Mr L put forward proposals to Lloyds. This 
included buying life cover, undertakings to sell his business and/or the property to clear the 
mortgage by 2025, and an undertaking not to sue Lloyds for mis-selling the interest only 
mortgage. Mr L says his business will increase in value.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr and Mrs L want to vary their 
mortgage by extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Lloyds cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances to do so. Lloyds can fairly take this into 
account when considering whats in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests. I should also say that 
while the exception allows Lloyds to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about 
affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another 
reason. 
Lloyds declined Mr and Mrs Ls request for an interest only extension. It says Mr and Mrs L 
have had enough opportunity to repay the mortgage through the sale of business assets. It 
says while Mr and Mrs L dont want to sell their property to repay the mortgage, theyre likely 
to find themselves having to do so at the end of any extension.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs L dont meet its criteria for a lifetime mortgage. It says theyre 
outside the maximum loan to value criteria for a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO) or 
for an equity release product. Switching to repayment or part repayment terms isnt 
affordable for Mr and Mrs L. Lloyds suggested Mr and Mrs L take independent financial 
advice to see if there are other options available to them.
Mr and Mrs L are in a difficult position. They cant repay the mortgage balance without 
selling their home, which, understandably, they dont want to do. Mr L has said they dont 
want to be out of home ownership at their ages, or have to move away from their community. 
Mr L says he has business prospects which will develop over the next two to three years, 
which would put them in a better position to repay the mortgage balance. I must take into 
account here that Mr and Mrs L planned to repay the mortgage by the sale of Mr Ls 
business, or parts of it, when they took out the mortgage in 2001 and when they extended 
the term in 2010. Unfortunately, they werent able to do so. While Mr L is optimistic about the 
prospects for his business, theres no guarantee that its value will increase so as to cover 
the cost of repaying the mortgage. At the end of an interest-only extension its possible Mr 
and Mrs L would be in the same position, having to sell their property to repay the balance.
Theres also no guarantee that the value of Mr and Mrs Ls house will increase. While Mr L 
says the houses value is temporarily depressed, its been valued at an amount which is 
enough to repay the debt owed to Lloyds. Theres no guarantee this would be the case at 
the end of any extension. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs L would have paid more interest. 
They would also be older at the end of an extension and might find selling the property more 
difficult. I dont think its clearly in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests for Lloyds to extend the term 
of their mortgage.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly, and I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require it to extend the term of their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L can consider taking independent financial advice about their options, if they 
havent done so. Id urge them to keep Lloyds informed about the steps theyre taking to 
repay the mortgage. I must remind Lloyds of its duty to treat Mr and Mrs L fairly. It should 
take any guidance published by the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mr and Mrs L 
arent able to repay the mortgage Lloyds will be entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman