DRN-3359116
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
(UKI) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after W was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr A, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf through a representative. For 
ease, Ill refer to all the submissions as being from W. 
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. Ws business was one which was 
permitted to remain open under the Governments Regulations. But a staff member was 
forced to self-isolate because she was living with someone with Covid-19 and W took the 
decision to close the business to keep everyone safe. W claimed on the policy.
UKI said the policy covered business interruption as a result of an occurrence of a human 
infectious or contagious disease at the premises. But UKI said that W had not shown there 
had been a case of Covid-19 at the premises and turned down its claim. 
UKI also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test 
case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Ws policy wording. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, W brought its complaint to our service. In summary, W said 
that:
A staff member had been forced to self-isolate on 24 March 2020, in line with 
Government Regulations, when a person she lived with tested positive for Covid-19. 
W had been very concerned about this staff member having the virus and passing it 
to other staff. Mr A closed the business on 27 March 2020 to comply with the 
Government directive and to keep everyone safe. It had not been possible for Mr A to 
arrange a test to see if he himself was infected.
Mr As mother sadly passed away on 3 April 2020. She had been hospitalised shortly 
before her death and tested positive for Covid-19. Hed visited his mother in hospital, 
which had been inundated with confirmed cases of the virus and she had been in a 
Covid-19 positive ward. 
The hospital was in the same vicinity as W, where there had been a significant 
outbreak of Covid-19. W says that UKI was incorrect to conclude that Ws claim was 
not impacted by the FCA test case. The Supreme Court judgement delivered the 
exact argument as W; that is, proximity of an outbreak to the premises.
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
W had shown it was more likely than not that there was a case a Covid-19 at its business 
premises. 
W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
W also complained about the service it had received from its insurance broker when raising 
its claim. Our investigator has explained to W that it would need to bring a separate 
complaint about the broker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr As loss. Im also sorry to hear that the pandemic and the 
Governments related actions have had an impact on Ws business. However, I wont be 
upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ws claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ws policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
the occurrence at the Premises of murder suicide food or drink poisoning, vermin 
pests defective sanitation or any human infectious or contagious disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition) an 
outbreak of which the local or Government Authority has stipulated shall be notified 
to them
Covid-19 is a human infectious or contagious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover 
for Ws claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result 
of a case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case at the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
W has explained that its staff member had to self-isolate when a person she lived with tested 
positive for Covid-19, and that this was a few days before W took the decision to close the 
business. Mr A also visited his mother in hospital before she sadly passed away on 3 April 
2020, and Ive read what hes said about her being in a Covid-19 positive ward. 
Our investigator has asked W whether it has any evidence available to show there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at Ws premises. W hasnt provided any evidence in addition to the 
statement made by Mr A on 11 February 2022.
W has not provided any evidence to show that its staff member and/or Mr A had symptoms 
or a diagnosis of Covid-19. The evidence that W has provided does not demonstrate that 
there was more likely than not Covid-19 at Ws premises, as required for a successful claim under the policy. 
I recognise that in closing Ws business acted with the intention of keeping everyone safe. 
But to uphold Ws complaint, Id need to decide it was more likely than not that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at its premises. In this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence that there 
was a case of Covid-19 at Ws premises. So, I consider that UKI fairly turned down Ws 
claim. 
Ive noted Mr As testimony about Covid-19 being in the vicinity of Ws premises. W says that 
UKI was incorrect to conclude that Ws claim was not impacted by the FCA test case, 
referring, in particular, to the Courts judgement on the proximity of an outbreak of Covid-19 
to the premises. 
In the FCA test case, the court looked at radius disease clauses, being those that provide 
cover for business interruption as a consequence of or following or arising from the 
occurrence of a notifiable disease within a specified radius of the insured premises. But 
importantly Ws policy required there to be Covid-19 at the Premises. As W hasnt 
demonstrated that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises, I think that UKI 
was correct to conclude that Ws claim was not affected by the FCA test case. 
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to W but, having considered the matter 
very carefully I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay its claim. 
Finally, I have not considered Ws complaint about its insurance broker in this decision about 
the insurer, UKI. As our investigator has explained, W would need to make a separate 
complaint about its insurance broker should it wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman