DRN-1311835
 
The complaint
 Miss W complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold a payment protection  
 insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Miss W in 1998. The policy 
provided Miss W with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If LBS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Ws needs?
-           Did LBS give Miss W the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
W is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss W says she was put under pressure to buy the PPI, and was given the impression she 
wouldnt get the mortgage she wanted if she didnt take the policy. She says LBS didnt give 
her a proper choice about buying the PPI. Ive noted everything Miss W has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss W and LBS 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.LBS hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, which isnt surprising given the 
amount of time thats passed. But its provided samples of the documents that were in use at 
the time Miss W took out her mortgage. I think its more likely than not that Miss W wouldve 
completed similar documents when she arranged her mortgage. 
Miss W says the documents were completed by the LBS adviser and that she wasnt 
responsible for filling them in. But I note that the PPI application form she signed, had three 
separate sections  one for those choosing the PPI, one for customers who had made 
other mortgage protection arrangements and one for those who chose not to protect their 
mortgage repayments. 
Given that the form required a specific section to be completed depending on the customer's 
circumstances, I don't think the PPI application couldve been completed without some sort 
of discussion about the cover. So I think its likely the LBS adviser wouldve made Miss W 
aware of her options and that Miss W chose to take the PPI. 
In addition, from what Ive seen, there wasnt anything in the PPI application form or the 
mortgage documents to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Miss W has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that LBS didnt give her a choice about buying the PPI. 
LBS accepts that it advised Miss W to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-           Miss W was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-           Miss W says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt 
work due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to her 
occupational benefits and would mean Miss W could use those benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Miss W would have had some use for the policy despite her existing 
arrangements.
-           Miss W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Miss W before she agreed 
to buy it. But she bought the policy knowing she would have to pay something for it. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit wasnt enough to cover her 
monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the lender gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its likely that she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said, Miss W wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Miss W would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman