DRN-1568247
The complaint
Mrs P complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) made changes to its 
payment process resulting in her being unable to make debit card payments online. 
What happened
Around July 2019, Mrs P attempted to purchase premium bonds online using her debit card - 
which was issued by a third party. She complained to NS&I after the transaction failed 
several times. 
NS&I explained that it had updated its payment process in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidelines. This meant the address it held needed to match the address held 
by Mrs P's card issuer. NS&I updated its own record of Mrs P's address to resolve the 
problem. 
However, Mrs P was still unhappy as she continued to experience problems making 
payments online. NS&I says Mrs P's debit card failed its background checks (although it 
couldn't confirm why) and suggested that Mrs P speak to her card issuer. NS&I explained it 
couldn't do anything more to help and offered Mrs P the option of making her purchase via 
cheque or bank transfer. 
NS&I later paid Mrs P £320 as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience this issue caused 
her. It also paid her £30 compensation after failing to respond to one of Mrs P's emails. 
Mrs P asked this service to step in as she wanted NS&I to do something to correct the issue 
she was experiencing. Our investigator didn't think NS&I needed to do anything more. The 
investigator was satisfied that NS&I had acted fairly to resolve the issue and had made a fair 
compensation award. Mrs P responded that the problem has nothing to do with her card 
issuer as she's able to make purchases elsewhere. Mrs P added that she's not willing to use 
the alternative means of payment mentioned, as she says it's down to NS&I to remedy the 
problem.
As Mrs P didn't agree, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be asking NS&I 
to do anything more. I know Mrs P will be disappointed, so I'll explain why.
It seems the problem first started after NS&I updated its payment process - so it's possible 
that the problem Mrs P is experiencing is related to this. It's not for me to determine how 
NS&I should conduct its business, but if I think Mrs P has been unfairly affected by this 
change, I may require it to take appropriate steps to address that.
Theres no doubt Mrs P was affected by this change, given her normal means of buying 
bonds has been via debit card. But when NS&I realised there was a problem, it took steps to 
deal with matters. NS&I says it updated its records to reflect Mrs P's address as per her instructions - so that it will match the records held by her card issuer. And I've seen a copy of 
its internal records that demonstrate this is the case. 
I appreciate Mrs P continues to experience problems making a payment with her debit card - 
NS&I says it can't determine exactly why the payments fail and concluded it was due to the 
debit card background checks. Based on the evidence available to me, that seems a 
reasonable conclusion for it to have reached. NS&I also offered Mrs P alternative ways she 
can make payment, so she is able to buy bonds if she wishes to do so. 
Mrs P wants NS&I to effectively change its payment process so that she can continue to 
make purchases online using her debit card. She says the FCA guidelines arent compulsory 
so NS&I shouldnt have made changes in line with this guidance. NS&I doesnt come under 
FCA regulation  but Id certainly expect it to consider how guidelines issued by the UK 
financial regulator might be incorporated into its processes as a matter of good industry 
practice.
Im satisfied NS&I was entitled to take this approach. Its unfortunate that it means Mrs P 
cant currently buy bonds using her debit card, but she is able to do so by other means. If 
she doesnt want to do this, thats her decision. But in my view, NS&I has provided Mrs P 
with a reasonable way to work around the current problem, and Im not going to require it to 
take any further steps.
NS&I paid Mrs P £320 for the inconvenience this issue caused her. It also paid her a further 
£30 after admitting it hadnt responded to one of Mrs Ps emails. I note Mrs P says this 
amount appropriately reflects the level of inconvenience she has suffered. In light of my 
conclusions above, I see no reason to review the level of compensation NS&I paid Mrs P. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied National Savings & Investments has taken 
appropriate steps to deal with Mrs Ps complaint. I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman