DRN-1963722
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Chubb European Group SE. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his car insurance policy with Chubb. It appointed a specialist 
repairer and looked to repair his prestigious car. The rear bumper required replacing and 
when Mr P realised this he asked Chubb if he could keep it. He wanted to turn it into a piece 
of furniture.
But Chubb wouldnt return the bumper. It followed its own internal guidance which says it 
doesnt return parts that have been damaged in accidents. This is because it looks to ensure 
parts that have been damaged dont get returned to the road and that they are disposed of in 
an environmental way. 
Mr P wasnt happy about this and so he complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he sympathised with Mr P he 
didnt think Chubb had done anything wrong. He thought Chubb had acted in line with its 
internal guidance and that it had dealt with his claim appropriately, so it didnt need to do 
anymore.
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration as he simply wants the bumper from his car returned so 
he could create a piece of artistic furniture. But although I can understand why he has 
complained I have to be fair to both sides. And I dont think Chubb has acted unreasonably 
here. Ill explain why. 
Chubb has dealt with Mr Ps claim in line with his policy terms and conditions. It repaired his 
car following a claim and the bumper was replaced by the specialist repairer. And so it dealt 
with his claim in line with the policy and repaired the car accordingly.
Turning to Mr Ps request to have his bumper returned Chubb has provided a copy of its 
internal guidance that shows how it deals with all salvage including parts. It clearly explains 
that Chubb doesnt allow the release of salvaged parts and it looks to recycle them 
environmentally. It also outlines its concerns that it would be held liable for any parts that 
return to circulation having been involved in an accident. And I can understand any concern 
about damaged parts being reused and that Chubb doesnt want to be held responsible for 
this.
I know Mr P wasnt planning to reuse the part on a car and was only looking to make a piece 
of furniture. But I wouldnt expect Chubb to create a guide to cover every eventuality and it is 
possible that the bumper could go on to be used on a car although I accept this is unlikely. 
Furthermore, once Chubb repaired Mr Ps car the bumper was its property. So I dont think 
that it would be fair to expect Chubb to just hand the part over free of charge in any event.
Finally Mr P has also raised the point that he knows other insurers have returned prestigious 
car parts to customers following a claim. And he says he wouldve looked to take out a 
different policy had he have known this. I must point out that any suggestion the policy was 
mis-sold would have to be taken up with the broker that sold the policy. But I dont think Mr P 
couldve known he wouldve made this claim and looked to get the part back before taking 
out the policy. And I dont think there would be any way of knowing what internal processes 
and procedures an insurer would have before making a claim like this. So I dont think it is 
likely the policy was mis-sold in any event.
So, although I can understand Mr Ps frustration, I dont think Chubb has done anything 
wrong here. And I cant tell it to change its established guidelines about not allowing 
damaged parts back into circulation as that is its commercial decision which I cant interfere 
with.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman