DRN-4162263
The complaint
Miss S complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out proportionate affordability 
checks before it granted her loans.
Miss S also says she made the agent aware of her mental health issues and this wasnt 
noted on Morses system.
What happened
Miss S was advanced three home collected loans and Ive included some of the information 
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £250.00 03/03/2021 11/10/2021 34 £12.50
2 £250.00 30/06/2021 outstanding 35 £12.50
3 £250.00 11/10/2021 outstanding 35 £12.50
Miss S has had some problems repaying her final two loans and Morses says the account
remains with it but she is making payments as part of a debt plan.
Following Miss Ss complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold it.
Miss S didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 and 2 so she didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint about them.
However, the adjudicator said when loan 3 was approved, given her loan history and the
decrease in her income she thought Morses ought to have carried out further checks. Had it
done so, it wouldve likely discovered a number of gambling transactions and so Morses
ought to not have provided the loan.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan 3. Ive
summarised its comments below;
There was no requirement for Morses to review Miss Ss bank statements and 
therefore it wouldnt have been aware of Miss Ss gambling history.
Miss Ss income for loan 3 was confirmed by a credit reference agency.
Morses used figures from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and pre-populated 
minimum figures for expenditure which included rent, council tax, utilities, insurance, 
transport, groceries, media and childcare.
Miss S declared that her rent was paid by benefits and that she did not have any 
insurance, transport or childcare costs and signed her agreement to confirm all 
information she had provided was correct.
After the complaint was passed for a decision, further enquires were made with Miss S about
her health and her current situation. Enquires were also made with Morses about the
outstanding balance and when it first became aware of Miss Ss mental health diagnoses.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to still uphold 
Miss Ss complaint in part. Both parties were asked to provide anything further for 
consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 31 May 2023. 
Miss S didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Morses, confirmed that the loan applications were made online and that it had nothing 
further to add. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in a smaller font and in italics and forms part of 
this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Miss Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Neither Morses nor Miss S appear to disagree with the outcome the adjudicator reached
about loans 1 and 2. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute and so I say no
more about them. Instead, this decision has focused on what happened when loan 3 was
advanced.
Loan 3
This loan was advanced on the same day that Miss S had repaid loan 1  and she was
borrowing the same amount.
Morses has shown that it asked Miss S for details of her income and expenditure. Miss S
declared her weekly income was now £250 per week. But this was a significant decrease
from what she had declared at loan 1 - £347 each week and the £300 each week she had
declared for loan 2.
Morses also says Miss Ss income was verified with a credit reference agency for its
accuracy. And Morses says this check showed it could rely on her declared income, no
evidence of this check (or the results) has been provided.
In terms of expenditure, Morses has recorded weekly outgoings of £101 but around £42 of
that was other credit commitments. Meaning that all of Miss Ss living costs came to around
£59 per week. Which I really dont think is reasonable. Indeed, her food costs had decreased
from £40 per week at loan 2 to only £15 per week at loan 3. To me this doesnt seem
plausible.
This left weekly disposable income of £149 to be able to afford the loan repayment due for
this loan of £12.50. Morses couldve been reasonably confident she would be able to afford
the repayments she was committed to making. But I do think its fair to say that at this point
in time, Morses ought to have had some concerns about the information Miss S was
providing about her living costs.
So, its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering the consecutive nature
of Miss Ss borrowing, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew about
Miss Ss finances  which Ive mentioned above about her income and expenditure.
By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out
further checks in this case.
One way it couldve carried out further checks into Miss Ss financial situation couldve been
to have asked to see details of her benefits and her outgoings, bank statements or any other
documentation that Morses felt it needed to obtain in order to satisfy itself that Miss S could
repay the loan.
Miss S has provided copy bank statements from around the time this loan was approved and
so, I think its reasonable to consider these. And like the adjudicator I can see that Miss S
was a frequent user of gambling websites to the extent that had Morses looked at her bank
statements it wouldve likely concluded the loan was neither affordable nor sustainable.
I am therefore planning to uphold Miss Ss complaint about loan 3.
Other considerations
I want to be clear I have considered everything that Miss S has disclosed to the Financial
Ombudsman about her medical history and diagnoses  which stretches back a number of
years and does coincide with the dates that she took loans from Morses.
In short, Miss S says she told her agent about her disorder and that at the time the loanswere approved she was having a stressful time. Miss S says, one of the side effects of her
disorder is that it can include periods of impulsive spending such as on gambling.
The documentation Miss S has provided about her health shows her mental health has been
a concerned for several years. Indeed, the letter she provided is dated July 2021, which is
in-between loans 2 and 3 and details some recent help and support which she sought.
So, I think its fair to say, based on Miss Ss testimony and the medical evidence she has
provided she has had a need for ongoing treatment and support for some time. However, I
do not need to outline everything here, but I do hope she is still receiving the help and
support that she needs, and I wish her well for the future.
Whereas, Morses says that it was unaware of Miss Ss vulnerability until she raised her
complaint with it in June 2022. In addition, Morses also said:
I can confirm all of the loans were issued as faster payments so these were done
remotely online.
The customer made all her payments through our online portal.
Indicating perhaps, as these were remote loans then Miss S may not have had face-to-face
contact with Morses agent. In response to the provisional decision Morses may wish to
clarify this.
So, it seems that at the very least the agent didnt note down any discussions that may
have been had between them and Miss S, and it has reiterated it didnt know about
Miss Ss vulnerability. However, that isnt the only thing I have to consider.
I also have to consider ought Morses to have been aware of Miss Ss health and even if it
was aware, does that mean that Miss S shouldnt have been provided with her loans?
Ive therefore looked at and considered regulatory Mental Capacity Guidance in the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) CONC Chapter 2.10 with which I am familiar. In summary I have to
decide whether Morses knew or ought to have known at the time the loans were granted. If
the answer to either one of these questions is yes, then I have to go on to consider whether
Morses ought to have lent the loans.
I would be surprised if there was no discussion about Miss Ss health considering that we
know from the checks Morses knew that Miss S was in receipt of benefits and as a result
she didnt have any rent payments. I also dont think its an unreasonable leap to say that
she wouldve likely disclosed the type of benefit she was receiving and the reasons for that.
However, I have kept in mind that even if Morses or its agent did have any grounds to
suspect that Miss S had a diagnosed mental health problem this doesnt mean it was
necessarily wrong for the loans to be granted.
This has been part of my consideration. So, in short, I have to be satisfied that Morses either
knew or ought to have known about Miss Ss vulnerability but equally even if it did know
about her vulnerabilities that doesnt mean it was necessarily wrong for it to have advanced
the loans.
Ultimately, the indicators mentioned in the guidance have helped me, and while it is clear
that Miss S has been unwell for a number of years and has at times sought extra help and
support, I really dont have enough evidence in this case to say that even if Morses knew
about Miss Ss mental health problems that it ought to mean all the loans shouldnt have
been granted to her.
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision on this case in relation to this aspect
of her complaint, but I do hope she understand as to why Ive come to these conclusions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Morses for confirming Miss Ss loan applications were made online and so there was 
no face-to-face contact. However, I dont think that detracts from the points I made in the 
provisional decision because Morses accepts, as part of the application it knew of Miss Ss 
benefit payments and perhaps that ought to have led it to question Miss S further. And I still 
dont think knowing this detracts from the findings because as I explained, even if Morses did 
know about Miss Ss mental health problems I still think, based on what I had it wouldve 
granted her loans. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still dont 
think Morses ought to have approved loan 3 for Miss S because further checks wouldve 
highlighted a significant amount of online gambling to the extent that Morses ought to have 
realised the loan wasnt sustainable or affordable for her. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Miss S in relation 
to loan 3. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had if it had not provided loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Miss S with loan 3.
A. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on
loan 3, and treat any repayments made by Miss S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss S having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance due then the amounts calculated in A 
should be used to repay any other balance remaining on outstanding loans. If 
this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss S.
C. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit 
file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ss 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman