DRN-3299566
The complaint
Mr N complains that JD Williams & Company Limited (JDW) irresponsibly increased the 
credit limit on his account without having regard to his financial circumstances.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
Mr N opened his account with JDW in December 2015 where he was given a credit limit of 
£125. His limit was later increased to £200 in August 2017 and was then further increased 
incrementally to £1,300 by March 2018. Mr N does not think this was responsible of JDW, as 
he could not afford the increase in payments, which has led to him falling into financial 
difficulty. 
JDW say that Mr Ns credit limit increases were always lower than his shadow limit, and that 
his credit score continued to remain stable. He also hadnt exceeded his credit limit, so they 
considered that the increases were affordable and that the checks they completed were 
proportionate. 
With regards to whether the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate, I can 
see that the investigator had considered JDWs obligations in line with CONC 5.2A, which 
isnt correct as this didnt come into force until November 2018. However, I dont consider 
this error to ultimately make a difference to the outcome of this case, as Im satisfied the 
obligations on JDW with regards to the creditworthiness assessment were still the same. 
Both the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible lending guidance (in force between March 2010 
and April 2014) and the FCAs previous CONC rules (in force between April 2014 to 
November 2018) required an assessment of affordability which was proportionate, in order to 
determine if a borrower could afford to repay the money being lent.
CONC 6.2 (in force at the time) set out that before significantly increasing the amount of 
credit, a lender must undertake an assessment of the customers creditworthiness, and 
CONC 5.3 states that any such checks must proportionate (and includes what information 
should be taken into account). I appreciate that the individual increases in Mr Ns credit limit 
were relatively small in isolation. But between August 2017 and March 2018, Mr Ns credit 
limit had increased from £200 to £1,300  a 550% increase over the space of seven months. 
So, looking at the overall cumulative increase, Im satisfied it can reasonably be regarded as 
significant in these circumstances. Mr N says he was only able to pay the minimum amount 
each month, yet he continued to receive further credit increases. 
In circumstances where a consumers finances are not shown to be stable, and they are 
having their credit limit increased where they could be expected to have to repay a larger 
amount, an affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater 
degree of verification, in order for it to be considered fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Mr N had fallen into financial difficulty in the past, and there were even occasions where he 
had fallen into arrears and didnt make his minimum repayments by the due date. JDW had 
also agreed to an interest free payment period while he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
But while I appreciate they may not have increased his credit limit around this time, given 
that he did not have a stable financial history I would have expected JDWs checks to have 
been more detailed in order to determine whether any credit increases would be affordable 
for Mr N and wouldnt put him at risk of falling into financial difficulty again.
JDW say they conducted both internal and external checks before processing any credit limit 
increases.  But they have not been able to evidence all the checks they say they carried out 
 for example, they have not provided any evidence of their internal credit scoring 
techniques and neither have they been able to demonstrate any other verification/checks 
they carried out into Mr Ns financial position at the time (such as a review of his income and 
expenditure). They have provided a copy of the external data they received from the credit 
reference agencies. But this is not enough in itself to demonstrate that JDW has in fact 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in these circumstances. 
Given Mr Ns history of arrears, late payments and experiencing financial difficulty, I dont 
think it would have been disproportionate for JDW to carry out an income and expenditure 
check before implementing any further credit limit increases. However, JDW have not been 
able to evidence that this was carried out either. If they had carried out such checks, Im 
satisfied it would have likely been apparent that any further increases in lending would not 
have been affordable for Mr N, and would have likely had an adverse impact on his financial 
position (as indeed, it eventually did). 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that JDW have acted fairly and reasonably by increasing 
Mr Ns credit limit here, as they have not been able to evidence that they carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct JD Williams & Company 
Limited to:
Refund Mr N all interest and charges incurred as a result of any credit limit increases 
applied from August 2017 onwards;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the date he paid it to the date of 
settlement;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ns credit file (if applicable) from 
August 2017 onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman