DRN-3196114
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
 
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in September 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
R into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to the consumer. Shed seen the point of sale 
documentation and she was satisfied that the information included within this shouldve 
made it reasonably clear to Mr R that the benefits of the panels wouldnt cover the costs of 
his interest-free credit loan agreement. So, although she recognised Mr Rs testimony 
disputed this, she wasnt persuaded Ikano had acted unfairly and because of this, she didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr R didnt agree, so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
adjudicator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr R. I recognise Mr R feels 
strongly that the solar panels were mis-sold to him. And because of this, hes been 
financially dis-advantaged. But for me to agree, I need to be satisfied, based on the evidence 
available to me, that Mr R was mis-led at the point of sale. So, I need to be satisfied Mr R 
had no reasonable way of knowing the solar panels were not likely to be self-funding. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly. And Ive seen on this contract, the note IFC 36 
was written at the top of the contract in red pen. And I think its reasonable for me to assume 
this referred to the loan agreement Mr R entered into, where he agreed to pay the remaining 
balance of £7,675.00 over a 36-month term. Ive no evidence that shows Mr R has disputed 
the fact he agreed for the loan to be paid over 36 months.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit and next to that on the right are two alternative figures, of which the 
higher is £789.47. I think this figure is made clear; it is not buried in some fine print. To the 
left it says the finance amount is £7975, with the finance type listed as Ikano IFC which I 
think is reasonable to assume related to the IFC 36 noted on the same document. This 
document was signed by Mr R immediately below those figures, and so I think that the 
installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention.
The interest of the loan does not appear on this document, and so I can understand why Mr 
R may have overlooked this. However, I think one third of the amount borrowed would 
clearly come to well over £2,000 each year. And that is more than triple the stated benefit 
figure for the first year. So, I think it shouldve been reasonably clear to Mr R that the solar 
panels wouldnt be self-funding on this basis.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr R about the benefits and 
costs of the panels. I think it was made reasonably clear that the panels would not be self-
funding during the term of the loan. And so, I dont think Ikano need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Ikano Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman