DRN-4176452
The complaint
Mr S complains that Wealth Solutions (UK) Limited (Wealth Solutions) failed to advise him 
about Lifetime Allowance (LTA) protection resulting in him incurring additional LTA tax 
charges on his Self Invested Personal Pension Plan. He would like compensation for the 
losses suffered. 
What happened
Wealth Solutions and its predecessors had acted for Mr S for many years. He says the 
agreement with it was for it to provide him with ongoing advice and recommendations about 
his financial affairs. It says he was an experienced investor who took an active lead in the 
underlying investment decisions and tax matters. Mr S says he was encouraged to pay 
pension contributions by Wealth Solutions because of the tax planning benefits and did so in 
March 2016, 2018, 2019 and February 2020. 
Mr S says the potential impact of the LTA wasnt considered until February 2021, around 
eight months before his 75th birthday, when his pension would be tested against his available 
LTA and any excess subject to tax. Wealth Solutions estimated the LTA tax charge payable 
by his fund would be around £71,000. He says it suggested he could apply for Fixed 
Protection 2016 (FP2016), which would increase his LTA limit and reduce the tax charge. 
But a few days later it said, having checked HMRCs rules, FP2016 wasnt available 
because hed paid contributions after April 2016. 
When the pension provider carried out the LTA check at age 75, Mr Ss fund exceeded the 
limit available to him by around £284,000, resulting in an LTA tax charge of £71,066.04. He 
complained about this to Wealth Solutions. He said had he been advised about FP2016 he 
wouldnt have paid contributions and the tax charge would have been significantly lower. It 
rejected his complaint, saying Mr S had paid contributions after April 2016 without asking for 
or receiving advice from it. But it said there was some benefit in making the contributions. As 
income tax relief had been provided and the funds were outside his estate for IHT, which 
was his prime objective. And pension contributions were more efficient than alternatives hed 
suggested like EIS and VCT schemes. 
Wealth Solutions said the value of the pension on 6 April 2016 was around £140,000 lower 
than Mr Ss available LTA. And the LTA was expected to increase by inflation each year as 
provided for by legislation in 2015. It said its calculations showed investment returns of 
around 9% per annum would be needed over a period of over 5 years to exceed the likely 
LTA at age 75. It said this was an excessive investment return that wouldnt have been 
predicted or considered a likely investment outcome. And the only reason the LTA had been 
exceeded was because exceptional returns had been achieved. And it said the change in 
legislation in 2016, that the LTA wouldnt increase by inflation wasnt its responsibility.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, and she upheld 
the complaint.
She said Mr S was paying Wealth Solutions for ongoing advice and that it had a 
responsibility to act in his best interests and consider the impact of him paying further 
contributions to his plan. She said by 2018 it should have been clear that the plan value was 
close to the LTA. And it should have known Mr S might want to apply for FP2016 and that if 
any further contributions were paid this option would be lost. So, it should have intervened 
and made him aware of the issue. She said there was no particular need for Mr S to make 
contributions in 2018 and it was likely that he would have accepted its guidance as his 
pension adviser. 
Our investigator said with FP2016 Mr Ss pension fund would have paid less in LTA tax 
charges. So, Wealth Solutions should undertake a calculation to establish if there was a loss 
and if so, pay this to him, adding interest at 8% per year simple from 15 March 2022 (when 
the tax was paid) until settled. She also said Mr S had been inconvenienced by what had 
happened and it should pay him £350 in compensation for this.
Mr S said he accepted our investigators view but Wealth Solutions did not. It agreed it knew 
Mr S intended to pay a contribution in March 2018 and said it could have taken the 
opportunity to point out the LTA position. But it said it was imperative to understand that 
Mr S viewed his pension as an IHT mitigation strategy. And that this was demonstrated as 
he hadnt accessed the fund and has no intention of doing so. 
Because of this Wealth Solutions said any loss calculation should reflect the IHT saving 
offered by the contributions and their investment growth compared to the amounts remaining 
invested and in Mr S estate. It set out calculations in respect of this to both age 75 and 86, 
which it said was Mr Ss life expectancy, showing a benefit in having paid the contributions. It 
also said its calculations showed that had Mr S asked for its advice about paying the 
contributions it was unlikely that it would be predicted that he exceed the LTA by age 75, 
so FP2016 is irrelevant.  
Mr S said Wealth Solutions had provided him with the paperwork to make the contribution in 
March 2018, having discussed it during the review meeting in January 2018. He said he 
totally refuted that he only saw the pension as an IHT mitigation strategy. He said he was 
now considering drawing some benefits as pension payments from another arrangement 
had been reduced. And if he hadnt made pension contributions, he would have used other 
tax efficient investments instead. 
Our investigator said her view hadnt changed. She said the loss calculation she proposed 
was based around LTA considerations not Mr Ss future IHT position which was subject to 
change. She said there wasnt a direct link between the additional LTA charge paid and the 
possible mitigation of IHT.
As Wealth Solutions doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
 
I think Wealth Solutions did make an error in not considering and discussing with Mr S 
whether he should have made the election for FP2016. Any possible impact of the LTA on a 
clients pension funds would be something I would expect a financial adviser providing 
ongoing advice and recommendations to have under active review, as the issues were well 
known. I dont agree that its calculations demonstrate FP2016 was irrelevant. Or that its 
clear that the payment of the further contributions has benefited his estate to offset the 
impact of the additional LTA charge incurred. Wealth Solutions says the contributions after 2016 were on a:
non-advised execution only basis  without seeking our advice regarding the 
suitability of the contributions.  
It hasnt shown evidence of how it received these execution instructions before Mr S paid the 
contribution in March 2018, despite accepting it knew he intended to pay a contribution. 
This contribution prevented him from being able to make an election for FP2016. 
Even if the contributions were on an execution only basis, Wealth Solutions was providing 
Mr S with ongoing advice on his financial arrangements and receiving payment for this. This 
was on its highest level of service, referred to as Tailored. This provided for ongoing 
reviews of his financial situation. The Service Proposition document provided to Mr S said 
there would be Ongoing Reviews and Changes to Existing Investments, including an 
assessment of your circumstances. So, I think it had a responsibility to consider matters 
potentially or actually impacting on Mr Ss pension arrangement.
Little evidence has been provided about the review meetings which were held twice a year. 
Wealth Solutions says it generally didnt follow up on these meeting with a written report. 
And, it hasnt provided any notes of these meetings or similar fact find type records. But one 
report was provided following the review meeting in July 2018, which says this was part of 
the ongoing service previously agreed and that it had:
reviewed your investments to ensure they are still suitable for your personal and 
financial situation 
As part of this review, we assessed the investments funds within the existing 
Pensions
I think its reasonable to conclude that this ongoing service was the basis of the relationship 
since Wealth Solutions began acting to Mr S in 2015. The report of July 2018 confirms the 
IHT treatment of the pension was discussed. It also advises that Mr Ss daughter shouldnt 
be a trustee of family trusts in place as she now resided outside the UK, which might cause 
tax issues. I think this shows that the consideration of wider tax matters was in Wealth 
Solutions remit and it provided wide ranging advice to Mr S.
But emails from February 2021 suggest that Wealth Solutions didnt consider the 
implications of the LTA for Mr S until then, shortly before his benefits would be tested against 
the LTA at age 75. It now accepts it hadnt previously raised the matter with him. But says its 
calculations show this fund couldnt have been expected to exceed the LTA limit, making 
considerations about FP2016 irrelevant. And that the LTA tax charge incurred is offset by tax 
savings elsewhere, particularly IHT. But Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
In terms of the offsetting argument, I dont disagree the tax treatment of pensions including 
income tax relief and IHT is attractive. Particularly in the event of death before age 75. But 
the position changes after this, with the overall after tax position being less clear cut. 
Depending on the circumstances, the beneficiaries of a pension fund would be taxed at their 
own marginal rate of income tax. So, it isnt tax free. That means it isnt possible to say the 
payment of the contributions has or will lead to an overall advantage and offset some or all 
of the additional lifetime allowance charge that has actually been incurred.  
And there was always going to be a test against the LTA, either when Mr S drew benefits, 
died or reached age 75. In this case this generated a higher charge to tax than would have 
been incurred had the FP2016 been made. So, paying pension contributions when the existing pension fund exceeds or is likely to exceed the available LTA limit, particularly as a 
person approached age 75 required some caution as a guaranteed LTA tax charge (since 
abolished) would undermine the other tax benefits  both actual and potential - of paying 
further contributions.  
As for the calculations using the April 2016 fund value showing that exceeding the expected 
LTA at 75 was unlikely. I think its fair to say that this argument would carry more weight had 
the calculation been made in 2016 rather than 2021. And had then been periodically updated 
in the interim to reflect what was actually happening to both the value of the fund and any 
relevant legislative changes. It isnt reasonable to argue that a retrospective calculation of 
the situation in April 2016 justifies the failure to provide advice to Mr S over 18 months later, 
when the situation had changed significantly and FP2016 was no longer irrelevant. 
By then, instead of increasing by inflation, the LTA limit had been frozen indefinitely, 
reducing the buffer between the current fund value and the now fixed LTA. And there had 
been a marked increase in the value of the pension fund. Something Wealth Solutions was 
well aware of as the value and performance of the investments were discussed at the six-
monthly review meetings. The purpose of which was to ensure Mr Ss financial 
arrangements were still suitable for him. 
The report letter following the July 2018 review confirms a value of around £753,000. This 
was around 70% of the £1,073,000 standard LTA and Mr S had already used 33.68% of his 
LTA. So, his fund exceeded his available LTA then. The report confirms that over the last 
six months the funds had stagnated in value. That suggests the fund also exceeded or was 
very close to the available LTA at the January 2018 review. This was before the contribution 
was paid in March 2018, that Wealth Solutions accepts it knew was intended. And once this 
had been paid the FP2016 LTA election was no longer available. 
The report continues that the overall annualised return on pension portfolio was 9%. And 
that no changes to the portfolio were suggested. It states that Mr Ss investment risk profile 
was scored as 8 of 10 High. It continues that such a portfolio would have:
a very strong potential for returns from your investments to go above the rate of 
inflation 
This suggests that the portfolio had the potential to continue to provide higher returns and 
might be likely to remain above the frozen £1,073,000 LTA. 
Wealth Solutions says that most of the LTA charge incurred is a result of good investment 
performance on the fund and legislative changes outside its control. That is true to an extent. 
But there was the planning opportunity to increase Mr Ss available LTA limit considerably to 
mitigate any charge. And the contributory legislative changes also occurred during this 
window of opportunity. So, I think all these issues were within Wealth Solutions control and it 
had a responsibility to raise them with Mr S and should have done so as part of its ongoing 
advice.  
If it had done so and then Mr S had decided against making the FP2016 election because of 
perceived advantages in paying further contributions, this would have been an informed 
decision. But I think it is more likely than not that he would have opted to use FP2016, 
securing the higher LTA limit and its likely a lower LTA charge would have been incurred. 
He could have then considered other IHT planning strategies if this issue was a concern to 
him. So, I dont think Mr S has been treated reasonably and if he has suffered losses as a 
consequence, its fair that this be put right.Putting things right
Wealth Solutions should now put Mr S, as closely as possible, back into the position he 
should have been in had he been provided with suitable advice an applied for FP2016. 
  
In order to do so, Wealth Solutions will need to follow these steps;
1. Work out the total benefit value for LTA purposes that Mr Ss fund would have been 
worth at his 75th birthday. Do not include in this value additional contributions that 
should have been stopped as a result of an application for Fixed Protection.
2. If the actual LTA Mr S had is higher than the total benefit value determined above, 
then no loss has been suffered. If this applies, no further steps are needed.
3. If the total benefit value determined above exceeds the actual LTA Wealth solutions 
needs to calculate what tax would have been payable had the notional protected LTA 
Mr S would have been entitled to on appropriate advice, applied.
4. Mr Ss loss is the difference between the tax he paid (£71,066.04) and the tax he 
would have paid on the total benefit value calculated above had the notional 
protected LTA applied.
5. 8% simple interest is to be added to the loss from 15 March 2022 (when the LTA 
charge was paid) until the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wealth solutions considers its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr 
S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate Wealth Solutions should pay the resulting overall compensation directly to Mr S 
as a cash settlement.
I consider this compensation fair as although Mr S received basic rate tax relief on
the additional contributions he made  which he wouldnt have been able to make had he 
applied for fixed protection. However, hes likely to pay basic tax rate when the funds are 
drawn out of the pension, so no further adjustment to the calculation is needed. And, had Mr 
S had use of the funds outside of his pension, I think its likely he would have invested them 
in a similar way to his pension. So, the returns would have likely been equal and no further 
adjustment is needed for that.
I think Mr S has suffered distress and inconvenience due to Wealth Solutions errors and it 
should pay him £350 in compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Wealth Solutions (UK) Limited.
I direct Wealth Solutions (UK) Limited to carry out the loss calculations set out above and if 
there is a loss, pay compensation to Mr S as outlined. 
I further direct Wealth Solutions (UK) Limited to pay Mr S £350 in compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman