DRN-2199861
The complaint
Miss M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited arranged for a block to be placed
on her mobile phone handset and says she is liable for the cost of another handset, following 
a claim on her policy.
What happened
Miss M had mobile phone insurance with Assurant. Her handset was stolen in January 2019 
and she claimed on her policy. Assurant accepted Miss Ms claim and sent her a 
replacement handset (handset A).
But handset A was a different model to the one Miss M had claimed for and she brought this
to Assurants attention. Assurant arranged for a doorstep exchange to take place. This
process involved a courier delivering the correct model (handset B) to Miss M and taking
back handset A at the same time.
Some days later Assurant wrote to Miss M to say handset A hadnt been returned to them.
Instead, the package theyd received contained a different device. Assurant told Miss M
shed need to return handset A to them, or a block would be placed on handset B so it
couldnt be used. Miss M says she spoke to Assurant about the letter twice and on both
occasions was told thered been a mix up and that handset B would not be blocked.
Miss M didnt use handset B straightaway. But when it was used a few months later, she 
found it didnt work. Miss M spoke to Assurant who confirmed handset B had been blocked 
as theyd still not received handset A back, following the earlier doorstep exchange.
Miss M complained to Assurant. She said shed handed handset A to the courier theyd sent.
And that the courier had checked it before handing her handset B in exchange. She was
also unhappy that after being told twice by Assurant handset B wouldnt be blocked, theyd
gone ahead and done so.
Assurant accepted Miss M had been given incorrect information by their advisors on both
occasions shed called them. They apologised but said the block had been applied correctly
as theyd not received handset A back. They refused to unblock handset B unless Miss M
returned the missing device to them or made a payment of £796.49 to cover the cost of it.
Assurant said they had evidence to show handset A had been exchanged with the
manufacturer for a new handset (handset C) and that handset C, identified by its unique 
IMEI number had then been added to the policy Miss Ms held with them.
Miss M remained unhappy, so brought her complaint to our service. She said shed handed
handset A to the courier in an unsealed box as shed been told to do by Assurant. Miss M
said shed been told shed need to show the courier handset A before shed receive a
replacement. Miss M said she did this and the courier had accepted it was the correct
handset before making the exchange, so she couldnt be held responsible for handset A
going missing. With regards to handset C being registered on her account, Miss M said
shed not been able to log into her online account with Assurant for a long time, so felt
handset C must have been added to her policy by someone from Assurant.
One of our investigators looked into things. She asked Assurant for information which she
felt was important to her investigation. This included CCTV from when handset A was
exchanged for handset C, IMEI history and meta-data from her online account. Assurant
responded saying they were unable to access the meta-data being requested as they could
not log in externally to Miss Ms account. They also said the CCTV belonged to the store the
exchange took place in and was not theirs to request.
Our investigator said she wasnt disputing Assurant hadnt received handset A back. But
without the additional information shed asked for, she didnt feel she could reasonably
exclude that other factors mightve been responsible for handset A going missing. She
upheld Miss Ms complaint.
Whilst Miss M accepted our investigators recommendations, Assurant disagreed. Assurant
said the courier who completed the doorstep exchange would not have been aware of what
he was collecting. Assurant further said handset C had been registered to Miss Ms policy
remotely by the account holder and that only Miss M or someone close to her would have
access to her account to do this.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision saying I 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. My provisional decision explained my thinking as 
follows:
What I provisionally decided  and why
Im aware my summary of the background above doesnt include every point made by either
Miss M or Assurant. No discourtesy is intended by this. Ive focused on what I consider to be
the key issues and evidence. My role is to decide if Assurant have dealt with Miss M in a fair
and reasonable way. Both parties have provided a detailed account of the events in
question, and Ive taken note of everything theyve said when reaching my decision.
Assurant told Miss M a block wouldnt be placed on handset B when she spoke to them
twice in January 2019. This was an error. A block was applied a few days later. Assurant
have acknowledged Miss M was given incorrect information and have apologised to her.
Whilst the block was applied soon after Assurant said it wouldnt be, Miss M didnt become
aware of it until she went to use handset B some months later. And when she did become
aware, Assurant advised her shed been given incorrect information straightaway. So, I think
Assurant have done enough to put things right.
Blocks were placed on both handsets A and B. And Assurant say, because handset A wasnt
returned to them the blocks were correctly applied. Ive seen screenshots provided by
Assurant which show the IMEI number of the handset they received back, and Im satisfied it
wasnt handset A. So, I need to decide if by taking the action to block Miss Ms handset,
Assurant acted fairly and reasonably towards her.
Assurant say they use an external courier company to conduct doorstep exchanges. And
that company arent privy to what the packages they pick up should contain. Miss M
disagrees. She says she was told by Assurant when calling to notify them shed received the
wrong handset that shed need to show the courier the handset before she received her
replacement. Because of this, she gave handset A to the courier in an unsealed box, and he
checked it was the correct handset before the exchange took place.
I think its unlikely a courier would be given the responsibility of verifying the contents of a
package they were picking up. They pick up and drop off multiple packages each day formultiple different companies. Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call in question.
And I dont agree with what Miss M has said she was told. When asked by Miss M if she
should seal the bag with handset A inside, the advisor for Assurant said:
yes definitely, if you put it in the same packaging and make sure its just packaged up
securely ready for us before reiterating that Miss M should package it how it came and
just hand it over.
I dont dispute the strength of Miss Ms recollections about what she was told by Assurant.
But after listening to what the advisor said, Im satisfied Miss M wasnt told to leave the
package unsealed or show the courier the contents of the package before handing it over.
Assurant have shown handset A was later exchanged with the manufacturer for handset C
and facial recognition was used to set up the new handset at the time. Miss M strongly
denies this was her. She says she didnt have handset A to exchange after handing it to the
courier. And I acknowledge Miss Ms previously asked for Assurant to request CCTV of the
handset being exchanged in store to prove this. Ive thought carefully about this, but the lack
of CCTV evidence doesnt change my decision. I say this because Its not for me to decide if
Miss M did or didnt exchange the handset  rather, whether Assurant acted fairly towards
her in blacklisting her phone.
Assurant have provided screenshots from their system which show the IMEI number of
handset C was added to Miss Ms insurance policy in April 2019. They say this could only
have been done by Miss M or by someone who had access to log into her account. Miss M
has said no one else has access to her account other than her, but she says she hasnt used
the account online for a long time. This is because it never works and doesnt allow her to
add devices to or remove devices from her policy. However, Assurant have said this isnt the
case. And theyve provided me with evidence that shows devices have been added to Miss
Ms policy this way. So, I think its reasonable to say she was able to access her account on
numerous occasions.
Miss M says shed already spoken to Assurant about handset B being blocked before
handset C was added to her insurance policy, but this wasnt the case. Handset C was
added to her policy the day before she called Assurant. Ive listened to a recording of the call
Miss M made to Assurant after shed just found out handset B has been blocked. Miss M
tells the advisor that shed removed handset B from her policy the day before  the same
day handset C was added. She said she removed it as shed planned to sell handset B so
she could get a different colour handset, but then had already got the different colour so was
giving handset B to her brother.
I understand Miss M has found this experience distressing, but there are inconsistencies in
her testimony which has made it harder for me to rely on what shes told us about what
happened. I know this will be difficult news for Miss M, but after taking the evidence available
to into consideration, Im presently minded to conclude that Assurant acted fairly in
blacklisting the handsets and making the demand of Miss M that she covers the original cost
of handset A.
Assurant responded to my provisional decision saying they had no further comments to 
make. In summary, Miss M responded with further comment about the potential role of the 
courier in the doorstep exchange. And she said there was another call before the call quoted 
in my provisional decision, in which she was told to leave the box unsealed so that she could 
show the phone to the saying courier driver. Miss M said that on two separate calls she was 
given conflicting information, so decided to trust the information given in the first call purely 
because the agent came across as more competent. Miss M reiterated her point that there was no evidence that it was her facial recognition that 
was used when handset A was exchanged for handset C and confirmed that she could not 
have done this as she no longer had handset A, having given it to the courier.
Miss M also questioned whether Assurants systems automatically update a replacement 
handsets details onto a policy holders account. And she explained that she may have called 
Assurant to insure a completely separate phone for her brother, since handset B had been 
blacklisted and he had no phone to use. She said she could see how this could potentially 
be misinterpreted as handset C, when in fact it was a completely separate handset which 
had nothing to do with this situation. 
In response to Miss Ms further comments, I asked Assurant for some further information 
about any additional calls that took place in January 2019 and about the details of handsets 
removed from or added to Miss Ms policy in April 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything afresh, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I know this 
confirmation will be very disappointing for Miss M. Again, Id like to stress that Ive 
considered all of the evidence, including her response to my provisional decision, carefully. 
So if I havent acknowledged or responded to a particular point, its not because I havent 
thought about it. Rather, Ive focused on the points that I consider to be central to my 
decision.
In response to my further enquiries, Assurant provided screenshot evidence and said there 
was only one call regarding the wrong handset having been sent to Miss M. Ive listened to 
the call recording and theres no reference to any prior call or prior notification. And when 
Miss M asks what to do about returning the phone, theres nothing to suggest shes 
previously been given different and conflicting information and is seeking clarification. This is 
the first time Miss M is made aware that a doorstep exchange will take place. And Assurant 
have shown in their records that no further calls were logged between this call and when 
handset B was sent out. Im satisfied this was the first and only call in which Miss M told 
Assurant theyd sent the wrong phone and talked to them about what would happen next. I 
think Miss M was given clear instructions about packaging up the phone securely and 
handing it over to the courier in its secured packaging. Those instructions made no reference 
to any requirement for verification from the courier. 
I appreciate Miss Ms concern about the reference to facial recognition being used in the 
exchange of handset A for handset C. In my provisional decision I made no finding in 
respect of whose facial recognition was used in the exchange. The significant point, which I 
find persuasive in raising questions about Miss Ms recollections, is that IMEI identification 
shows that handset C was later added to Miss Ms policy. 
When Miss M called Assurant in April 2019 to ask why handset B was blocked, she said 
shed removed it from her insurance the day before, intending to give it to her brother. 
Assurant have provided screenshots showing that handset C was added to the policy that 
same day. Miss C disputes this was her and has questioned whether Assurants systems 
automatically update details of a replacement handset onto a policy holders account. 
Although Assurant may automatically update details of new or exchanged handsets, I cannot 
see how this could explain what happened regarding handset C. The unique identification details of handset C would not have been known by Assurant when it was added to Miss Ms 
policy, as that handset had not come from them. Those unique identification details would 
only have been known by someone with direct access to handset C. In contrast, the details 
of handsets provided by Assurant in dealing with claims on the policy would be known. 
Indeed, Assurant confirmed to Miss M in the call where she told them the wrong model had 
been sent out, that the replacement handset (handset B) would be automatically covered. 
  
Overall, the inconsistencies surrounding the notification call and doorstep exchange, and the 
subsequent adding of handset C to Miss Ms policy, make it harder for me to rely on Miss 
Ms explanation of events. So to conclude, I dont think Assurant has treated Miss M unfairly 
and Im not going to ask them to do anything more. It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman