DRN-2446165
The complaint
Mr P complains that, during a phone call in September 2016, Police Mutual Assurance 
Society Limited (Police Mutual) did not explain that his stakeholder pension was opted-in to 
lifestyling. In particular, Mr P says that when he said he was thinking of changing his 
retirement date he was told this would not have any financial implications.
What happened
Mr P holds a stakeholder pension with Police Mutual. When Mr P took out this pension he 
was automatically opted-in to lifestyling.
In November 2014, Police Mutual wrote to Mr P. It said it was nearly five years before his 
selected retirement date. It explained that Mr Ps pension plan was opted-in to lifestyling. 
The letter said:
We are writing as your selected benefit date is just 5 years away.
As you applied for your plan after April 2005 you are automatically opted in to lifestyling.
Lifestyling aims to protect your plan as you draw closer to pension age, although there is no 
guarantee that the full value will be protected. Your payments are currently invested in the 
Stakeholder Pension Fund. If you are opted in to lifestyling your investment and future 
payments are gradually switched in to two lifestyling funds. 25% of your investment will be 
switched in to the Cash Fund and 75% switched in to the Fixed Interest Fund.
If you don't want your plan lifestyled your investment will remain in the Stakeholder Pension 
Fund until you are ready to claim it.
The annual statements Mr P received from 2015 onwards also set out that his pension pot 
was being lifestyled. The covering letter sent with the 2015 statement, dated May 2015 
explained:
Your plan is within five years of its benefit date, so we've applied 'lifestyling' - this means 
we're gradually switching the funds invested in the plan into our Fixed Interest Fund and 
Cash Fund to help maintain the amount your plan is worth as it comes to a close.
The statement also gave a breakdown showing how much of Mr Ps pension pot was 
invested in the Stakeholder Pension Fund, Fixed Interest Fund and Cash Fund.
In September 2016 Mr P phoned Police Mutual. During the call Mr P discussed increasing 
his pension contributions. He also briefly discussed his benefit date and asked if he could 
change it. The Police Mutual representative Mr P spoke to said he could leave his retirement 
age at age 60 for the time being and could change it later, if he wanted to. The 
representative explained that Police Mutual would write to Mr P about 5 months before his 
selected benefit date and Mr P could change his retirement age at that time if he wanted to.
Mr P asked the representative if changing his retirement age now would make a difference. 
The representative said it wouldnt, as long as Mr P wasnt coming up to his benefit date and 
hadnt received a letter from Police Mutual about taking his benefits. She explained that as 
Mr Ps benefit date was set for 2020, he had plenty of time to consider when he wanted to 
start taking his pension benefits.
In 2019 Mr P noted that his Police Mutual pension statement showed that his pension pot 
had only grown by 3% over the previous twelve months, but his wifes pension pot had 
grown by 7% despite them having made the same level of contributions. He queried this with 
Police Mutual.
It explained that as Mr P was approaching his selected retirement age and he was opted-in 
for lifestyling, his pension pot was gradually being switched from risk-based investments into 
lower risk investments. It said that as a lower proportion of the value of Mr Ps pension pot 
was invested in higher risk investments his pension pot was less exposed to the risk of 
falling in value, but this also meant there was less opportunity for investment growth.
It said it was likely that Mr Ps wifes pension pot had achieved a better return as she was 
more than five years from her selected retirement date, so lifestyling of her fund hadnt 
started, or she had opted out of lifestyling.
Mr P was not satisfied with Police Mutuals explanation and complained. He said that during 
the call he had with Police Mutual in September 2016 he wasnt made aware that his 
pension pot was being lifestyled and he was told that there werent any financial implications 
in moving his benefit date.
Police Mutual didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that having listened to the call from 
September 2016 it felt it was clear that its representative had only been referring to whether 
Mr P could change the date he wanted to start taking his pension benefits. It said it didnt 
think there was any reason for its representative to have referred to the lifestyling of Mr Ps 
pension pot, as no reference was made to it during the call.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Police Mutuals response and referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said he didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. 
He reiterated Police Mutuals explanation that the value of Mr Ps wifes pension pot would 
be different to Mr Ps, even if they had made the same contributions, unless the selected 
retirement dates were the same and they were both opted-in to lifestyling. 
He said he was satisfied that Police Mutual had kept Mr P informed about his funds value 
and the effect of lifestyling on his pension pot. He said that if Mr P hadnt wanted to have 
lifestyling applied to his pension pot he could have contacted Police Mutual to opt out. 
With regard to the call in September 2016 he said that as lifestyling wasnt mentioned during 
the call, he didnt think the Police Mutual representative had done anything wrong by not 
discussing how Mr Ps funds would be invested if he was less than five years from his 
selected retirement age.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. He said;
The fact that one is automatically opted into Lifestyling, and unless one opts out, then that's 
it, one is trapped into something that has a very negative affect on ones pension, and even 
if one has not clearly understood its implications and happens to query later, one is 
penalised if one does not enter the correct -password- like adding - lifestyling- to the word 
Pension. I'm sorry I cannot accept this as fair.I believe the very least Police Mutual should have done was to put me on to a person who 
could explain what having been -automatically opted in- meant. Combined with the very 
clear fact that I had queried about changing my retirement date (which by the way I did do 
eventually) this would have indeed made a difference to my pension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ps position and I have carefully considered the points he has made. 
Having done so, I dont think Police Mutual has done anything wrong or treated Mr P 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
I agree it would have been helpful if the representative Mr P spoke to in September 2016 
had mentioned that, as he was less than five years from his selected retirement date and he 
was opted-in for lifestyling, his pension pot was gradually being moved to lower risk funds.
But I must also take into account that Police Mutual wrote to Mr P in November 2014 to 
explain that he was opted-in to the lifestyling option and how lifestyling worked. If Mr P had 
any questions or concerns about whether lifestyling was right for his circumstances he was 
free to contact Police Mutual at that time.
Likewise, the annual statements Mr P received from 2015 onwards explained that his 
pension pot was gradually being moved to lower risk investments to reduce the risk of a 
sudden fall in its value if stock markets fell. And the statements set out how much of Mr Ps 
pension pot was being invested in its Stakeholder Pension Fund, Fixed Interest Fund and 
Cash Fund.
As this is the case, I cant reasonably say that Police Mutual didnt take adequate steps to 
explain that Mr Ps pension pot would gradually be moved to lower risk investments in the 
five years before his selected retirement date.
I have listened to the call Mr P had with Police Mutual in September 2016. (I note there was 
also a call in April 2015 but that call related to documents Mr P required.) It is not in dispute 
that there was no discussion about how Mr Ps pension pot was being invested during the 
call. I have carefully considered whether the representative Mr P spoke to should have told 
him that, as his benefit date was set for less than five years away, his pension pot was 
gradually being moved to lower risk funds. 
I dont think there was any intention, deliberate or otherwise, to mislead Mr P during the call. 
Like our investigator I think if Mr P had asked how his pension pot was being invested the 
representative would have explained that as Mr P was less than five years from his selected 
retirement date, and he was opted-in to lifestyling, his pension pot was gradually being 
moved to lower risk funds. But I dont think that Police Mutual acted incorrectly when its 
representative didnt refer to lifestyling in the brief conversation they had with Mr P about 
whether he could change his benefit date.
I note that in his response to our investigators view Mr P said; unless one opts out, then 
that's it, one is trapped into something that has a very negative affect on ones pension, and 
even if one has not clearly understood its implications and happens to query later, one is 
penalised if one does not enter the correct -password- like adding - lifestyling- to the word 
Pension.I dont think Mr P was trapped into lifestyling. I think Police Mutual made clear in its annual 
statements from 2015 onwards that Mr P could opt out of lifestyling at any time. For 
example, in the annual statement to 5 April 2015 it set out under the heading Your plan 
values;
We've applied lifestyling to your plan as you're now within five years of the age at which 
you've chosen to take benefits. This means we're gradually switching your fund and future 
contributions from the Stakeholder Pension Fund into the Fixed Interest Fund and the Cash 
Fund. We do this to reduce the amount by which your plan value can change as it nears its 
end. This illustration is based on your current holdings in the Stakeholder Pension Fund, 
Fixed Interest Fund and Cash Fund, but doesn't allow for the effect of future lifestyling. The 
funds are divided into units.
This unit price changes as the value of assets held in the fund changes. You can opt out of 
lifestyling at any time.
It might be helpful if I explain that the intention behind lifestyling is to help consumers lock in 
the investment growth their pension pot has achieved as they get closer to their retirement 
date. It is intended to help avoid large falls in the value of a customers pension pot that 
might otherwise result if stock markets fell, as happened last March and April as stock 
markets reacted to the news about the COVID-19 pandemic. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels he has lost out as a result of the lifestyling on his pension pot, 
but it is designed to reduce the risk of a pension saver being caught out by a sudden drop in 
the value of their investments shortly before they are due to retire. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr P was hoping for. But having very carefully 
considered this matter, I think Police Mutual took adequate steps to make Mr P aware that 
his pension pot was opted-in to lifestyling. It wrote to him in 2014 explaining this before it 
started moving his pension pot to lower risk investments. And the annual statements it sent 
to Mr P from 2015 onwards also explained that he was opted-in for lifestyling.
If Mr P had any queries about how lifestyling worked or whether it was right for his 
circumstances he was free to query this with Police Mutual and to opt-out if he didnt want 
his pension pot to be gradually moved to lower risk investments.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman