DRN-2824283
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to resolve a plumbing problem through 
his home emergency insurance policy. Where I refer to Aviva this includes its agents and 
claim handlers.
What happened
Mr S had a home emergency policy provided by Aviva for his plumbing and drainage. When 
a drainage pipe connected to a sink became blocked he reported the problem to Aviva. But 
Avivas engineer couldnt remove the blockage. The engineer said the pipes were badly 
installed and Mr S needed to have them fixed before he could do anything else. Mr S 
complained to Aviva and it refunded his £30 excess but not the premiums hed already paid 
 even though itd been unable to resolve the problem. He wants the drain unblocking or 
connecting to another outlet, which Mr S says would be the easiest solution.
Aviva said it was sorry Mr S was unhappy with the service hed received. Its engineer had 
diagnosed poor plumbing as the cause of the blockage. Remedial work was required and 
that wasnt covered by the policy. So Aviva had refunded the excess Mrs S had paid towards 
the claim.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see the policy excluded systems that had been 
poorly installed or maintained. And our investigator hadnt seen anything to suggest the 
engineers report was incorrect. So he felt Aviva had acted fairly by relying on the opinion of 
its expert engineer that it was unable to complete the repairs to the blocked pipe until the 
remedial works had been completed.
Our investigator felt Aviva had acted correctly by refunding the £30 policy excess as it hadnt 
been able to carry out any work. But he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt feel the engineer had spent very long trying to unblock the 
drainage pipe. And hed just blamed the connections because he couldnt unblock it. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr S has been experiencing. He contacted Aviva when a 
drainage pipe to his sink became blocked. But Aviva was unable to fix the problem. And it 
says it cant do any more until Mr S carries out some remedial work. So Ive considered 
whether Aviva acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the home emergency 
policy. 
Mr Ss policy provides cover for his homes plumbing, drainage and water supply pipe. It 
covers repairs of leaks and blockages within the plumbing and drainage system. 
But Mr S said the engineer didnt try to unblock the pipe for very long. When Mr S suggested 
the pipe could be connected to a different section the engineer spoke to his office and said 
the system wasnt installed correctly. And Mr S was told hed have to carry out some 
remedial work to correct the pipe work before the engineer could do anything else. 
I know Mr S feels the engineer only said itd been installed incorrectly because he wasnt 
able to fix the problem at the time. He said the pipe had been unblocked successfully a few 
years earlier. So I can understand his frustration. And Mr S felt the engineer could work 
around the problem by re-connecting the pipe elsewhere. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to rely on the opinion of its expert engineer 
that the pipe work hadnt been installed correctly  even if itd been unblocked previously. 
The engineer felt he wasnt able to carry out the necessary changes as remedial work is 
excluded by the home emergency policy.
In the general exclusions section of the home emergency policy it excludes 
systems/equipment/ appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained 
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions; or that are 
subject to a manufacturers recall. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. He feels the engineer couldve done 
more to work around the problem. But based on everything Ive seen I cant say Aviva acted 
unfairly in accepting the diagnosis of its engineer and declining the claim under the general 
exclusions clause. 
As it wasnt able to carry out the repairs under the terms of the policy Aviva refunded the 
£30 excess to Mr S. And I think thats the right thing to do in the circumstances. But I wont 
be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman