DRN-2136744
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs G complain about the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has 
offered them for a storm claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017, Mr A and Mrs Gs home was damaged internally by a storm and they made a claim 
on their home insurance policy. The claim was turned down and Mr A and Mrs G brought a 
complaint to us. Another ombudsman considered their complaint and directed Lloyds to 
settle the internal damage claim.
Mr A and Mrs G got a couple of estimates for the costs of getting the repairs done and sent 
them to Lloyds. Both estimates were over £5000. Given the reasonably high costs of getting 
the bedroom repaired, Lloyds asked for a detailed breakdown of the costs from the 
contractors. It also asked one of its own contractors to visit Mr A and Mrs Gs home and 
draw up a scope of works.
Lloyds contractor estimated the works would cost it around £1464 to carry out. Lloyds 
thought the contractors scope of works matched the necessary works set out in Mr A and 
Mrs Gs contractors cost breakdown. So it offered Mr A and Mrs G the choice between its 
own contractor carrying out the repairs or paying them a cash settlement equal to what it 
would cost for its contractor to do the works, less the policy excess. It also offered to include 
furniture storage costs while the works were being done.
Mr A and Mrs G werent happy with Lloyds offer. They said theyd been to get a couple of 
estimates and this was what theyd done. Lloyds cash settlement wasnt enough for them to 
be in a position to get the repairs done. And they didnt want its contractor to do the work, as 
the relationship between them and Lloyds had broken down. They asked us to look into this 
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator thought Lloyds offer was fair. He thought Lloyds contractors 
scope of works was much the same as Mr A and Mrs Gs contractors. So he thought Lloyds 
could put Mr A and Mrs G in the position theyd been before the damage happened. He 
understood why Mr A and Mrs G wanted to use their own contractor. But given Lloyds was 
able to get the works done by its own contractor, he thought it was fair for it to limit any cash 
settlement to its own contractors costs. 
Mr A and Mrs G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. They said the previous ombudsman had suggested they get quotes for repair. 
Lloyds offer was only around 25% of their own contractors costs. This claim had gone on 
for far too long and the £50 compensation Lloyds had offered them earlier on during the life 
of this complaint wasnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and Mrs G, I think Lloyds offer of 
settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
First, I need to explain that within this decision, Im only looking at how Lloyds proposes to 
settle this claim. I wont be commenting on anything that was looked at previously by my 
colleague. That includes Lloyds handling of the claim at that point. I have read that decision 
though and Ive noted that the ombudsman directed Lloyds to settle the internal damage 
claim.  She didnt award a specific amount or tell Lloyds how it must calculate the settlement. 
She also didnt order Lloyds to pay the full amount of any quotations Mr A and Mrs G 
obtained. Im satisfied that by offering to either carry out the repairs itself or pay a cash 
settlement so they can be carried out by Mr A and Mrs Gs preferred contractor; it has 
complied with the ombudsmans direction.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and whether I think Lloyds has applied them fairly 
and reasonably. The policy explains how Lloyds settles buildings claims. It says:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged 
(using a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more than the cost of 
completely rebuilding it in its original form.
We have the option of giving you a money payment instead of repairing or rebuilding your
home. We will either:
-Pay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear and tear or;
-Pay the difference between the open market sale value of your home prior to the 
damage and its open market sale value after the damage.
To fairly settle this claim, Lloyds needs to put Mr A and Mrs G in the same position they were 
in before the storm damage happened. So it either needs to make sure its contractors carry 
out effective repairs, or if theyre unable to do so, to pay a cash settlement that will allow Mr 
A and Mrs G to engage contractors to get the works done.
In this case, Lloyds contractor is able to carry out the repairs needed to Mr A and Mrs Gs 
home to put them in the position they were in before they made the claim. Ive looked closely 
at its contractors scope of works and Mr A and Mrs Gs contractors detailed breakdown and 
Im satisfied theyre broadly the same. The details of the works, materials and necessary 
labour are much the same and I can see Lloyds has agreed to include furniture storage 
costs too. So I think Lloyds is able to effectively complete the repairs and fulfil its obligations 
under the policy terms.
I can understand though, given Lloyds initial handling of their storm claim, why Mr A and 
Mrs G might not want its contractor to carry out the repairs. So I think offering Mr A and Mrs 
G a cash settlement so they can organise for their own contractor to carry out the works is a 
reasonable and appropriate response. 
But I dont think it would be fair to direct Lloyds to pay more as a cash settlement than it 
would cost its own contractor to carry out the repairs. Insurers are often able to make use of 
supplier discounts, which arent always available to retail customers. This is likely the reason 
for the difference in price between Lloyds contractors quote and Mr A and Mrs Gs 
contractors estimates. 
Its Mr A and Mrs Gs choice to get their own contractor to do the works rather than use 
Lloyds contractor, even though Lloyds is in a position to organise effective repairs. Directing 
Lloyds to pay their contractors estimates would mean the repairs would cost Lloyds 
considerably more to get the works done than it would for their own contractor to do so. And 
I dont think this would be a fair and reasonable outcome. I think the fair outcome here is for Lloyds to settle the claim in line with what it would cost its own contractor to carry out the 
repairs (less the policy excess) or for its contractors to carry out the repairs. Its open to Mr A 
and Mrs G to let Lloyds know how they want to proceed.
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs G feel further compensation should be paid for their distress and 
inconvenience. Lloyds paid them £50 for lack of clarity about the detail it needed in the 
contractors breakdown. I think this was reasonable. But overall, while Im aware this claim 
has been going on for a long time now and I appreciate Mr A and Mrs G are very frustrated, I 
do think Lloyds has sought to settle the claim fairly. And it included storage costs in its offer, 
which strictly arent covered by the policy. So Im not telling Lloyds to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Lloyds offer is fair. So I dont 
uphold Mr A and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman