DRN-1280315
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit
card. Mr C says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Due to the length of time thats passed, neither party has any evidence from the point of sale
to show when or how the PPI was sold. So, Ive had to rely on what both parties have told us 
in order to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.
Mr C says he doesnt know when the PPI was taken out, and he says he was completely 
unaware it was added to his account. Halifax says it doesnt know when exactly the PPI
was sold, but it has provided a credit card statement from November 1996 showing PPI 
present on Mr Cs account. Ive seen statements from earlier in 1996 and some from the 
year preceding 1996 - and PPI is not listed in these statements. Ive also seen Mr Cs credit 
card application form and I can see that Mr C did not opt to take out PPI at the start of this 
agreement. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely the PPI was sold to Mr C 
sometime around November 1996.   
Mr C maintains that he never gave his consent to have the PPI added to his account and he 
was completely unaware of it until recently when looking back at old statements.  
Halifax says it wouldve explained the optional nature to Mr C and it wouldve only added the 
policy to his account with his explicit consent. And I think thats probably correct. I say this 
because Ive considered what weve seen of how Halifax was selling PPI in branch, on the 
telephone, over the internet and via post from 1995 to 1997. And from what weve seen in 
the past, there is nothing to suggest that the PPI wouldnt have been presented as optional 
or that it wouldve been added without the applicants consent.
So even though I havent seen any documents from when Mr C was sold PPI and I dont
know how the policy was sold to him, Ive considered what we already know about how
Halifax conducted its sales around the time, and in the absence of any persuasive evidence
to the contrary, Im not persuaded that the policy wasnt presented as optional. And I think
its more likely than not that Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI
and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Mr C cant remember if Halifax recommended the PPI to him. Halifax doesnt know if it
recommended the policy either - but its willing to treat this as a recommended sale. As 
things stand there isnt enough information to determine this point. But being able to do so 
isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Halifax recommended the policy, I think it wouldve
been a suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set out below. As a result,
Ive considered the complaint as an advised sale.
As an advised sale Halifax wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for Mr C  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances from around 1996, I think that it was. So, I 
dont think he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for it. Following the adjudicators initial assessment Mr C hasnt 
responded to say that his circumstances changed significantly around November 1996  
such that the policy wouldve been unsuitable for him anytime during this period. And Ive not 
seen anything else to suggest that the policy wasnt suitable for him at any point leading up 
to November 1996.
Mr C says he wouldve been entitled to three months worth of sick pay from his employer 
and had about £1,000 of savings. But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out 
10% of his outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months, on top of his sick pay 
entitlement and his savings. So, having the policy in place meant he wouldve been free to 
use these funds for other expenses. And Ive not seen that Mr C had any means to pay his 
credit card long term had he been made redundant. So, I think the policy was suitable for 
him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the policy wouldve put 
him off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman