DRN-2904807
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality. Hes represented in this complaint by a 
member of his family. But for ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr R.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the time the car was under seven years old and had travelled 36,600 miles.
The agreement was for £2,000: with 35 monthly payments of £74, and a final payment of 
£233.
Mr R said that in November 2019, five months and 10,000 miles later, the cars engine 
seized.
Mr R attempted to have the problem fixed under the extended warranty product hed 
purchased. In March 2020, the warranty provider told Mr R that their engineer had 
identified the issue as a worn oil pump drive chain and the repair cost wasnt covered 
under the terms of the warranty.
In December 2019, the garage the car had been recovered to carried out a diagnostic 
report. They said:
The cause of the fault has been determined to be as follows. The oil pump drive 
sprocket has failed causing a lack of oil pressure. This is apparent with the fine 
grey sludge that was found in the engine sump (We have kept the oil for reference 
purposes). There is significant wear to the actual engine block and thrust bearings. 
There is significant crank shaft end float. (please see the pictures and refer to the 
video supplied). This is a common problem with the N20 engine.
The warranty provider arranged an independent inspection of the car. This was carried out 
on 27 January 2020. This report found that:
This engine has suffered from multiple bearing failure due to metal debris entering 
the lubrication system and being passed around all oil feed components on this 
engine.
Metal debris has come from the heavily worn oil pump sprocket and this has been 
caused, in my opinion by the oil pump chain stretching and chattering on the oil 
pump sprocket, which has caused the sprocket to wear and debris to enter the 
lubrication system causing the observed damage.
It is unlikely that the driver would have been aware of this fault developing and I 
suspect it would have been developing for a considerable period of time.
Mr R commissioned his own report  this was carried out by an independent engineer on 
16 July 2020. This report was based on his analysis of the supplying dealers diagnostic 
report, and the independent report commissioned by the warranty provider.
This report concluded that:
The likely hood of a chain of this size and design stretching to the extent of 
causing such damage to the sprocket is almost impossible under normal operating 
conditions, and if it did it would be clearly visible, and unless an outside force 
caused the chain to stretch it would certainly not be an occurrence that would 
happen at this age/mileage. Even for engines with three or four times the 
mileage/use it would be unusually to see such wear and certainly not at the end of 
its life, in reality it
is a component that should last the life of the vehicle.
the initial failure was not due to a stretched oil pump drive chain but to a failure of 
the oil pump sprocket, which is neither a serviceable item or a causal part at its 
end of life.
In February 2021 Mr R complained to MotoNovo, and provided them with the two 
independent reports that had been commissioned by him and by the warranty provider. 
MotoNovo then commissioned its own independent inspection of Mr Rs car.
The report commissioned by MotoNovo was carried out on 31 March 2021. That report 
concluded:
We would conclude we suspect wear and deterioration of the oil pump or low oil 
level has resulted in the consequential damage to the engine components. This 
would not have been present or developing at the point of sale.
The defect/s reported are considered a maintenance repair on a vehicle. This type 
of
defect can present at any mileage due to operating conditions, usage and basically 
are ageing related defects or even is some instances deterioration due to operator 
interaction. They are repairs to keep the vehicle in use and serviceable, these 
repairs are often required just as servicing type maintenance. If the fault had been 
present at hire it would have materialised in the first 500 -1000 miles of use.
The report also confirmed the car would need a replacement engine.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said theyd considered all of the 
information provided, and found that none of the reports showed that the faults were 
present or developing at the point of sale.
Mr R wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he referred his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt think the goods were of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
They felt that having reviewed all of the reports, it was clear to them that the oil pump 
sprocket has failed prematurely and not due to wear and tear. They didnt think this 
should have happened on a car of this mileage. 
MotoNovo disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Id like to assure both parties that Ive read all of the information 
theyve provided. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe 
its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr R to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr R took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
The first report we have is dated 5 December 2019  so Im satisfied the faults appeared 
within the first six months.
That report identified the fault was with the oil pump drive socket. This caused low oil 
pressure. It also says there was significant wear to the engine block and thrust bearings. 
As the fault was significant after less than six months, I think its more likely than not that 
this was present at the point of sale.
The second report, in January 2019, also identified the issue with the oil pump sprocket. 
This report said that it had worn excessively. The report says this caused metal debris to 
enter the lubrication system which has led to the engine seizing. It also says this wouldve 
been developing for a considerable amount of time.
The fourth report, from March 2021, also identified wear of the oil pump as the problem. It 
said this led to a lack of oil pressure, which led to the damage to the engine. This finding 
is in line with the other reports. Where it differs from the others is where it states that this 
fault would not have been present or developing at the point of sale.
Ive considered these reports carefully, and I think its more likely than not that the fault 
was developing at the point of sale. This is because the reports identify the issue as 
significant and excessive. I dont think its reasonable to expect such a level of wear to 
happen in just five months, even if the mileage travelled was 10,000 in that period.
All of the reports confirm the car is a non-runner and required a replacement engine. And 
none of them suggest Mr R has mis-used the car or not taken reasonable care of it. I 
dont think any reasonable person would expect a cars engine to fail after less than 
50,000 miles. So I dont think the engine was sufficiently durable. And this made the car 
not of satisfactory quality when supplied.Mr R commissioned his own report. This report stated that the affected parts should last the 
life of the vehicle, and theyre not serviceable parts. It also stated that the manufacturer had 
not put a life span on the parts, or that theyd require replacement due to wear. Im aware 
that this report is based on an analysis of the other reports and that a physical inspection of 
the car wasnt done. But I find this report persuasive, and it adds weight to my view that the 
engine wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Putting things right
As Im satisfied the car was not of a satisfactory quality, its reasonable to ask MotoNovo to 
put this right. The CRA gives MotoNovo the right to repair the fault. But in this case, the 
evidence suggests the cost of the repairs is more than the value of the car. So I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to ask MotoNovo to arrange for a repair.
MotoNovo should allow Mr R to reject the car  meaning that they end the agreement with 
nothing further to pay, collect the car at no further cost to him, refund the deposit he paid, 
and pay any storage costs hes incurred.
Mr R hasnt used the car since November 2019 because it was undrivable, so its fair 
that MotoNovo refund the monthly payments hes paid from November 2019 to the date 
of settlement.
Mr R had use of the car before the engine seized so Im not requiring MotoNovo to 
refund the payments made before this point. 
I also think its reasonable that MotoNovo refund Mr R for the costs of the 
diagnostic reports hes had done.
MotoNovo should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr R, and settle the storage costs after Mr R has 
provided receipts;
refund Mr Rs deposit contribution of £6,743, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement ;
refund Mr R all rentals for the period from 4 November 2019 to the date of 
settlement, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement ;
refund Mr R for the cost of diagnostic reports, plus 8% simple yearly interest from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
the agreement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman