DRN-3051198
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr S believed he had arranged a temporary repayment plan with RBS to enable him to clear 
the arrears on his RBS credit account and bring the account up to date. Mr S was therefore 
surprised to later discover that RBS had defaulted his account and reported it as such to the 
credit reference agencies, especially as he had received a letter from RBS in the recent past 
which explained that he wouldnt be charged any interest on his account for the next six 
months. As a result, Mr S raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mr Ss complaint. They noted that they had sent Mr S the correct letters 
which had advised him that his account may be defaulted if he didnt make necessary 
payments to bring the account back into line, and that Mr S hadnt made the necessary 
payments. Because of this, RBS felt that the default had been applied to Mr Ss account 
correctly and they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ss complaint. However, RBS did 
acknowledge that they hadnt contacted Mr S when they had said they would to discuss his 
account arrears with him, and they made a payment of £50 to Mr S to compensate him for 
this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that RBS had applied the 
default correctly, and they noted that the letter regarding the six-months interest free period 
to which Mr S referred wasnt in connection to an agreed payment plan but rather was in 
reference to a separate matter on the account. As such, our investigator didnt recommend 
that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ss favour.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr S to have discovered that RBS had 
defaulted his account when he was of the understanding that there was a payment plan in 
place which should have mitigated against such a possibility.
Mr S has stated that his understanding that there was a payment plan in place was as a 
result of a telephone conversation with an RBS agent he had in mid-December 2019 and 
which was confirmed by a letter from RBS received the following month and which advised 
him that he wouldnt be charged any interest on his account for the next six months.
RBS have no record of a conversation where an RBS agent arranged a temporary payment 
plan with Mr S at or around the time that Mr S refers to. However, RBS have been able to 
demonstrate that a Default Notice was sent to Mr S on 16 December 2019 which advised Mr 
S that his account may be defaulted if he didnt clear the arrears on his account, which at 
that time were approximately £210.
RBSs system notes also record a telephone conversation between Mr S and themselves on 
2 January 2020, during which it was confirmed verbally to Mr S that there wasnt a payment 
plan in place on his account and that approximately £210 needed to be paid against the 
account  in line with Default Notice sent to Mr S the previous month.   
RBSs notes also confirm that Mr S advised that he would call back the following day and 
make a partial payment of £126 towards the account  although there is no record of Mr S 
subsequently calling RBS back and making that payment  and so Im satisfied that Mr S 
was made aware verbally by RBS at the start of January 2020 that there wasnt a payment 
plan in place on his account and that a specific amount needed to be paid in order to avoid 
the possibility of his account being defaulted in the near future. 
Furthermore, given that this conversation between Mr S and RBS took place in early 
January 2020, Im satisfied that the information that Mr S was given by RBS at that time 
superseded any information that Mr S may have received previously from RBS, including the 
content of the conversation that Mr S has stated he held with RBS in mid-December 2019.
Mr S has also referred to a letter that he received in January 2020 which advised him that he 
wouldnt incur any interest on his account for the next six months and which Mr S advises 
that he took as confirmation of the payment plan he believed he had previously arranged 
with RBS.
But having reviewed the letter to which Mr S refers, its notable that the letter doesnt include 
any reference to an agreed payment plan but rather that it refers to a separate matter. 
Specifically, the letter explains that RBS have reviewed Mr Ss account and noticed that his 
recent account repayments have been relatively low in relation to the overall balance 
outstanding on his account, and this meant that Mr S had recently paid more in interest and 
charges that he had against the capital amount borrowed on the account. 
RBS also acknowledge in the letter that they should have written to Mr S sooner about this 
matter, and confirm that because of this, and to support Mr S in reducing the outstanding 
balance on the account, that they would be charging no interest on Mr Ss account for the 
next six months.  
This aspect of the letter might be why Mr S believed that the letter referred to a six month 
payment plan, but importantly, RBS go on to recommend in the letter that, even though no 
interest would be charged during the six-month period, Mr S should maintain at least the 
level of payments he had been making previously in order for the capital balance 
outstanding on the account to be reduced. And, as mentioned previously, nowhere in this 
letter is there any mention of an agreed payment plan being in place on the account.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S in how theyve managed his account here, including how RBS 
eventually defaulted Mr Ss account and reported it as such to the credit reference agencies. 
And I say this because Im satisfied that RBS did inform Mr S that his belief that the account 
was in a repayment plan was incorrect and that a specific amount needed to be paid against 
the account to avoid the possibility of the account defaulting  a payment which Mr S 
ultimately didnt make. 
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing RBS to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting here, but I trust that hell understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman