DRN-3492825
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly 
declined his applications for a new account, which in turn meant he couldnt apply to the 
bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr D was an existing personal customer of NatWest and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan to support two of his businesses.
NatWest required customers without a business account to obtain a business feeder 
account before it would consider an application for a Bounce Back Loan. The account would 
then be used to draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme.
So Mr D applied to NatWest for a feeder account for each of the two businesses for which he 
was seeking a loan, one on 18 February 2021 and the other on 1 March. NatWest declined 
the applications, on 26 March and 29 March respectively. The Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
closed to new applications on 31 March.
When Mr D complained about NatWests decision to decline the applications, the bank said 
that it hadnt received acceptable evidence confirming that either of his businesses had been 
trading prior to 1 March 2020 as required by the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria. 
Separately, it offered Mr D compensation of £150 in recognition of the fact that the service 
hed received hadnt been as good as it shouldve been.
Mr D remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that each of his businesses 
was eligible and thought hed provided NatWest with sufficient evidence of this, which had 
included a copy his tax return. He also said that NatWest had approved an earlier Bounce 
Back Loan application from him without requesting such evidence. And he said that the 
timing of the banks decision had left him unable to access the government-backed support 
that he needed.
NatWest subsequently revised its offer of compensation to £250, but stood by its decision to 
decline Mr Ds account applications. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part. She didnt think that NatWest had done anything wrong in declining Mr Ds account 
applications on the basis that it wasnt satisfied of his eligibility for the Bounce Back Loans 
that he was seeking. Having reviewed the evidence that Mr D provided to NatWest, she 
noted that one of his businesses wasnt supported by a tax return and, more broadly, that 
Mr Ds personal account activity didnt evidence the level of turnover hed declared. But she 
thought the bank had taken too long to reach its decision and recommended that NatWest 
increase its offer of compensation to £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
NatWest accepted our investigators view, but Mr D didnt. He still didnt think that the bank 
had legitimate grounds to decline his applications and said there was no requirement under 
the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme to evidence the businesss turnover. 
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest required customers who didnt have a business relationship to open a feeder 
account before it would consider an application from them for a Bounce Back Loan. It was 
entitled to do so under the rules of Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
It is worth highlighting that NatWest was only deciding whether or not it was willing to provide 
Mr D with one of its accounts  and was entitled, under the rules of the Loan Scheme to 
follow its usual processes and apply its own criteria when doing so.
NatWest has explained that it declined each of Mr Ds account applications as it didnt think 
that the trading activity or turnover had been sufficiently evidenced for either. I think those 
requirements were reasonable given the banks Know Your Customer and anti-money 
laundering requirements under law and regulation, and its similar obligations under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme for which the accounts were needed to access. And I think the 
conclusions NatWest reached were reasonable too, because:
Only one of the two businesses for which Mr D was seeking a loan was contained 
within the tax return he provided. There was very little evidence to show that the 
other existed or  if it did  when it had started trading.
NatWest couldnt verify the trading activity or turnover for either of the two 
businesses from the transactions running through the personal account that Mr D 
held with the bank. Having reviewed the statements, there are few identifiable 
business-related transactions and these dont support the level of turnover that Mr D 
declared (and wouldve needed to support the loan amount he was seeking).
I know Mr D doesnt think that NatWest was required or entitled to review things in the depth 
that it did, but as set out above I think it had the discretion to do so. The fact that an earlier 
application wasnt subject to the same checks doesnt lead me to think that it did anything 
wrong in how it handled the applications at issue here. Banks can change their processes 
and requirements and I dont think the ones that NatWest applied here were illegitimate or 
unreasonable for the reasons noted above. 
Mr D is also unhappy with how long NatWest took to process the applications. Hes 
concerned that the bank purposefully delayed them, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
was the case. One took five weeks, the other closer to six. I dont think those timeframes 
were particularly excessive, given the volume of applications that NatWest wouldve been 
dealing with at the time and in view of the banks reasonable requests for further information 
along the way. The bank has accepted that it couldve handled things more quickly than it 
did and offered to pay Mr D a total of £350. I think this is fair compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience he was caused by the relatively minor delays in progressing his 
applications.  
The timing of NatWests decisions meant that there was only a short time for Mr D to apply 
elsewhere  given that he only had the banks answer to his applications a few days prior to the closure of the Loan Scheme on 31 March 2021. But time was always going to be tight 
given the date that Mr D submitted the applications. And there was still a short window within 
which he couldve applied to an alternative lender. So I dont think its fair to hold NatWest 
responsible for Mr D being unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere.
Taking all of the above into account, I think NatWests revised offer of £350 compensation is 
a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr D £350 (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman