DRN-1591342
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Alliance and Leicester, but Ill just refer 
to Santander from now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2005 alongside a mortgage to 
protect Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage monthly repayments. 
The policy covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs P mainly said that the policy was sold to them on the basis that when either of 
them made a claim they would receive the full benefit amount payable under the policy and 
not just a half share. They also told us that PPI wasnt needed as they both had secure jobs 
with good sickness benefits. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
There are incomplete paper records for this sale. Ive seen nothing signed by Mr and Mrs P 
which shows how they applied for the PPI. But as this sale happened a long time ago, 
I wouldnt  reasonably expect Santander or Mr and Mrs P still to have all the paperwork. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs P arranged their mortgage and 
took out the PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs P to recall in detail 
precisely what was said at the time. 
I must look at all the available information and take into account the wider circumstances 
when deciding what I think is most likely. 
Mr and Mrs P told us theyd taken out the PPI during a meeting. And I've seen some meeting 
notes from Santander that suggest the option of having PPI was something Mr and Mrs P 
talked about with the lender. So I think thats probably what happened. 
In order to have the PPI, Mr and Mrs P had to complete a separate application form. And it 
looks like they mustve decided they wanted accident, sickness and unemployment cover after speaking with the advisor. I say this because Santander sent Mr and Mrs P some 
information about their mortgage in a KeyFacts document which also included information 
about their insurance. This makes it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out any 
insurance through the lender. And that they had chosen to have optional Mortgage 
PaymentCover (this was what the lender called its PPI).
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs P say about the benefit split and the way the 
insurance was sold to them. But what theyve told me isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. Santander has sent me a record of a mortgage financial 
review meeting at an Alliance and Leicester branch when Mr and Mrs P discussed how they 
would be able to keep paying their mortgage if one or both of them couldnt work. Its noted 
down on that form that they would struggle to maintain and could not rely on spouse to 
maintain on sole income. And Mr and Mrs P have signed that form at the end. 
So I think Mr and Mrs P were happy that this note reflected their position at the time and its 
probably a reasonable record of what was discussed in that meeting. 
Santander also wrote to Mr and Mrs P shortly afterwards setting out details of the cover 
theyd chosen showing that both of them were each covered for 50% of the monthly benefit 
amount. Mr and Mrs P couldve queried the way the PPI benefit was shared between them if 
this wasnt something they wanted. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that 
happened.
Given their concerns about not being able to pay the mortgage if one of them wasnt able to 
work, and bearing in mind that the mortgage was taken out based on both their incomes, 
I think the benefit split seems reasonable. And as far as I can see it reflected Mr and Mrs Ps 
wishes at the time for the policy to protect them in the event either of them couldn't work. 
Splitting the policy benefit gave Mr and Mrs P the peace of mind of knowing that if one of 
them wasnt working, the policy would pay out half the benefit amount  so broadly speaking, 
in those circumstances it would help plug the gap left in their joint finances by that person 
not being able to work (which is what it seems they told the lender they were worried about). 
And in the unfortunate event of Mr and Mrs P both needing to claim at the same time, then 
the full benefit was payable. 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial 
number of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they mightve felt this 
policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P wanted to have the benefits and 
security that having PPI offered them, and it was set up in accordance with their wishes and 
added to their mortgage account when Mr and Mrs P chose to buy it. 
Santander recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied. 
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim and Mr and Mrs P couldve made 
repeated claims. So the policy wouldve provided long term cover for the mortgage.  
I've taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps sick pay entitlement. But the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of their work benefits, providing additional financial security in these circumstances, 
and in full for longer than they couldve relied on their sick pay through work. I think this could've been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time, bearing in mind 
that they wouldve both only been on half pay after being off work for 6 months and they 
mightve faced extra costs as a result of illness or disability.  
Mr and Mrs P said they had no other way of making the monthly repayments if they werent 
in paid work.  
So I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P looking at their circumstances.
Its possible some of the information Mr and Mrs P were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
that affected Mr and Mrs P. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs P at the time they bought the 
policy. But I can see that the insurer wrote to them soon afterwards with details of the benefit 
theyd taken out and confirming the monthly premium. So they could see what they would 
have to pay to have this PPI and the policy appears to have been affordable. As they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their situation changed 
or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs P still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Ps particular situation. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a result of anything that Santander 
did wrong. So Santander doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint by Mr and Mrs P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman