DRN-1420358
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK shared her personal 
financial information with her former partner, causing her embarrassment and financial loss.
What happened
Miss B said that she visited a branch of Halifax to pay some money into her account. She 
was with her ex-partner, who isnt a joint account holder. Miss B said she asked about 
overdraft fees on her account, and the member of staff turned the screen with her bank 
details towards her partner. She told us the staff member began discussing her account with 
her former partner. She said she asked twice for this to stop, but it didnt, and she had to 
leave the branch to end the conversation. 
Miss B said this was a breach of her personal data. She told us it had caused problems with 
her ex-partner. Hed stopped paying child support, and she had to make payments towards 
his debts. Miss B also said shed complained to Halifax about this at the time and waited for 
it to respond, but it didnt do anything until she complained again later.
Halifax accepted responsibility for not dealing with Miss Bs complaint promptly. And it said 
because of the length of time that had passed, the relevant staff member could no longer 
remember the incident. It said it takes data privacy very seriously, and it shouldnt have 
divulged any of her personal or account information to anyone without her permission. 
Halifax also noted that Miss B had said she was having financial difficulties. It said if it had 
dealt with her complaint at the time it was made, it wouldve offered her support with this. So 
it refunded all overdraft fees from 22 May 2019, when she initially made her complaint, to 
October, and waived any further fees until November 2019. The refund was £474.78. Halifax 
also paid £500 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Halifax has 
apologised for the breach in Miss Bs data and the delay in responding to her complaint. And 
it had paid a refund and compensation. 
Our investigator explained that our service isnt here to decide if data protection laws have 
been broken. Rather, we investigate whether a business has acted unreasonably or unfairly, 
and if it has, we consider what has to be done to put things right. 
Our investigator appreciated that this issue was very important to Miss B. But she didnt think 
Miss B had lost out financially because of this, and she thought that Halifaxs offer was in 
line with the level of compensation that our service would normally award in a case like this. 
So she didnt think Halifax had to do any more. 
Our investigator noted Miss B said shed been struggling financially. Halifax has offered help 
with that, and our investigator said Miss B might consider taking up that offer. Miss B disagreed. She said Halifax took 22 weeks to contact her about her complaint. And 
she said the branch itself had taken no responsibility. Her details were given to her former 
partner even though shed asked Halifax to stop twice. Shed had to walk out to get this to 
stop. She said shed lost trust in Halifax. She wanted this issue to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, and sent to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Our service has since explained to Miss B that we cant usually decide a complaint which is 
also being considered by the ICO. Miss B has decided to pursue a complaint with our 
service rather than with the ICO. This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has said this incident has caused difficulty between her former partner and her, and 
that shes lost out on payments she expected to receive. Additionally, shes felt obliged to 
make payments towards her former partners debts. She said this happened because Halifax 
shared her personal data.
As our investigator explained, this service isnt the expert body on data protection. We dont 
reach a formal view on whether data protection rules have been breached, or take action 
against businesses to make sure such breaches dont happen again in future. What we do is 
to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint, and assess whether a business has 
acted fairly. If the business has been unfair or unreasonable, we look at what is required to 
put things right. And as part of that, we consider what a business has already done. 
Id like to acknowledge that what Miss B told us about is an embarrassing and unnecessary 
incident, which shared private information with someone who should not have seen that. But 
I also need to acknowledge that Halifax has accepted it made a mistake. Theres no dispute 
about that. So I need to think about whether what Halifax has done provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Miss B doesnt think Halifax has done enough. But it paid Miss B £500 in compensation. It 
refunded £478.78. And it waived a further month of overdraft fees. In total, that means 
Halifax has paid what our service would term a substantial award. I think that demonstrates 
that Halifax has taken this issue seriously. 
Miss B has told us about the wider implications of this mistake. I think its foreseeable that 
any sharing of Miss Bs personal financial information with her former partner could lead to 
difficulties between them. So Ive taken that into account in reaching my decision. 
But I dont think that Halifax couldve known that Miss B would pay some of her former 
partners debts as a result of this mistake. I dont think that was a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of what happened. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax 
also to pay Miss B back what she told us shed spent on her former partner. 
I know that Miss B wont agree with me, but I think that what Halifax has done already 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I dont think it has to pay her more 
compensation. And, for that reason, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman