DRN-4182681
The complaint
Mr K complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE rejected a claim on his mobile phone 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his policy after his mobile phone was stolen. Great Lakes asked him 
to provide evidence in support of his claim, including proof of his identity and proof that his 
phone had been blocked by the network provider. 
After considering the evidence Mr K provided, Great Lakes rejected the claim, saying we 
can only consider this a deliberate attempt to defraud your policy by attempting to make a 
claim on a device by providing fabricated documentation. Therefore, your policy has been 
cancelled with immediate effect under the following policy term:
Fraud
Mr K complained but Great Lakes didnt change its decision. It said: 
The proof of blacklisting document Mr K provided had been modified. 
It had asked him to provide the email thread from his network provider with the 
original pdf document attached but he had never provided that.
He was asked to provide dual ID (a photo of him holding his photo identification). He  
uploaded a photo of someone else holding his driving licence. He later uploaded 
several photos of himself holding his driving licence and passport.
When Mr K referred his complaint to this Service, our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. She said: 
Although Mr K initially provided a photo of someone else holding his driving licence 
he later provided a photo with himself, so he had provided the proof of identity Great 
Lakes required.
There wasnt sufficient evidence that the letter from the network provider was not 
genuine, and Mr K later provided a further letter from the network provider, in the 
same format, which Great Lakes didnt comment on.
The investigator asked Great Lakes to reinstate the policy (removing the cancellation from 
any databases), deal with the claim in line with the policy terms and pay compensation of 
£100 to Mr K for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Mr K accepted the investigators view but Great Lakes didnt. It said Mr K had provided 
misleading information by providing a photo of someone else holding his ID, and it was 
irrelevant that he later provided the correct ID as the act of fraud had already been 
committed.
The investigator considered Great Lakes comments but didnt change her view. 
Great Lakes still disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says it hasnt 
gone down the route of flagging for fraud specifically; the main basis for declining the claim 
is that Mr K provided misleading information as outlined in the policy terms, which falls under 
the category of fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for, amongst other things, theft of Mr Ks mobile phone. So, if he 
can prove his phone was stolen, then on the face of it he has a valid claim. But as with any 
insurance policy, there are some conditions and exclusions that apply. In this case, that 
includes providing proof of ownership of the phone; evidence of what happened when the 
phone was stolen; and proof that the phone has been blocked by the network provider. 
Great Lakes says it hasnt flagged the case for fraud specifically. But when it declined the 
claim it told Mr K this was because it considered he had made a deliberate attempt to 
defraud his policy and it was relying on the fraud term in the policy. That term says 
Fraud 
The contract between You and Us is based on mutual trust. However, if anyone named on 
Your Policy Schedule or anyone acting for You provides false information or documentation 
or withholds important information to obtain cover under Your Policy for which You do not 
qualify, or to obtain cover at a reduced premium, then:
Your Policy may be void; and
We may be entitled to recover from You the amount of any claim already paid under 
Your Policy; and
We will not return any premium paid; and
We will inform the Police and criminal proceedings may follow.
In addition, in the event that anyone named on Your Policy Schedule or anyone acting for 
You:
1. Makes a claim knowing this to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in any respect or 
to any degree; or
2. Makes a statement in support of a claim knowing the statement to be false in any 
respect; or
3. Submits a document in support of a claim knowing the document to be forged, 
amended or false in any respect; or
4. Makes a claim in respect of any loss or damage caused by Your/their wilful act, 
knowledge or connivance; or
5. Acts in any other manner in order to gain a financial advantage to which You would 
not otherwise be entitled;
Then We
Will not pay any part of the claim; and
Will, at Our option, cancel Your Policy; and
Will not return any premium paid; andWill inform the Police and criminal proceedings may follow.
Great Lakes relied on two points  first, that Mr K had provided a document from his network 
provider that had been modified; and second, that he uploaded a photo of someone else 
holding his driving licence.
On the first point, as our investigator pointed out, Mr K provided a second letter (dated 15 
November 2022) from the provider and Great Lakes hasnt commented on that. Mr K has 
provided a copy of an email from his network provider of that date and an email he sent to 
Great Lakes forwarding the email from the provider. He says he Great Lakes replied on 18 
November confirming receipt. And Great Lakes file notes are consistent with this; they 
include a note on that date which says email thread on file  looks ok and docs verified.
Taking all of this into account I dont think Great Lakes can fairly rely on this as evidence of 
fraud or of an attempt to knowingly provide misleading information.
That leaves the issue of the photo ID. Mr K says he asked his friend to help and the friend 
showed him what to do, but they mistakenly uploaded the friends photo. Ive listened to the 
call where he explained to Great Lakes what happened. He was asked to upload the correct 
photo, which he then did. 
The purpose of this process is simply to provide proof of identity and once the correct photo 
was uploaded, Great Lakes had that. Mr K has explained what happened and that it was an 
error. 
Great Lakes says it wasnt accusing Mr K of fraud, but that he provided misleading 
information, which falls within its fraud clause in the policy. However, when declining the 
claim Great Lakes sad this was due to a deliberate attempt to defraud your policy. Either 
way, its a serious allegation and the onus is on Great Lakes to prove that Mr K knowingly 
provided false information. For the reasons set out above I dont consider it has done so. So 
it isnt fair to decline his claim and cancel the policy.
It was very upsetting for Mr K not only to have his claim declined, but to be accused of 
fraudulent behaviour and have his policy cancelled. I agree a payment of £100 is fair to 
recognise the upset caused to him and the inconvenience he has suffered.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to
reinstate the policy (removing any record of the cancellation from internal and 
external databases);
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and
pay compensation of £100 to Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman