DRN-2803788
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) irresponsibly 
lent to her. She says the interest on the loan wasnt made clear to her and when she 
contacted Trusttwo about help during the covid pandemic, it didnt provide help.
What happened
Miss A was lent a guarantor loan in November 2017. The loan was £5,000 repayable over 
36 monthly instalments of £231.59. Miss A repaid the loan in June 2020.
When Miss A complained to Trusttwo, I cant see that it responded to her complaint and so 
she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at Miss As complaint and thought that Trusttwo hadnt done 
anything wrong when it lent to her. 
Miss A disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Trusttwo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I think that it is important for me to say that Trusttwo was required to establish whether 
Miss A could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I have taken these factors into account 
when thinking about Miss As complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement which Miss A signed, and I can see that the 
agreement clearly states, how much Miss A was being lent, and what the charge for the 
credit would be. As Miss A signed the agreement, so Im satisfied that she should have been 
aware of the interest on the loan and how much she was due to repay.
Turning to the lending decision. Before lending Trusttwo has provided evidence to show that 
it asked Miss A about her income and expenses, searched her credit file and verified some 
of the information she provided with her bank statements. I think those checks went far 
enough in the circumstances.
Ive gone on to think about what Trusttwo saw from its checks and whether it made a fair 
lending decision. The checks showed that Miss A had an income of over £1,700, there 
wasnt anything within the credit file or bank statements that suggested Miss A was heavily 
indebted or relying on credit. I appreciate that Miss A has said she was borrowing from other 
lenders, and financially struggling, but this wasnt something that Trusttwo saw from its 
proportionate checks here. I think the overall circumstances of the lending decision made the 
checks it carried out reasonable and proportionate and based on those checks, I dont think 
it was wrong to lend.
Miss A has also said that Trusttwo didnt offer her any assistance when she lost her job 
during the pandemic even though she may have been entitled to a payment holiday. Ive 
asked Trusttwo about how it dealt with its customers during the period and it says it would 
usually offer help to consumers who need it. Ive also seen the system notes from Trusttwo 
around the time and the notes show that Miss A asked how Trusttwo was dealing with its 
customers who were impacted by the pandemic and it said it was reviewing that on a case 
by case basis. The notes then go on to show that the agent advised Miss A that her account 
was in credit and she could skip the next payment if she wanted, but she declined to do this. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Trusttwo acted reasonably and I cant see that it did 
anything wrong in this regard.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Miss A, but I hope my explanation helps her 
understand why Ive reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman