DRN-3188195
The complaint
This complaints about a Halifax-branded mortgage Ms H holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Ms H complains that Halifax:
refused her request to take the mortgage over in her own name after she and her former 
husband divorced; and
has refused requests she has made from time to time to put the mortgage on a lower 
rate.
What happened
to consider this complaint was confined to the Halifaxs treatment of Ms H since March 2014
Both parties were given a further two weeks to make any final comments on the issue before 
I dealt with the merits. That time has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Ms Hs complaint of unfair treatment arises from the fact that Halifax hasnt agreed to her 
periodic requests for her former husband to be removed from the mortgage and/or a new 
rate to be applied to the mortgage. Our rules only allow us to consider how Halifax has 
treated Ms H since March 2014; the difficulty with that is, with one exception, all the requests 
she made and Halifax refused, took place before March 2014.
The one exception is a request for a new rate, which Ms H submitted through a broker in 
2019, and Halifax agreed to it. That application from 2019 is the only event that took place in 
the period Im able to assess how Halifax has treated Ms H. Insofar as Halifax complied with 
the request made of it, there arent any grounds for me to find that it has treated Ms H 
unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman