DRN-4354038
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) poor 
handling of their claim, under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a leak at their home. They made a claim under their home insurance 
policy that they held with Lloyds. They raised several complaint issues essentially regarding 
the poor service, poor communication, and delays that they experienced throughout the 
claims process. 
In summary, the points are: 
The company arranging alternative accommodation failed to do this and contact 
them. This resulted in Mr and Mrs W having to arrange this (and removals) 
themselves. 
Mrs W was told, after viewing a property, that she had to lease it for 12 months 
minimum. This wasn't previously advised and wasn't practical, particularly as the 
work was only expected to take one month. 
Due to lack of availability for alternative accommodation, Mr and Mrs W stayed in a 
two-bedroom flat. This wasn't like-for-like to their home.  
The alternative accommodation wasn't fit for purpose and smelled of smoke, with a 
broken bed, drug paraphernalia, dirty, faulty lighting and appliances and no hot water 
for 10 days. 
They were left to arrange storage of their items. 
The flooring contractor damaged their new bifold doors and this wasn't rectified within 
a timely manner, or by the three separate contractors appointed to complete the 
repair. 
Lack of contact from the contractors (LC) Lloyds instructed to deal with the 
rectification of their property. 
Their underfloor heating wasn't fully functioning after the repairs. It took three visits to 
resolve.
There were issues with patchy paintwork and woodchips in the skirting boards. 
Delays in rectification work being carried out. 
They weren't made aware that a specific agent from Lloyds was overseeing the 
entire claim, nor that she had been taken off the case and a new department had 
taken over. 
Mrs Ws details were passed without her consent to someone who the LC found on 
social media, to arrange repairs of the bifold doors. 
Contractors didn't show up for pre-arranged appointments. 
Promised call backs weren't actioned. 
The appointed solicitors haven't provided adequate service and the claim has been 
going on for two years.
Lloyds accepted that the level of service that it provided during the claims journey was poor. 
It issued three final responses, in answer to the poor service it gave. 
The first was issued on 17 June 2021 and it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ws complaints regarding 
the alternative accommodation and storage issues. Which they said they had to sort 
themselves. Lloyds accepted this and offered and paid £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
The second final response was issued on 25 October 2022. This complaint related to the 
delays that Mr and Mrs W experienced, their renewal premiums, the poor communication 
and that the trades who attended, caused damage to their property. Lloyds awarded £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
The third final response was issued on 3 March 2023. This complaint related to the delays 
again. As well as a data breach. For this, Lloyds awarded £700 compensation, for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs W still remained unhappy with these outcomes and referred their complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. Her view was that Lloyds hadnt given our service permission to look into points 3, 4, 
8 and 11. As those points hadnt been previously raised with them. She advised Mr and Mrs 
W to raise those points as a new complaint with Lloyds. 
Also, Mrs W raised that they hadnt been reimbursed for parking permits that the trades used 
whilst at her home. Again, our investigator advised that as this hadnt been previously raised 
with Lloyds, then it was only fair for it to have an opportunity to address this before referring 
the complaint to our service, if needed.
Our investigator discovered that some of the complaints (nos 1, 2 and 5) raised, were out of 
jurisdiction, in that they had been referred to our service outside of the six-month time limit. 
So, she was unable to consider those complaints. 
Finally, as to points 6,7,9,10,12, 13, 14 and 15, our investigator upheld these complaints and 
made the following recommendations. She felt that although Lloyds had awarded a high 
amount of compensation, namely £950, she didnt think this adequately reflected the impact 
caused on Mr and Mrs W. So, she said that it should increase the amount of compensation 
by a further £350. As well as take further action to rectify the outstanding work namely with 
the underfloor heating. And to provide updates in relation to the timescales in progressing 
the legal proceedings. 
Lloyds accepted the view. Mr and Mrs W did not. They felt that the additional £350 was 
paltry, given the impact that this had. They felt that the breach of data which they said was 
serious had been ignored. They felt it was unfair that Lloyds should only pay a further £350, 
given that they had to do so much during the claim process, which Lloyds shouldve been 
doing. They also felt that they had been mis-sold the policy. So, as they felt a higher amount 
of compensation ought to be recommended, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but I hope my 
findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Its clear from the evidence and both parties accept that the level of service Mr and Mrs W 
experienced fell below the standard that Lloyds would have liked. Lloyds recognised this and 
offered a total, of £950 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the amount of compensation that Lloyds 
offered, as they said that it failed to adequately reflect the impact its errors had on them.  
They would like a far greater amount, so Ive concentrated my findings on whether the total 
amount of compensation (and I include the further £350 that Lloyds has agreed to pay) is fair 
in the circumstances of these complaints. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree that the complaints that related to the storage of their 
items and the issues regarding the alternative accommodation, were referred to our service 
past the six-month time limit. 
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the business has sent its final response. This rule is 
called Dispute Resolution rule. It can be found in the regulators handbook of rules and 
guidance (available on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website).  
Mr and Mrs W referred the complaint to our service, in excess of the six-month limit. 
Consequently, Im unable to consider these complaint issues. 
I also agree that several of the complaints as outlined above, hadnt been raised with Lloyds 
previously (namely 3,4,8 and 11). And I think it only fair that Lloyds is given an opportunity to 
address the concerns that Mr and Mrs W have, before referring the complaints to our 
service, if need be. 
Turning to the main issue of this complaint, that is, the amount of compensation offered. Mr 
and Mrs W have explained that they believe that a total of £1,300 compensation that Lloyds 
has agreed to pay, doesnt adequately reflect the impact Lloyds errors made on them. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W suffered a significant amount of inconvenience and distress 
as a result of Lloyds errors. But we are guided by our compensation guidelines when 
considering what is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for a business to award. 
Having reviewed those guidelines (which are on our website) Im satisfied that Lloyds errors 
caused serious disruption to Mr and Mrs Ws lives over many months. And in addition to the 
significant inconvenience caused, I think the £1,300 compensation offered is in line with our 
strict guidance on compensation awards. So, I dont think the amount offered is 
unreasonable and I do think it adequately reflects the impact caused to Mr and Mrs W. 
I ought to say that I understand the reasons why Mr and Mrs W are seeking more, but our 
service is not here to punish businesses for mistakes or failings. Rather we make decisions 
on an impartial basis and make assessments on whether compensation is warranted. It is 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who has the power to penalise businesses and Mr 
and Mrs W, are at liberty to refer this further to the FCA for investigation, if they wish. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W believe that the breach of data hasnt been taken seriously. 
But I can assure them that this has been taken into consideration when assessing the level 
of the increased compensation amount. Again, it isnt our service who can conclude on 
whether there was a breach of data or not. As this is the remit of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But we can comment on whether a business has acted 
appropriately or not. And Im satisfied that Lloyds did act appropriately. Not only did it log it 
as a breach it appears that it offered compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Mr and Mrs W are again at liberty to refer this to the ICO for further investigation if they wish. 
The ICO has the power to fine businesses, or individuals within them.
Mr and Mrs W have mentioned that there are outstanding issues namely the correct working 
of the underfloor heating. And the lack of updates from the solicitors. Im pleased that Lloyds 
has recognised this and agreed that these outstanding issues need to be addressed.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs W felt that they had been mis-sold the policy. But I cant see that this 
complaint had previously been raised with Lloyds and I think if Mr and Mrs W wish to, they 
ought to raise this new complaint to Lloyds for further investigation. If after it has been 
investigated and they remain unhappy, of course they can refer a new complaint to our 
service. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I do find 
that Lloyds acknowledged the failings in customer service and accepted that the handling of 
their claim shouldve been better.
Lloyds originally offered a high amount of compensation. But I do think that given the 
significant distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W, that the compensation 
should be increased by a further £350, making an overall total of £1,300, which I think is fair 
and reasonable. It also takes into account the impact of the failings on Mr and Mrs W. 
Putting things right
I recognise that the whole event has no doubt been a challenge for Mr and Mrs W, and I do 
think that Lloyds also recognise its failings. So, to put matters right, I direct Lloyds as 
indicated below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
To put matters right, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs W £1,300 (in total) compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Contact Mr and Mrs W to discuss any outstanding issues with their underfloor heating which 
are related to this claim and, if appropriate, arrange a follow up visit to repair this.  
Contact Mr and Mrs W to discuss a current update from the solicitors and timescales for 
progressing the legal proceedings.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman