DRN-2474910
The complaint
Mr Z complains on behalf of his company, A, about what Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) did after 
he made a claim on As business insurance policy. 
What happened
A (a fitness centre) holds insurance with Lloyds which covers general liability, professional 
indemnity and management liability. In April 2019 Mr Z received an email which purported to 
provide new bank details for his leasing agents. He made As next rental payment on the 
basis of those details. However, he subsequently found the email was fraudulent and made 
a claim under the policy for the loss of this money. 
Lloyds turned down the claim because it said, having reviewed the policy, it didnt provide 
cover for what had happened here. Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered and 
didnt think Lloyds had treated A unfairly in turning this down. Mr Z didnt agree. He said hed 
paid a premium for five years to protect his business and he wanted the insurer to pay the 
loss suffered which took place when that cover was in place. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at what As policy with Lloyds covers. Under part A (General Liability) cover 
is provided:
against all Loss which you become legally liable to pay as compensation in respect of:
a) Personal injury; 
b) Property damage; and / or
c) Advertising injury
Part B (professional liability cover) says 
Subject to the terms of this Policy, we will Indemnify you for all Loss arising from a 
Claim against you arising out of a breach of professional duty in the conduct of the 
Business where the Claim Is first made during the Period of Insurance and first 
reported to us during the Period of insurance."
And part C (management liability) says
Subject to the terms of this Policy, we will:
a. indemnify your Officer or your employee for loss arising from a claim against that 
Officer or Employee, where the Officer or Employee Is not indemnified by you:
b. Indemnify you for all Loss arising from a Claim against you for a Wrongful Act in 
the conduct of the Business:
c. indemnify you for all loss Incurred up to a limit of $1 million arising from an 
Employment Practices Liability Claim: and
d. reimburse you for all loss arising from a claim against your Officer or your 
Employee, where you have Indemnified that Officer or Employee:
But in all of those circumstances cover is only engaged where A is legally liable to pay 
compensation to a third party or where a claim has been made against it. That isnt whats 
happened here; theres a loss to A of the rental payment but I havent seen anything to show 
the criteria relating to legal liability for compensation or a claim being made against A have 
been met. And Im not in any case persuaded that any of the circumstances described in the 
various cover sections could reasonably be said to apply to whats happened here. 
So while I appreciate this is a significant loss for A to bear I dont think its something thats 
covered by the policy it holds with Lloyds. As a result I dont think Lloyds treated A unfairly in 
turning down the claim it made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask A to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman