DRN-3855149
The complaint
Mr R complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to correctly deposit funds into his account.
What happened
Mr R had been collecting coins and together with his wife had counted them. He believed at 
the time that the total was around £1,170. Over the next few weeks, additional coins were 
added to the collection and Mr R believed it had reached about £1,270.
Mr R, together with members from his family visited a Metro branch and used their coin 
deposit machine to count the coins and deposit the funds into his account. Mr R sought help 
from the Metro staff who showed him how to use the machine.
Two separate deposits of coins were made, one totalling £256.79 and the other £407.59. 
The total coins counted by the machine was £664.38, which was later deposited into Mr Rs 
account. Mr R was expecting to see a much higher amount deposited and raised the issue at 
the time with Metro staff.
The bin used to collect coins was immediately removed from the machine and sealed by 
staff. It was later collected by a third-party company responsible for maintaining the machine. 
They later reported that the machine was operating properly and only a small excess of 
funds were found when they counted the coins (about £2.00).  
Mr R complained to Metro about what had happened and said that hed been told by staff 
members that other customers had experienced difficulties with the machine. Metro told Mr 
R that the money credited to his account was correct and they couldnt see any error with the 
machine when he deposited the coins.
Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who reviewed the evidence provided by both 
parties. Metro were asked about Mr Rs comment that other customers had experienced 
problems. Metro said they hadnt had any other reports of difficulties with the machine.
After considering all the evidence, Mr Rs complaint wasnt upheld as the evidence supplied 
by Metro indicated that the machine had correctly counted the coins deposited into it and no 
excess was found.
Mr R disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The coin deposit machine used by Mr R was managed at the time by a third party. Once Mr 
R raised the issue with Metro staff, they immediately removed the bin that was used to 
collect all the coins up till that point and sealed the bin. This ensured that no further deposits 
could be made into the bin and allowed the third party to count the funds later when they 
unsealed the bin.
So, it seems at the point the issue was raised all the coins deposited by Mr R had been put 
into the machine. There were no other coins contained within the machine and as the 
amount that Mr R believes was missing was over £600 in coins  I would think that if they 
had gone elsewhere in the machine  they would likely have been noticed.
Because the bin was sealed at the time, it follows that when it was collected and counted,  
the same amount of coins were present from when Mr R deposited his money. The count 
carried out by the third-party didnt show any excess funds (beyond £2.00) and their 
evidence indicates there was no operational problem with the machine when Mr R used it. 
So, when I take all the evidence into account, it seems reasonable that the coins deposited 
by Mr R was the same amount later credited into his account. The money in the bin matched 
the deposits made into Metro accounts (including Mr Rs), so it seems more likely than not 
the funds credited were those deposited in coins by Mr R (£664.38) and not the £1,270 he 
was expecting.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman