DRN-3425681
The complaint
Mr F says Shelby Finance Limited (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to him
.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Shelby provided to Mr F between January 
2021 and December 2021. Mr Fs lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/01/2021 04/03/2021 9 £500 £107.88
2 14/03/2021 03/06/2021 9 £600 £130.03
3 17/12/2021 outstanding 9 £750 £161.22
There was a six month gap between Mr F repaying loan two and taking out loan three. So 
loan three can be reasonably regarded as the start of a new chain of borrowing. From what I 
can see, Mr F made one repayment for loan three and there remains an amount 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought none of the loans should have been 
given. Shelby disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Shelby 
said it thought its checks showed that the loans were affordable and sustainable for Mr F. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Shelby was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Shelby asked Mr F for information about his income and outgoings and it carried out credit 
checks for each loan. The gap between loan two and three was significant and I think Shelby 
could reasonably consider loan three the start of a new chain of borrowing and carry out the 
affordability checks that were appropriate to that. So I think Shelbys affordability checks 
were proportionate and sufficient. 
Mr F said his monthly income was between £2,500 and £3,500. Shelby verified this and 
established that Mr F earned about £2,500 a month. Mr F said his monthly outgoings ranged 
between £600 and £1,000. But Shelby thought this should be between around £925 to 
£1,699 a month across his borrowing. 
Shelby also carried out credit checks and these showed that Mr F had active accounts for 
over £20,000 and loan and instalment accounts for between £16,068 and £25,155 during his 
borrowing from Shelby. Mr F also had significant defaults on his record from more than a 
year prior to his borrowing. 
As our adjudicator explained, Shelbys credit checks for all the loans would have shown that 
Mr Fs loan repayments added to Mr Fs existing credit commitments would account for a 
significant proportion of his income. So Shelby, from its own checks, should have realised 
that Mr F would have been unable to meet his existing commitments without having to 
borrow again. 
So I think Shelby should have realised that Mr F would be unable to sustainably repay his 
loans. And so I think it was wrong to have provided all of them.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr F from loan one, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Shelbys liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Shelby Finance Limited (trading as Dot Dot Loans) to:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans one to three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset any refund against any balance of principal still owing for loan three and agree 
an affordable repayment plan to clear any balance remaining;
remove any negative information about loans one to three from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Shelby to take off tax from this interest. Shelby must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. I require 
Shelby Finance Limited (trading as Dot Dot Loans) to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman