DRN-3942504
The complaint
Mr D complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) reduced his credit limit on his store card leading to charges.
What happened
Mr D said he applied for a credit limit increase on his store card to £800 which was agreed. 
But, this was then reduced to £600 without explanation. He says he incurred charges 
because of this and that he was told by an agent were Argos, we can do what we want.
In their response of 6 May 2022 Argos said on 3 December 2020 Mr Ds credit limit was 
temporarily increased from £600 to £800 for a week. When his credit limit reduced back to 
£600, he registered a complaint. In their outcome to that complaint, Argos said it hadnt been 
made clear the credit limit increase was temporary, so they arranged for the limit to stay in 
place until 19 February 2022 to allow Mr D sufficient time to bring the balance back down 
below the £600 limit. They also offered Mr D £50 credit to his account to say sorry for what 
happened.
Argos added theyd listened to the phone call, and the agent didnt say theyre Argos so they 
can do what they want. Overall they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint as they said hed been 
told about the limit reducing back to £600.
Unhappy with this Mr D asked us to look into things, saying he didnt get the letter Argos 
referred to. 
Our Investigator let Mr D know we couldnt consider the issues thatd occurred in the earlier 
complaint because theyd been brought too late to our service to consider. Mr D accepted 
this. Ultimately, our Investigator found Mr D had been told about the limit going to decrease 
to £600, so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D didnt accept this, and said he knew nothing about the short-term agreement with 
Argos until this year. He said this information should have been sent to him sooner and 
asked for matters to be reviewed. In his responses to our Investigators outcome Mr D said 
he wanted the whole complaint sorted  which I understood to mean he thought the previous 
complaint should also be considered.
I ultimately issued a decision explaining we couldnt look at that complaint and why. So, Ive 
now moved on to the merits of the complaint our service can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D may find it a little confusing that our Investigator, and now I, have referred 
to his previous complaint which weve said cant be considered.
But its important to explain for context  because whats happened in this complaint is linked 
to what happened previously  albeit Ive set out separately to Mr D why we cant consider 
that complaint.
In December 2020 Mr D was given a temporary credit limit increase of one week after being 
turned down for a permanent application. Argos investigated this and found this wasnt 
explained very well  so they agreed as a temporary measure to leave Mr Ds credit limit at 
£800 until 19 February 2022. They told Mr D, in their final response to this complaint, that on 
19 February 2022 his credit limit would be reduced back to £600. And they offered Mr D £50 
to his account to say sorry for what happened.
Mr D says he never received this letter. But, moving into dealing with this complaint, I think 
Mr D was told. 
In an email dated 26 February 2021 Mr D says the only reason hes gone over his limit is 
due to Argos customer service department. And he says and you have the cheek to give 
me 50 pound credit well no comment to that.
I appreciate Mr D may not remember this. Memories can and do fade but Ive seen the email 
showing Mr Ds comments  so, on balance, Im satisfied Mr D did receive the letter.
Ive not seen the £50 credit was mentioned anywhere else. So, as this was contained in the 
same letter as the notification the credit limit increase to £800 was temporary sent in 
February 2021, and would be removed on 19 February 2022, it follows Im satisfied Mr D 
was told about this.
I do think it would have been helpful if Argos had reminded Mr D of this. A year is a long time 
for someone to remember whats going to happen. But I can see Mr D was over his limit 
regularly in the period leading up to the decrease in February 2022  so, Im not satisfied 
Mr D has been unfairly disadvantaged by Argos not getting in touch, because I cant see 
hed have been able to do anything differently to avoid the situation hes now found himself 
in.
Ive also listened to the calls Mr D had with Argos  and havent found any evidence of them 
saying they can do what they want as Mr D suggested. Ive found Argos dealt with Mr D 
politely and professionally, despite Mr D swearing several times at Argos agent in the call on 
5 March 2022.
Overall then, for the reasons Ive set out above, Ive not found Argos have done anything 
wrong. Because of that, I wont be telling them to reinstate the £800 limit, nor will I be telling 
them to refund any charges Mr D may have incurred as a result of the decrease in credit 
limit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman