DRN-2941491
The complaint
This complaint is about an Aviva Equity Release UK Limited equity release mortgage that 
was held by Mrs L. Mrs L sadly died in August 2020 and the complaint has been brought by 
her estate. Mrs Ls daughter  who Ill refer to in this decision as Ms M  is Executor of the 
estate and is representing it in this matter. To that end, any reference to Ms M in this 
decision should be taken to mean her acting in her capacity as Executor of the estate.
Ms Ms said that her sister - who Ill refer to as Ms C - was vulnerable due to her health 
concerns (which I wont detail here to protect her privacy), and so lived in the property with 
their mother. Ms M also feels her mother was vulnerable at the time. Ms M wants Aviva to 
either cancel the interest charged (so they just repay the original capital borrowed) or to 
allow Ms C to remain in the property for a period of time until shes ready to be rehoused.
Before I go any further, I hope Ms M will accept my condolences for her, and her familys, 
loss.
What happened
Mrs L applied for this equity release mortgage in October 2008 through a third-party 
mortgage broker acting on her behalf.
It was recorded on the application form that was submitted to Aviva that Ms C lived in the 
property, that she had the mental capacity to sign an Occupants Deed and was willing to do 
so. It was also recorded that Mrs L wanted to borrow just under £45,000 to repay debts that 
were secured on the property, and then a further £43,000 to reduce some unsecured debts 
and pay the application fee. That took Mrs L to the maximum loan allowed based on the 
value of the property shed declared.
When the property was valued the surveyor said it was worth slightly more than Mrs L 
thought, so the loan amount increased from £88,000 to £99,000. The mortgage completed in 
January 2009.
Aviva said in the completion letter that the mortgage was for £99,000 and the interest rate 
was 6.80% per annum compound. It said no monthly repayments were needed during the 
lifetime of the mortgage, and the total amount owed  including the interest and charges  
would be repaid when Mrs L died or went into long term care.
I understand Ms M has held Power of Attorney over Mrs Ls affairs since around 2013, and 
she then complained to Aviva after Mrs L died in 2020. Ms M also complained to the broker 
that gave the advice about the mortgage, and about the solicitor involved in the transaction.
The complaint about the broker has also been passed to me to decide, and Ill be doing that 
as a separate matter to this decision about the lender, Aviva. Ms M has provided us with a 
copy of a letter from the Legal Ombudsman about the solicitor in which it says it cant take 
things forward as too long has passed since so there would no longer be a file about the 
matter, and the solicitor is no longer trading so there was no reasonable prospect of any 
award being paid even if the complaint was investigated and upheld.
Our investigator said Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. He said it had no reason to believe 
Mrs L and/or Ms C were vulnerable and the checks about the understanding of the contract 
(and that Ms C would need to leave the property when Mrs L died) were down to the 
solicitor. He had no reason to believe Ms C hadnt signed the form waiving her rights to 
remain in the property after Mrs Ls death, albeit that form could no longer be found, or that 
Aviva had any reason to believe Mrs Ls solicitor hadnt followed the correct process laid out 
under the Safe Home Income Plans (SHIP) requirements. Again, the SHIP certificate from 
Mrs Ls solicitor can no longer be found, but there was no reason to believe Aviva didnt 
receive it at the time as without it the funds wouldnt have been released.
Ms M didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I trust Ms M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
As our investigator has explained, the only issue Im able to consider here is that relating to 
Mrs L as she was Avivas customer. I have no power to consider things from Ms Cs point of 
view, nor can I deal with her concerns about having to move out of the property.
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage, or for borrowers to regret the 
erosion of the equity in their properties. 
Precisely because of this, even before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 
2004, the sales process for these products has always been very robust, with borrowers 
required to take advice from a solicitor, as well as a financial advisor.
Given the passage of time, its not possible to say with certainty exactly what happened. But 
Ive no reason to believe that Aviva didnt send the occupiers form to Mrs Ls solicitor for 
Ms C to sign. I also have no reason to believe that Aviva didnt receive the SHIP certificate 
from the solicitor as without that Aviva wouldnt have released the funds for completion. The 
fact those documents now cant be found is unfortunate but is also understandable 
considering the passage of time.
The letter from the Legal Ombudsman to Ms M is based on documentation provided by 
Ms M and that says:
I note on 26 November 2008 [the appointed solicitors] wrote to your late mother 
acknowledging the identity documents sent to them. I have also seen a further letter that 
day advising that the mortgage offer had been received and asking your late mother to 
call the office for a telephone consultation before returning any signed documents to 
them. I have also seen a copy of the invoice from [a firm of solicitors local to Mrs L, who 
incidentally appear to be the same firm that arranged Mrs Ls probate for Ms M] dated 
2 January 2009. I have spoken with [the local solicitors] who have confirmed they were 
asked by [the appointed solicitors] to undertake a home visit to witness your sisters 
signature on the form and explain the form to her. [The local solicitors] were not involved 
with providing legal advice about the equity release product to your mother.
From this we can see that a local firm of solicitors has confirmed it visited Mrs L and Ms C at 
home at the time, and that it explained the form to Ms C and witnessed her signature on it.
If that local solicitor had any doubts about Ms Cs capacity to understand what she was 
signing or had concerns that she was signing it under duress, then they were obligated to 
report that to the solicitor that had been appointed to act and that had instructed them to 
undertake the visit. That local solicitor would have been best placed to make that judgement 
call, and as they had no concerns then I cant say Aviva did anything wrong in continuing 
with the application.
Ms M has said that in the absence of the original legal firm providing the advice and 
maintaining the appropriate records, the responsibility for proper legal advice (and keeping 
records/evidence of it) now reverts to Aviva / [the broker] to prove, since the legal firm has 
disappeared. But thats not right. The parties involved had distinct roles and responsibilities 
at the time the mortgage was taken out. The fact one of the parties is no longer around 
doesnt mean their responsibilities are passed onto the others. Whilst I understand Mrs Ms 
upset that the solicitor is no longer trading, and there is no file to be obtained from them, I 
simply cant consider that issue here in a complaint against Aviva.
Ms M has asked various questions about the guidelines for vulnerable customers, and the 
steps Aviva did  and should have  taken. But theres nothing in the application to Aviva 
that would have raised any concerns that Mrs L (or Ms C) were vulnerable. The fact Mrs L 
had debts and was taking out the mortgage to repay them wasnt a sign of vulnerability, 
otherwise most equity release customers would have to be classed as such. Nor was her 
age, as equity release mortgages were only available to customers over a certain age, so 
again that would encompass most equity release customers. Ms M didnt hold Power of 
Attorney over her mothers affairs for another 4 or 5 years, so it seems Ms M trusted her 
mother could look after her own affairs at the time of the sale.
It was marked on the application form that Ms C had the capacity to sign an occupiers form, 
and that she was willing to do so. And from the information we have from the Legal 
Ombudsman it seems a local solicitor has confirmed that it visited Ms C to explain the form 
and witness her signature on it.
At the time this mortgage was taken out Aviva had no responsibility to check the information 
it was given by Mrs Ls adviser or solicitor. And there was simply nothing in this application 
that would have raised any concerns with Aviva such that I would have expected it to ask 
questions of the parties involved.
It may be Mrs L was vulnerable, and Ms C lacked the capacity to waive her rights to occupy 
the property after Mrs L died (to be clear, Im not saying either way that either of those was 
the case), but Aviva had no way of knowing that. Aviva accepted this application in good 
faith and released the money to Mrs L. Im assuming Mrs L used the funds to repay her 
debts, thus relieving herself of the strain of trying to meet monthly debt payments out of her 
pension income.The terms of the mortgage contract that Mrs L entered into were that no payments would be 
made during the life of the mortgage, and that the interest would roll-up and the total debt 
would then be repaid when Mrs L either died or went into long term care. That was clear in 
the paperwork. The mortgage offer said:
A lifetime mortgage is a special type of loan which is usually designed to run for the 
rest of your life, and which means that you borrow money that is secured on your 
home to give you a lump sum and for a regular income The amount you owe to the 
lender is usually paid back from the proceeds of the sale of your home after your 
death if you are borrowing with someone else, this would be after the death of the 
last borrower Any money left over would be paid to your beneficiaries.
This lifetime mortgage will provide you with a cash lump sum You will not make any 
monthly repayments during the life of this lifetime mortgage The total amount you 
owe including the interest and enlarges must be repaid when you have left your 
home because you have died or need long-term care.
We have based this offer on an estimated term of 15 years, but remember that the 
term of this lifetime mortgage is not fixed and could be longer or shorter than 15 
years if you are still living in your home at the end of 15 years, the lifetime mortgage 
will continue to run.
Norwich Union Equity Release Limited has the right to take action to repossess your 
home for the following reasons
- it the lifetime mortgage has not been repaid within 12 months of you leaving your 
home because you have died or need long-term care.
Section 8 is entitled What you will owe and when and said This shows how the amount 
paid to you and the interest and any fees that we charge mount up over 15 years. It has 
been calculated using the current interest rate of 6.80%. Interest is added to the amount you 
owe annually. Remember that the mortgage could run for a longer or shorter time than 15 
years, and if it runs for longer, the amount you owe will carry on increasing.
There was then a table to show the amount that was likely to be owed at the end of each 
year. This showed (Ive taken just a sample, rather than listed every year):
Year Balance at the start of year Interest charged Balance at the end of the year
1 £98,311.00 (plus £689 fee) £6,732.00 £105,732.00
5 £128,801.29 £8,758.49 £137,559.78
10 £178,958.45 £12,169.85 £191,138.30
15 £248,675.35 £16,909.92 £265,885.27
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Aviva made it clear that the interest would roll-up 
on this mortgage and what the potential amounts would be that would be owed at the end of 
each year. It also made it clear the debt would need to be repaid when Mrs L died, or if she 
went into long term care. So it should have been clear to Mrs L that Ms C wouldnt be able to 
continue to live in the property after her death (or if she went into long term care) unless she 
was able to find a way to repay the total debt by other means.
As Aviva did nothing wrong here there are no grounds for me to order Aviva to waive, reduce 
or freeze the debt in any way. Nor are there grounds for me to order Aviva to allow Ms C to 
remain in the property for any set period of time.Having considered everything, I simply cant uphold this complaint however much Ms M may 
want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman