DRN-2658609
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way Zenith Insurance plc settled a claim on her car insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss W had a car insurance policy with Zenith. She made a claim after being involved in an 
accident which wasnt her fault.
Unfortunately, Miss Ws car was written off after the accident, having suffered structural 
damage. An engineers view was that the cost of repairs would be almost £3,700. Zenith 
valued the car at £2,800.
Miss W didnt think it was fair that Zenith were asking her to pay the excess on her policy 
(£1,100) given that the third party driver had accepted fault and their insurer had paid out on 
that basis.
When Zenith told her that the car had been written off and told her what settlement shed be 
getting  after the excess and outstanding premiums were taken off  Miss W asked to keep 
the car.
She says she was originally told this could be arranged, but Zenith subsequently told her the 
car has already been disposed of.
Miss W complained to Zenith. They admitted that their communications about what would 
happen to the car were poor and may have misled Miss W. And they paid her £200 
compensation for her trouble and upset.
But they said their settlement of the claim was fair and that Miss W would have to pay the 
excess. 
Miss W was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Zenith had done anything wrong.
Miss W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no suggestion here that Zeniths valuation of Miss Ws car  at £2,800  is 
inaccurate. I know they revised the valuation during their handling of the claim, having 
originally said the car was worth £2,300. But Miss W hasnt raised any complaint about the 
final valuation of £2,800. In any case, weve seen how Zenith calculated that figure using the 
industry standard price guides and the valuation is fair.
Miss Ws policy says Zenith will:
cover you against loss or damage (less any excess that applies) caused 
accidentally
It says Zenith may pay for repairs, or provide a replacement car, or settle a claim by a 
payment in cash.
It also says:
If the vehicle is deemed to be beyond economical repair, the damaged car becomes 
our property once a claim is met
Miss Ws policy schedule states that an excess of £1,100 will apply to any claim for loss or 
damage caused by an accident.
I should mention here, for the sake of completeness, that a revised schedule sent to Miss W 
after a mid-term adjustment to her policy (shed changed cars and moved address) 
contained a typographical error that said the damage excess was £110.
Im satisfied this is purely a typographical error. The fire and theft excess on the same 
document is £1,100. And all other documents sent to Miss W about the policy  including the 
original policy schedule - state that the excess is £1,100. 
Miss W didnt raise this issue with us herself, which also indicates that she knew  and 
accepts  that the excess on her policy was £1,100.
Miss Ws objection to having to pay the excess in this case arises from the fact that she 
wasnt at fault for the accident. I can see why Miss W is upset and frustrated about this  
shes told us that once the excess has been taken off the settlement, she cant afford to 
replace her car.
I can see why that might appear unfair to Miss W. Her car has been damaged through no 
fault of her own. And now she cant afford to replace it. But I believe shes misunderstood 
how excess payments work in insurance policies.
In short, the policy is clear that the excess will apply to all claims  no matter who was at 
fault. This isnt unusual  in fact, most if not all car insurance policies work this way. And 
generally, the amount of the excess is reflected in the price of the policy. Usually, the higher 
the excess is, the less the same customer will have to pay in premiums.
Where the third party insurer accepts liability, as they did in Miss Ws case, the customer is 
entitled to reclaim the excess from them. But its up to the customer to do this as the excess 
is an uninsured loss. In effect, when she took out her policy, Miss W agreed to pay the first 
£1,100 of the cost of any repairs or replacement of her vehicle, which means Zenith arent 
insuring that first amount of any damage or loss.
Miss W thinks Zenith should claim the excess back from the third party insurer in this case. 
But Im afraid thats not the case because Zenith doesnt have any insurable interest in the 
excess. 
I can see that Zenith told Miss W that she can claim the excess back from the third party 
insurer and provided her with a standard wording to do this in her communication with them. 
So, Im satisfied Zenith have done all theyre required to do and that theyve been fair to 
Miss W in trying to help her claim the excess back from the third party insurer.Ill turn now to the disposal of the car after the damage had been assessed. 
Zenith wrote to Miss W to tell her the car was damaged to the extent that it was beyond 
economical repair. They set out the amount theyd pay out in cash (later revised to £2,800 
from £2,300), less the excess and the outstanding premiums. And they said:
The vehicle now becomes the property of the underwriters and will be disposed of in 
the next 14 days.
Not unreasonably perhaps, Miss W assumed that if she contacted Zenith within 14 days and 
asked to keep the car, she might be allowed to do so.
Indeed, when she contacted Zenith on the same day as she received that letter, it seems 
they told her they could return the car to her  although theyd have to review the settlement 
in that case. 
Thats not unreasonable  there is a residual value to the car, if only for parts / scrap, so 
Zenith werent under any obligation to pay Miss W the full value of the car and return it to 
her. As the policy says, the car becomes their property once a claim is settled (see above).
As it turned out, when Zenith approached the salvage company working for them, theyd 
already disposed of the car and so Zenith couldnt retrieve it and return it to Miss W. This 
was only a couple of days after Miss W had received the settlement letter. 
You can read the sentence about disposal of the car in the settlement letter in two ways, in 
my view. As I say, I dont think it was entirely unreasonable for Miss W to assume she had 
14 days to ask for the car back. But I can also see that the sentence is simply a bald 
statement of fact  the car belongs to the underwriter now and theyre going to dispose of it. 
In other words, its not asking Miss Ws permission or agreement to do so.
Zenith have accepted that the ambiguity in the letter and the nature of their response to the 
call Miss W then made may have misled Miss W. And thats why theyve offered her £200 in 
compensation.
I dont think thats unreasonable  for two main reasons. One, as the policy makes clear, the 
car is Zeniths property once the claim is settled. It wasnt unreasonable to think that if 
Miss W hadnt raised the issue of her keeping the car before then, the issuing of their 
settlement letter effectively gave them possession of the car.
Two  and perhaps more importantly  Miss W has made it clear to us that she wanted to 
take the car back because the settlement wouldnt allow her to buy a replacement and she 
wanted to continue to drive the car.
I can see that might have been the best solution for Miss W in other circumstances. 
However, in this case, Zenith had a very relevant report from the engineer who inspected the 
car after the accident. 
The engineer said the car had structural damage. It was written off as category S  which 
means that whilst it can be repaired, it has structural damage. And that means if it were 
repaired, the repairs would need to be approved by an accredited engineer  and the car 
would need to be re-registered with the DVLA.The engineer also put the cost of the necessary repairs at just under £3,700. So, if Miss W 
couldnt afford to replace the car  at a cost of £2,700 - after she got her cash settlement, 
she certainly wasnt going to be able to repair it  at a cost of just under £3,700.
So, Im satisfied Miss W wasnt disadvantaged  in the way she imagined  by Zeniths 
agents having disposed of the car before shed had a chance to ask for a revised settlement 
figure and the return of the car. She wasnt going to be able to use the car safely or legally 
without incurring considerable cost  or without paying out much more than the cost of 
replacing her car. 
After we received her complaint, Miss W also raised a further issue with us about the hire car 
shed been provided with after the accident. I believe she thought this had been provided by 
Zenith, but it hadnt. In fact, her policy explicitly said that Zenith would only provide a hire car 
if the insured vehicle were being repaired  and not if it were written off.
Im unsure whether the hire car was provided by Miss Ws broker or by the third party 
insurer, but Im sure Miss W will understand that either way, its not something we can look 
into as part of this complaint against Zenith.
In summary, I cant say that Zenith have treated Miss W unfairly or unreasonably in dealing 
with her claim. They accepted the claim and paid out a settlement in line with the terms of 
the policy. Theyve tried to help Miss W with her approach to the third party insurer to 
recover her excess. And theyve compensated her fairly for any misunderstanding around 
the disposal of the car.
Just to be absolutely clear, the documents we have on file suggest the £200 compensation 
was paid to Miss W before she brought her complaint to us. Of course, if that isnt in fact the 
case, Id expect Zenith to ensure that the payment is made now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman