DRN-3339971
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the support he received from Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
What happened
In September 2018, Mr S entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers to 
acquire a used car. The cash price of the car was around £11,000. The amount of credit was 
around £10,786. Mr S provided an advance payment of around £214, and there were 60 
monthly repayments of around £260. 
The contact notes and the balance statement for Mr S finance agreement, provided by 
Close Brothers, show that in March 2020 Mr S missed a payment on his finance agreement. 
In April 2020, Close Brothers spoke with Mr S, and they agreed to provide him with 
assistance because he was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. The contact notes show that Close Brothers agreed to provide Mr S with 30 days 
breathing space, hence allowed him to postpone his April payment, and they explained to Mr 
S that there will be no negative impact on his credit file as a result of this payment not being 
made. This breathing space was further extended by another 90 days, so Mr Ss May 2020, 
June 2020 and July 2020 payments were also postponed. 
Regarding the March 2020 payment that was missed, the contact notes show that Close 
Brothers advised Mr S that the March 2020 payment was already logged as a missed 
payment on his credit file, and that they agreed to log this as a complaint for him. 
Mr S is unhappy because he said that Close Brothers were incorrectly reporting adverse 
information on his credit file for the payments mentioned above. He said that he had a 
payment plan in place, and his payments were always paid on time. He said they incorrectly 
reported adverse information on his credit file which prevented him from getting credit. So, 
he said, he wants Close Brothers to pay him a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. 
In February 2021, Close Brothers wrote to Mr S. In this correspondence they explained that 
they submitted an amendment request, at the start of February 2021, for all late payment 
markers to be removed from Mr Ss credit file for the period between April 2020 and January 
2021. They also explained that requests can take up to 60 days to be fully implemented by 
the credit reference agencies, and that, most likely, at this time his credit file was still in the 
process of being amended. Since then, Close Brothers have also told our service that the 
adverse information for the March 2020 payment was requested to be removed as well.
Mr S was unhappy with Close Brothers response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and thought that Close Brothers 
should pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Close Brothers agreed with the investigator, but Mr S disagreed. He was not happy with the 
amount of compensation because he felt that it didnt properly reflect the amount of distress 
and inconvenience caused, and he mentioned that the phone calls he had to make probably 
amounted to more than the £150 compensation suggested by the investigator.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr S and Close Brothers that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr S acquired the car under a Conditional Sale Agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In this decision Im only considering the issues Mr S had with Close Brothers reporting 
negative information on his credit file including, and during, the period between March 2020 
and January 2021, so specifically only the issues that have been addressed by Close 
Brothers in their final responses dated 2 February 2021 and 12 February 2021. 
Also, Close Brothers have told us that in April 2020 it appears that no action was taken by 
them to remove any adverse information relating to the March 2020 missed payment. They 
said this was because the direct debit was called for prior to the government announcements 
around Covid-19 and because Mr S hadnt contacted them prior to the direct debit being 
cancelled to let them know he wasnt able to make the payment. However, Close Brothers 
have told us that all adverse information including the information surrounding this missed 
payment were requested by them to be removed from Mr Ss credit file. So, the only issue 
remaining for me to consider is the impact Close Brothers error had on Mr S.
Mr S says that he was unable to get credit while the information on his credit file was being 
incorrectly reported. So, Ive considered this, but Ive not seen enough evidence for me to 
conclude that Close Brothers reporting of adverse information on Mr Ss credit file was most 
likely the reason for Mr S directly incurring a loss. From the available evidence, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on his credit file was why he 
couldnt obtain credit. So, I cant say that most likely its Close Brothers action that directly 
caused him a financial detriment.
Mr S also feels that the £150 compensation proposed by the investigator is not enough 
because he feels that it doesnt properly reflect the amount of distress and inconvenience he 
was caused. He mentioned that the phone calls he had to make probably themselves 
amounted to more than the £150, but Mr S has not provided our service with any information 
to substantiate this financial loss. However, Ive taken into consideration everything he told 
us about the impact of Close Brothers mistake had on him. Considering everything, I think Close Brothers errors have caused Mr S distress and inconvenience when he was trying to 
sort this out. And I think that Close Brothers should pay Mr S £150 to fairly reflect the impact 
their errors had on him. 
When considering the fair amount of compensation, Ive also kept in mind that Close 
Brothers retrospectively agreed to remove the adverse information surrounding the March 
2020 missed payment. This was fair considering the circumstances, but I think most likely it 
wasnt unreasonable for Close Brothers to initially record adverse information for that 
payment; given Mr S didnt ask them for help before missing the March 2020 payment. So 
overall, I do think that Close Brothers took a long time to correct Mr Ss credit file, but even if 
the adverse information was corrected quicker, there still wouldve been a period of time 
when Mr S had a missed payment showing on his credit file.
Also, I understand that Close Brothers have removed all adverse information from Mr Ss 
credit file, but, if they have not done so, they should do so as soon as possible, and from all 
the credit reference agencies they report the information to. This is any adverse information 
that wouldve been recorded on Mr Ss credit file including, and during, the period between 
March 2020 and January 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Close Brothers Limited, trading 
as Close Brothers Motor Finance to take the following actions:
1. Pay Mr S £150 compensation; 
2. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the 
Conditional Sale Agreement, including, and during, the period between March 2020 
and January 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman