DRN-3662454
The complaint
Mr Ps representative has complained, on his behalf, about what he considers to have been 
the unprecedented uplift by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in the value of its 
PruFunds, which would indicate that they had previously been undervalued  and that the 
principle of smoothing which should have applied to the funds hadnt been properly 
implemented. Due to a fund switch and movement into a holding fund, Mr P then missed out 
on the uplift, for which he and his representative consider he should be compensated. 
What happened
According to Mr Ps submission to this service, Mr P had a review with his financial adviser 
in July 2021, in which it was agreed that, on the basis of an elevation in Mr Ps risk rating 
from cautious to balanced, he would switch from the PruFund Cautious fund and the 
PruFund RM2 fund into the PruFund Growth fund.
Again, according to the complaint form, Mr P was made aware of the 28 day holding period 
before the switch would complete, and during which he would be unaffected by any unit 
price adjustments (either upwards or downwards) which would be applied to either the 
ceding or recipient funds.
My understanding is that Mr P instructed the fund switch on 27 July 2021, following which Mr 
Ps pension funds were sold 28 days later, then moved into the holding account and were 
then reinvested in the PruFund Growth fund on 25 August 2021.
On the same day, but before the reinvestment of Mr Ps pension funds, Prudential applied a 
Unit Price Reset (UPR) which resulted in an increase in the value of all of the PruFunds. But 
as Mr Ps funds were held in the holding account pending reinvestment at the time, he 
missed out on the uplift.
Mr P and his representative considered that Mr P had been disadvantaged by Prudential 
applying the uplift in this way and that his pension funds should benefit from the UPR. As 
such they complained to Prudential, but Prudential declined to uphold the complaint, saying 
the following in summary:
Once the fund switch had been instructed, the pension funds were then subject to the 
28 day waiting period, and the instruction couldnt be cancelled.
As the funds were in the holding account when the UPR was applied, they werent 
eligible for the UPR.
Mr Ps representative then clarified that Mr P wasnt complaining about the price adjustment 
itself, but that the unprecedented UPR was due to the failing of Prudential to implement its 
smoothing process and provide a fair value for Mr Ps investment.
In response, Prudential said that it had implemented its smoothing policy in line with its 
literature and it reiterated that Mr Ps pension funds werent entitled to receive the UPR. It 
considered that the fund switch terms and conditions were clear. 
It added that any customer who had switched between the PruFunds following the July 2021 
sweep (or reinvestment) date wouldnt have benefited from the process. All those 
customers would have shared the same risk and were therefore treated fairly.
Prudential said that it wouldnt be fair on other policyholders who didnt switch funds, and 
indeed those who did but who hadnt raised a complaint, to enable Mr P to still benefit from 
the UPR.
Dissatisfied with the response, the complaint was then referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, saying the following in summary:
His understanding was that the process of the switch itself wasnt being disputed, but 
he in any case considered that it had been undertaken in line with the terms and 
conditions. He noted that, following the instruction to switch, this was then delayed by 
the allotted 28 day period, with this then happening on 24 August 2021. Mr Ps 
pension funds were then moved out of the holding account on the next reinvestment 
date  25 August 2021. 
The terms and conditions, along with other literature, allowed for a UPR to be applied 
in order to protect the With Profits function  and it was a part of the smoothing 
process. The literature also explained that any funds held in the holding account at 
the time wouldnt be subject to a UPR if it was applied.
The investigator acknowledged the sentiment that the UPR had been applied unfairly 
in Mr Ps case, but he thought that it had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions.
With regard to whether there should be a process in place to safeguard those moving 
between PruFunds at the point a UPR is applied, he thought that the smoothing 
process applied to all investors equally and in line with the terms and conditions. As 
such, he didnt think that Prudential should be required to take any further action.
Mr Ps representative disagreed, however, and requested that it be referred to an 
ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and his representative, but Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
As with the investigator, Ive noted that there appears to be no fundamental issue with the 
switching process itself. Mr Ps representative appears to have been familiar with the 
process and had, according to the complaint form, conveyed this to Mr P.
And so there appears to be no dispute that, from a technical perspective at least, Prudential 
applied its switching process correctly.
The concerns seemingly lie with what Mr P and his representative consider to have been the 
failure of Prudential to properly implement its own smoothing process and which led to what 
theyve described as an unprecedented uplift in the value of funds across the PruFund range. As such, they are of the view that Mr Ps fund would have been undervalued before 
this, and that he should therefore still benefit from the uplift which was applied, even though 
his funds were in the holding account when the UPR occurred.
Ive thought carefully about these arguments, but it would be very difficult for me to conclude 
that Prudential had improperly applied its smoothing process, especially when it has 
confirmed that it was implemented in line with the literature it provided on the matter. Im not 
in a position to fairly or reasonably conclude that the uplift in August 2021 was unwarranted, 
or that this should in some way have been evened out by perhaps smaller increases over 
time before August 2021. The manner in which Prudential makes such decisions is largely a 
matter for its own commercial judgement. Nor am I aware of any concerns that the regulator 
may have about the manner in which Prudential manages its With Profits funds.
But if Mr P or his representative do have concerns about the mechanism by which Prudential 
manages its With Profits fund, this is something which would in any case be better referred 
to the regulator.
Im only able to consider individual complaints, and whilst I understand and acknowledge the 
concerns over how Mr P has been treated here, given that the switch and the UPR have 
been processed in line with the available literature and the terms and conditions, I dont think 
I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Prudential hasnt treated Mr P fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman