DRN-1920879
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the way in which Temple Finance Limited trading as Perfect Home 
(PH) handled issue arising under her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss K has held a number of hire purchase agreements with PH since 2017.
In May 2019 PH contacted Miss K about her payments using her home telephone number. 
Miss K wasnt happy that this number had been used. PH removed the number from her 
account, but Miss K received a further 4 calls because PGH hadnt removed the number 
from its call system. PH apologised to Miss K and removed the number.
In June 2019 Miss K received a text advising her that her account was in arrears. She 
contacted PH who said that arrears text had been due to a system error. It apologised and 
aged to apply a credit to Miss Ks account by way of compensation. Unfortunately, the credit 
wasnt applied, and a further arrears text was sent to Miss K. PH apologised and applied the 
credit.
Miss K subsequently had a family emergency and had to travel abroad for an extended time. 
PH agreed to pause her accounts for 3 weeks. Following this, in September 2019, Miss K 
contacted PH to let it know that her financial circumstances had changed, and her income 
had reduced. PH agreed to review her payments and later, a payment plan was set up. 
Despite this, Miss K received an arrears text.
Miss K complained to PH. In response, it said the arrears text had been sent to her before 
the payment plan had been updated on the system. It apologised and said that no additional 
charges had been added to the account.
Miss K raised a further complaint with PH following a hand back of some of the items she 
had purchased. She was unhappy that the company who collected the items had damaged 
her floor. PH replied and said it wasnt responsible for the actions of third-party companies.
Following this, in late January 2020, Miss K advised PH that she was considering applying 
for an IVA. The IVA was ultimately declined. Miss K says this was because PH didnt support 
it. Miss K brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that PH had dealt with the various 
complaints fairly. He said that although H had made some errors, it had taken steps to 
correct this quickly and had kept her up to date with what was happening with her accounts.
Miss K didnt agree. She felt that the same issues had occurred over and over again and that 
although PH had allowed her to take payments breaks, she didnt think this compensated 
her for all the issues shed experienced since opening the accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, and although Miss K has mentioned that shes experienced issues with the accounts 
since 2017, Im only able to look at those issues which Miss K has complained to PH about 
and which theyve had the opportunity to investigate. So, Im only able to look at issues 
which have happened since May 2019. In addition to these, PH has given this service 
permission to investigate the issues relating to the IVA, even though Miss K didnt raise a 
complaint about this to PH.
In relation to the calls made to Miss Ks home number and the arrears texts, I understand 
that this mustve been distressing for Miss K. I also understand her frustration that this 
happened more than once, especially since PH told Miss K that it had resolved the issue. PH 
has acknowledged that it made an error when the system automatically generated an 
arrears text message. It credited Mis Ks account in recognition of the error, which I think 
was fair.
I can see that Miss K had a difficult time between June 2019 and January 2020. Ive looked 
at how PH responded to this and I can see that it offered a payment break, carried out 
affordability checks and arranged a payment plan. It also agreed a partial hand back of 
items. Id expect a business to respond positively and sympathetically when a customer is 
experiencing financial difficulties and Im satisfied that PH responded reasonably in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Miss K was unhappy about the arrears messages she received during this 
time but I think PH acted promptly to explain what happened and update the account.
In relation to the partial hand back of goods, Im sorry to hear that damage was caused to 
Miss Ks property. However, because it was a third-party company who collected the items, 
Im unable to hold PH responsible for this.
In relation to the IVA, I can see from the information supplied that PH voted against the 
proposal. I understand that it mustve been disappointing for Miss K to have the IVA 
declined. I can see that PH voted in the IVA based on the full amount owed to it under the 
agreements, which was more than the amount which was owed if the partial hand back 
items had been deducted. That said, even if PH had voted based on the reduced amount 
owed to it taking into account the partial hand back, I dont think the IVA wouldve been 
approved in any event, because PHs vote would still have resulted in it being declined.
A creditor can decide whether or not to vote in favour of an IVA. I appreciate that Miss K was 
disappointed when PH didnt support the IVA, but I dont think this would have come as a 
total surprise to her because I can see from the call recordings that PH had made Miss K 
aware that it wasnt going to support the IVA.
In conclusion, and whilst I appreciate that PH made some errors which caused frustration 
and distress to Miss K, Im satisfied that these errors were put right quickly, and appropriate 
steps taken to update Miss Ks account. Im also of the view that the credit applied to Miss 
Ks account was a fair resolution to her complaint about these errors.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman