DRN-3312009
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society defaulted his personal loan account without 
his knowledge.
What happened
Mr P had a personal loan with Nationwide. In 2020 he took a payment holiday from re-
payments. This ended in November that year. 
Towards the end of the payment holiday Nationwide attempted to call Mr P to discuss a re-
write of the loan. This was because, due to the time where no payments were made, larger 
payments would now be required in order to ensure the loan was still paid off within the 
same term. However it was unable to reach Mr P on the number it had, and post had been 
returned from the address it had on file.  
Due to this, all contact was paused with Mr P while Nationwide attempted to trace his 
location. 
However because a rewrite of the loan hadnt been successful, this meant the account fell 
into arrears, as the payments being made werent sufficient.  Nationwide sent a number of 
letters to Mr P in December 2020 and January 2021. And it attempted to call him numerous 
times. However no contact was established.
In February 2021 it sent a letter informing Mr P his account would default. And in May that 
year it was defaulted.
In June 2021 Mr P called Nationwide to update his direct debit details. The advisor told him 
that his account had defaulted and had been moved to a collection agency. However as Mr 
P had made payments each month the advisor was able to recover the account, arrange a 
re-write and arrange to have any adverse information removed from Mr Ps credit file on the 
call. 
Mr P was unhappy that Nationwide had defaulted his account without his knowledge, 
particularly because he continued to make payments each month. He also said he had been 
told by a staff member at Nationwide that letters had been going to an address on his file 
that he had never lived at. He made a complaint. 
Nationwide accepted that it had provided incorrect information in one of its calls with Mr P 
and offered £60 compensation to apologise for this error. However it said as it wasnt able to 
get in touch with Mr P it was right that his account defaulted, as a rewrite of the loan hadnt 
been possible after the payment holiday.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied Nationwide had tried to contact Mr P about the loan but couldnt 
because it didnt have his up to date contact details. He thought £60 was enough to make up 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to first decide if the business in question has got 
something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should do to put things right.
Here, Mr Ps loan account was defaulted as Nationwide were unable to get in touch with him. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided from Nationwide and I can see that it sent four letters 
across December 2020 and January 2021 warning him that his account was in arrears, 
however these were returned due to the address being incorrect. Nationwide has also 
provided contact notes that show it tried to call Mr P on a number of occasions both before 
the payment holiday ended and after.
Further, when an account is due to default, the bank is required to send a notice of default to 
its customer. And I can see Nationwide sent this to the address it had on file. 
So while I appreciate it would have been distressing for Mr P to find out that his account had 
been defaulted without his knowledge, I cant see that Nationwide could have done any 
more. It attempted to contact him using the contact details it had on file, and performed a 
trace to try and determine his current address. But as it wasnt able to discuss the account 
with Mr P, it fell into arrears and defaulted.
When Mr P called in June 2021 and found out the account had defaulted, I appreciate this 
would have been distressing. However during this call the advisor was able to recover the 
debt from the collection agency, take action to remove any adverse information from his 
credit file and carry out a re-work of the loan. So while this would have been distressing to 
learn, the situation was rectified on the same call. So I dont consider the impact to have 
been significant. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ps credit file and can see that the default isnt showing on the 
file. So Im satisfied the matter has been rectified appropriately and there is no lasting 
impact.
I can see that Mr P was given some incorrect information on calls with Nationwide. And that 
it had an incorrect address attached to his file, although it has since confirmed that no 
correspondence was sent to that address. Its offered £60 to apologise for the incorrect 
information and error and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
For these reasons, while I understand it would have been distressing for Mr P to find out his 
account had defaulted, Im satisfied Nationwide did all it could to inform him. And that is it 
has appropriately rectified the situation since. Further its offered £60 compensation to make 
up for incorrect information it gave which I consider fair in the circumstances. So I wont ask 
it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman