DRN-3257680
The complaint
Mr G complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr G was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
9/9/2017 £2,000 24 months £193.95 £4,654.80
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. He felt that Mr Gs credit history 
showed he was in financial difficulty and didnt think that 118 118 Money shouldve 
provided the loan to Mr G.  
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that defaults and a 
county court judgement shown in Mr Gs credit history dated back several years before Mr G 
applied for this loan.  
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint. Id like to reassure 
118 118 Money that Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. If reasonable and proportionate checks werent 
carried out, I need to consider if a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been 
done. If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed 
to think about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to 
lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more 
money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr G about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It said it completed industry standard verification checks to validate 
the information Mr G provided and it checked his credit file to understand his existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. 118 118 Money recorded information 
showing that Mr Gs monthly income was around £1,000 and after allowing for his declared 
monthly outgoings and an amount to cover his existing credit commitments,118 118 Money 
felt the loan monthly repayments shouldve been affordable out of his disposable income.
But despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr G had enough spare cash 
each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 118 118 Money shouldve realised 
that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mr G had declared was 
significantly at odds with what 118 118 Money saw in Mr Gs credit history. And like our 
adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the information it had 
gathered about Mr Gs overall financial situation or the likelihood of him being able to pay its 
loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Mr G based on the information its credit checks revealed.
I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Gs credit history was concerning. A county court 
judgement had been entered on his record less than 12 months before Mr G applied for this 
loan  not two years earlier as 118 118 Money has suggested. And although the defaults 
dated from 2014 and 2015, I think the overall picture was of someone who had struggled to 
manage his financial situation throughout the whole of the previous three years or so. I dont 
think 118 118 Money had any good reason to think that Mr G was on top of his finances 
when he applied for this loan given that it could see that just three months earlier hed taken 
out a small unsecured loan of £65 which he was due to repay at just £6 per month. This 
would have seemed an unnecessarily expensive way to obtain a small amount of credit - 
especially given that 118 118 Money thought that Mr G shouldve had more spare cash than 
this each month and bearing in mind that the monthly repayments for its loan would be 
approximately three times the amount of that loan. 
As well as this, the total credit repayments Mr G needed to make for this loan on top of 
another large unsecured loan he had taken out in 2014 that cost him £197 each month took 
his debt servicing costs to around 40% of his take home pay. 
I think these were clear warning signs that Mr Gs dependency on credit was excessive 
having regard to his income. And I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that his 
credit spending was such a significant proportion of his take home pay each month that, in 
reality, this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him over the loan term.  
I've taken into account that 118 118 Money understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But 118 118 Money didnt have control over how Mr G used the loan as it paid 
the loan balance to him. And it wasnt clear what debt he was planning to consolidate. To my 
mind, I dont think this wouldve seemed a very plausible reason to borrow as this loan 
wasnt enough to repay Mr Gs only other big loan and its difficult to see how using the loan 
to repay his other debt wouldve been worthwhile for Mr G to do. So I think 118 118 Money shouldve realised that all the indications were that this loan would 
add to his overall debt and Mr G would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. And, as mentioned above, it wasnt fair to expect him to be able pay such a 
significant level of his income towards debt repayments for the next 24 months. 118 118 
Money shouldve realised that this wasnt a sustainably affordable position for Mr G and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
As Mr G has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what 118 118 Money did wrong. So, I think 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Mr G hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 118 118 
Money acted unfairly towards Mr G in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr G shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If 118 118 Money has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what 
I have outlined below. If 118 118 Money isnt able to buy back any debt sold, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G.
Whilst its fair that Mr Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman