DRN-4418835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr and Mrs W obtained a quote from a building company  who Ill refer to as 
A  for a garage conversion. They accepted the quote and agreed to pay £6,600 upfront for 
building materials. 
When these materials werent provided, Mr and Mrs W contacted their bank to intervene. 
This prompted A to provide some materials at the value of around £500 and start work. But 
once their bank considered the matter as resolved, A stopped work and no further materials 
were supplied. 
Mr and Mrs W sent A a letter before claim. And they subsequently contacted Fairmead for 
assistance under their legal expenses insurance policy to pursue A in court. 
Fairmead declined the claim, relying on a policy exclusion for any contract disputes relating 
to building works to the home. But Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was fair. They say the 
money theyve lost is what they paid for materials only, so this arises from a contract entered 
into for the sale of goods  which the policy covers. They also say the garage is a free-
standing separate building and therefore not part of the home.
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint about the decision to decline their claim. They were also 
unhappy that when they asked Fairmead to provide a copy of the policy terms, they were 
told it didnt have it. They question how their claim was assessed without this.
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint. It said the contract was entered into for a garage 
conversion, and the materials formed part of that contract  not a separate one for buying 
goods. It also explained that it didnt hold a full copy of Mr and Mrs Ws home insurance 
policy, only the legal expenses section and that this was sent to them. 
Fairmead did acknowledge some delays in processing Mr and Mrs Ws claim, and it offered 
£75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused as a result.
Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so they brought their complaint to our service. But our 
Investigator was satisfied that Fairmead had declined the claim in line with the policy terms 
and hadnt acted unfairly. As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws legal expenses insurance policy say it will cover 
contract disputes defined as your costs and expensesto pursue a legal action directly 
arising from you buying or hiring goods or services for your own private use.
The contract disputes section of cover lists the type of claims that would not be covered, one 
of which is anything to do with building, rebuilding, converting or extending all or part of your 
home. 
Mr and Mrs Ws letter before claim to A sets out the series of events. It says that planning 
permission for the garage conversion was obtained in March 2022 and shortly after, A 
provided two verbal quotes described as one for the outside work only, the cost being circa 
£8,500 for which [A] required an upfront payment of £6,600 for materials, and the 2nd 
including the inside work, for which [A] quoted circa £25,000.
The letter goes on to explain that Mr and Mrs W asked A to complete the outside work only 
and £6,600 was transferred in April. A had said theyd start work later that month and theyd 
be in touch the week before to arrange delivery of a skip and materials. 
From the information available, Im persuaded the contract Mr and Mrs W entered into with A 
was for the outside work of a garage conversion. I cant agree the upfront payment was a 
separate contract for goods only, but rather a down payment towards the overall cost of the 
construction works. This is further supported by the inclusion of a skip, and that when A did 
subsequently return following the banks intervention, they started works and left their tools 
on site. This isnt consistent with a contract solely for providing materials.
In any event, even if I were persuaded that the contract with A was to provide materials only, 
Im not persuaded this alters the outcome of the claim. I say this because the materials were 
for a garage conversion and the policy terms exclude anything to do with building and 
converting works.
Mr and Mrs W argue that the garage doesnt form part of their home and therefore its not 
caught by the exclusion. So Ive looked at how the policy defines home, which is described 
as the private dwelling, garage and domestic outbuildings atthe address stated on your 
policy schedule. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was in accordance with 
the policy terms and not unfair. So it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy that Fairmead said it couldnt provide a copy of 
the policy terms. However, Im satisfied with the explanation provided that it was referring to 
the full copy of the home insurance document. Fairmeads legal expenses claims are dealt 
with by a claims handler who wouldnt have access to the full details of Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy and would only have the legal expenses section, which was provided to them. As 
such, I cant see that theyve offered any loss or detriment here.
Fairmead has offered £75 for delays in its claims handling. If this hasnt been paid and Mr 
and Mrs W wish to accept it, they should contact Fairmead directly to arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman