DRN-2414547
The complaint
Miss L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has continuously reported incorrect 
information on her credit file.
What happened
Since 2018 Miss L has encountered issues with the information Santander is recording 
about her mortgage account. Miss L has raised several complaints about the impact of these 
errors to Santander. This complaint considers its responses from October 2019 and 
February 2020. 
Santander incorrectly reported that there was no arrangement in place on Miss Ls mortgage 
account, and this caused an amber mark to be placed on her credit file. Santander reported 
incorrect information on several occasions. 
When Miss L complained in October 2019 and February 2020, Santander recognised the 
errors and compensated her with payments of £80 and £50 respectively for the complaints. 
Miss L was unhappy with the responses and continued errors, and asked our service to 
consider the complaints.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She felt Santander 
should offer an increased amount of £100 for the complaint addressed in February. She 
recognised that Miss L would have been impacted by the wrong information being on her 
credit file and considered the inconvenience and upset caused to her.
Santander agreed with our investigators recommendations but Miss L didnt. She said 
Santander had caused too many errors which had impacted her life in many ways. Miss L 
says she had to borrow money to pay off the arrears on the account, as that was the only 
way she could guarantee that Santander would accurately report her account information to 
the credit reference agencies. Miss L didnt agree that an additional £100 was adequate to 
compensate her for Santanders actions on her account. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss L has raised several complaints before the two that Im considering 
here. However, Im only considering Santanders responses as dated above. And I wont be 
able to comment on events after the February 2020 complaint response from Santander. If 
Miss L wanted to raise a further complaint to Santander about whats happened since that 
date, a new complaint would have to be raised with them.
My role here is to consider Santanders actions on the complaints that I can look at. Ill 
review what happened and whether the suggested compensation is enough to put things 
right for Miss L. Its not for me to require Santander to change its processes or to punish 
them for their failings; those are matters for the Regulator. 
Santander has a responsibility to provide accurate account information to the credit 
reference agencies it reports to. If the information isnt correct, it means inaccurate 
information is available for any business running a credit check. And this can impact a 
consumers ability to take out further lending. Each time Santander reports wrong 
information, Miss L also must wait weeks for this information to be removed and for her 
credit file to be put right.
Its not in dispute that Santander reported information on Miss Ls credit file incorrectly, 
which led to it upholding these two complaints. Santander has acknowledged failing to show 
there was an arrangement in place for the account, which led to an amber mark being 
placed on Miss Ls credit report.
I can understand how frustrating this would be for Miss L, especially when shes met the 
payment agreement in place and has kept to her side of the arrangement. So I think Miss L 
has been caused unnecessary inconvenience by having to get in touch with Santander 
about the errors. Whilst I havent seen that Miss L had any lending applications affected by 
the incorrect reporting, I do recognise it would have been distressing for her to see false 
information on her credit file. And I understand she borrowed some money to clear the 
arrears. Taking all of this into account I agree that a further payment of £100 would be fair, to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Miss L is concerned that that there will be further errors by Santander regarding her credit 
report. Whilst the account is up to date and the arrears have been repaid, I cant say what 
might happen at a later date. She has also asked that we review everything, rather than take 
a narrow view of this particular complaint. I appreciate it is upsetting if similar problems keep 
happening and she has to make repeated complaints. But I can only consider the issues 
raised in this complaint. If she has concerns about any further issues, these would need to 
be considered separately
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should pay further compensation of £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss L 
compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman