DRN-2792112
The complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National plc) mis-sold 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Ms H in 1994 in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Ms H if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. 
Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case. It seems to me that the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out on our website. 
And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Ms Hs needs?
- Did Santander give Ms H the information she needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy? If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to 
consider whether Ms H is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done 
something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any 
problems with the sale? 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms H says she was put under pressure to buy the policy, and that Santander didnt give her 
a proper choice. She says she was told she had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage she 
wanted. Ive noted everything Ms H has said. 
Santander hasnt provided much documentation from the point of sale which isnt surprising, 
given the time thats passed, and its similar to other cases Ive seen. But its provided a copy 
of the mortgage application form Ms H completed and the PPI application form.
Ms H points out that the mortgage application form was pre-populated with a tick indicating 
that PPI was required. I accept thats the case, but I can see that the same section of the 
form said:
If you are not taking an endowment mortgage will you be taking out a Mortgage Protection 
Policy?
The Yes box was ticked, and there was a No box that couldve been ticked if Ms H hadnt 
wanted the policy. There are also handwritten notes on the form that appear to say:
Policy being completed to be returned ASAP.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Ms H and Santander 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
But from what Ive seen, I think the options on the mortgage application form were clear 
enough to make Ms H aware she had a choice about buying the PPI. Without anything else 
to support what shes told me, I havent been able to safely conclude that Santander didnt 
make her aware that the policy was optional. I think its unlikely that Santander wouldve 
added the cover to Ms Hs account if she hadnt agreed to buy it.
Santander accepts that it advised Ms H to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Ms H was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
- Ms H says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident, and that she was a member of her employers pension 
scheme. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Hs occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy would mean Ms H could use her occupational benefits to pay for 
other expenses. And I cant be sure that any ill health pension benefits wouldve been 
paid on the same terms as the PPI policy as Ms H suggests. 
So I think Ms H would have had some use for the policy despite her existing 
arrangements.
- Ms H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms H before 
she agreed to buy it. But Ms H took out the policy knowing she would have to pay 
something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I think it unlikely Ms H would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Ms H wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced. So I think it unlikely Ms 
H would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, 
I think she would still have taken out the policy.Ms H says she continued to pay the policy premiums after her property was rented out. She 
says she wouldnt have been eligible to claim on the policy while it was being rented, so she 
considers Santander should refund the premiums she paid. Santander says it is willing to 
consider making a refund, subject to Ms H providing evidence that she couldnt have 
claimed.
If Ms H wants to pursue a refund of premiums, I consider she will need to raise this as a new 
complaint with Santander. If she is unhappy with the banks response, she can then refer the 
matter to this service for further consideration.
But in connection with the mis-sale complaint, Im not persuaded there are any grounds on 
which the complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman