DRN-2519248
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) unfairly and without good reason 
withdrew his overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr H says Co-op removed his overdraft facility in September 2020. He says Co-op hasnt 
provided a reason and says there wasnt a reason to withdraw it. Mr H says he has not used 
the facility but would like it as a buffer. He would like the facility reinstated or compensation 
for whats taken place.
Co-op says it gave Mr H notice in August 2020 that it was removing the overdraft facility. It 
says its entitled to do so in line with agreed terms and conditions and also says it told Mr H 
that there may have been adverse information on his credit file.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Co-op was entitled to remove the overdraft facility in line with the 
overdraft agreement and hadnt made a mistake.
Mr H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions and the overdraft agreement. Im satisfied 
Mr H would have agreed to those terms and conditions when the account was opened. 
Those terms and conditions and agreement make clear that Co-op is entitled to review an 
overdraft facility and if necessary, withdraw it.
Im satisfied that is what took place here, that Co-op reviewed Mr Hs account and decided, 
as its entitled, to withdraw the overdraft facility. I dont think Co-op is obliged to tell Mr H the 
exact reason for that or that it has to consider Mr Hs account usage. I can see Co-op told Mr 
H that he may have had adverse information on his credit file. I also think Co-op is entitled to 
make a commercial decision to take such decisions as this and its not our role to tell it to 
whom it provides a credit facility.
Overall, Im satisfied that Co-op hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly by removing Mr Hs 
overdraft facility. I have explained that I think Co-op is entitled to do so and it doesnt matter 
how Mr H has run his account. And I dont think Co-op is obliged to hold a discussion with Mr 
H prior to making such a decision and I find it did give Mr H the appropriate notice.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman