DRN-3325791
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund payments made to a company he 
considers fraudulent. He also complains about the service provided to him. Hed like the 
money returned to him.
What happened
Mr F holds a current account with Barclays. In May 2020 he began to deposit money with a 
gambling website based abroad, using his Barclays debit card.
Mr F had difficulty withdrawing his winnings from the website. He investigated the merchant 
further and came to the conclusion that hes fallen victim to a scam. He contacted Barclays 
and tried to get his money back.
Barclays initially told him to wait for seven days, and if the merchant didnt get back to him, 
they could raise a dispute over the payments. Mr F had no further response from the 
merchant, so got in touch with Barclays again.
Barclays requested more information from Mr F to raise a chargeback claim. But there were 
multiple issues with how Barclays handled the claim  they sent multiple letters to Mr F 
requesting he sign a disclaimer, and a duplicate dispute was raised. Mr F complained about 
the number of letters he received, and Barclays agreed to pay him £75 compensation. 
Barclays temporarily credited Mr Fs account with the amount in dispute while the 
chargeback was raised. They later received evidence from the merchant to defend the claim, 
which they shared with Mr F. They declined to pursue the chargeback claim further. But they 
accepted that the claim had taken a long time to resolve, so paid Mr F a further £50. The 
temporary credit was removed from Mr Fs account, leaving the balance overdrawn.
Mr F referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators investigated what 
happened. They thought that Barclays hadnt fully grasped what Mr F was complaining about 
and hadnt asked for the right information to pursue the chargeback claim. They felt the 
service was confusing and involved a lot of duplication of generic requests. But they also felt 
on the balance of probabilities it was unlikely the chargeback claim could have succeeded, 
as Mr F wasnt able to supply evidence of any winnings or attempts to make withdrawals 
being denied. But they accepted Barclays had caused Mr F a degree of inconvenience and 
distress and suggested an additional £100 compensation.
Barclays agreed to this. Mr F disagreed saying he didnt think she should repay the amount 
in dispute. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr F authorised the payments to the gambling merchant. As they were 
paid for using Mr Fs debit card details the starting position is Barclays wouldnt be liable for 
refunding them, even if they were to a fraudulent service. Mr F doesnt have an automatic 
right to a refund to the amounts spent.
What Barclays have done is raise a chargeback. Its important to bear in mind that 
chargeback isnt an automatic consumer right, rather its a mechanism by which a bank can 
attempt to recover money for their consumer. The rules when a chargeback can be raised, 
the time limits involved and what evidence is required, are generally laid out by the card 
scheme  which in this case is VISA.
I can see that Barclays raised a chargeback for all of Mr Fs transactions to the gambling 
merchant, and Im satisfied that was the right thing to do in the circumstances. Because they 
were all raised individually, it seems this is the reason Mr F received dozens of letters for the 
dispute. I can see how Mr F would be concerned by this. 
The letters Mr F received seemed very generic, and likely part of an automated process. 
They asked him for information on what he ordered and what he received  which isnt a 
relevant question in the context of his dispute. I can see why this would lead to his 
confusion, especially as he had been quite clear what had happened when reporting the 
issue to Barclays. I dont think the communication to Mr F was very clear on how the 
chargeback process worked.
Because of the time limits involved Barclays should have been more live to the situation and 
asked Mr F for more relevant information at the earliest opportunity, such as the terms of the 
gambling merchant, proof that he had winnings in the account to withdraw, and any 
correspondence where the merchant had refused to pay out winnings. This is the type of 
evidence Id generally expect to see to evidence Mr Fs side of the story, and for Barclays to 
consider when deciding whether to take the chargeback to VISA arbitration.
However, Mr F hasnt been able to supply this information to our service. And while at the 
time he did submit evidence of poor reviews and bad practices from other customers of this 
merchant at the time, this isnt specific to his dispute about withdrawing funds with the 
merchant. I think its unlikely that even if Barclays asked for the correct information that he 
would have been able to provide it. 
It follows that its very unlikely the chargeback would have succeeded at arbitration. So, 
despite Barclays not being the most helpful with the chargeback process I wouldnt therefore 
expect Barclays to refund Mr F for the money paid to the gambling merchant.
But I can see how Mr F would be left distressed by Barclays handling of his chargeback 
claim. I also note that while the letters about the dispute say the money has been 
temporarily refunded they dont make it clear the money will be removed afterwards if the 
dispute is unsuccessful. Likewise, the letters confirming the dispute was unsuccessful say 
the money cant be refunded, but they dont go on to confirm the temporary credits will be 
removed. 
While Mr F ought reasonably to have been aware this was a possibility, it would have been 
fairer for Barclays to be very clear about this with him. This has left an amount Mr F owes 
Barclays. Because these are transactions he authorised, and the chargeback didnt succeed, 
its reasonable for Barclays to ask him to repay this. 
Ultimately, in addition to the problems Barclays have already accepted with Mr Fs claim  
that the number of letters sent was unnecessary and that the claim took too long  Barclays 
could have engaged with Mr F more to explain what information hed need to provide and what would happen through the chargeback process. Barclays are the expert here, while Mr 
F was in a difficult situation and believed himself to be the victim of a scam. I would have 
expected more empathy and help to be provided, and Im satisfied this led to further distress 
to Mr F.
When thinking about the complaint as a whole, I would say Barclays should pay Mr F a 
further £100 to the £125 already paid to reflect the impact of this on him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr F a further £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman