DRN-3838156
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs H opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in March 2011. Her account limit was 
initially low - £250. Over the course of the next few years Mrs Hs account limit was 
increased 12 times until, in February 2020, it was £4,150.
Mrs H says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Shop Direct should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her.
 
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs H  and when it 
increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Hs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mrs H was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased 
in October 2012, Shop Direct didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so.
 
Our adjudicator said that Shop Direct should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs H.
 
Shop Direct didnt completely agree. It said that Mrs H didnt miss any payments and that the 
management of her account was generally good until much later in the relationship, 
indicating that the lending was affordable. It said that the increase in October 2012 was 
modest at £100. It did, however, agree that from July 2019 Ms H was experiencing financial 
difficulties and it agreed to pay back interest and charges from that point. 
Mrs H didnt agree with this outcome; she thought her complaint ought to have been fully 
upheld.
As neither party agreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Hs complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Hs income and expenditure. There may even come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
When Mrs H opened her account in March 2011, Shop Direct has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did.  Shop Direct has provided a copy of 
what it found out at the time. It shows that Mrs H had no outstanding credit commitments 
elsewhere. It showed that she had a County Court Judgment made against her about eight 
years prior and that she had arrears on lending in five out of the preceding 24 months. Given 
that the checks showed that Mrs H didnt have any lending at all at the time of her 
application its likely that those missed payments werent recent.
While it may have been better if Shop Direct had asked Mrs H about her income, I think 
given the other information it had and the low credit limit offered I think Shop Directs lending 
decision was fair.
Mrs Hs credit limit was increased by £100 in March 2012  a year after Mrs H took out the 
account. There was no material change in the results of the checks Shop Direct did and Mrs 
H had managed her account well up to that point. There was no information to suggest that 
Mrs H couldnt afford the increased credit limit.
In May 2012 Mrs Hs credit limit was more than doubled to £850 and Mrs H had bought 
goods under Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) terms. Although Mrs H wasnt yet paying interest 
on this amount it was something that Shop Direct needed to be mindful of when providing 
more credit. At this point, I think it would have been proportionate for Shop Direct to make 
more checks on Mrs Hs financial situation. I agree with our adjudicator that it ought to have 
checked her income.
 While I cant know for sure what Shop Direct would have seen if it checked Mrs Hs income, 
I think its reasonable to place significant weight on the information provided by Mrs H in the 
form of her bank statements, which show an income of between £830 and £970 a month. 
Taking into account her credit history and the way shed managed the account up until then, 
along with how much shed need to pay each month if she used all of the new credit limit I 
havent seen anything to suggest that even if Shop Direct had checked Mrs Hs income it 
would have made a different decision about lending more to Mrs H, or that Mrs H wouldnt 
have been able to manage the credit. 
In October 2012 Shop Direct increased Mrs Hs credit limit again by £100 to £950. Mrs H 
had held the account for over 18 months and Shop Direct intended to increase her credit 
limit for the third time but it still didnt have any detailed information about Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances. I think at this point it ought to have checked her income and expenditure to 
establish whether the increased credit was affordable.
 
Again, I cant know for sure how Shop Direct might have chosen to achieve this, but in the 
absence of any further information I think its reasonable to rely on the evidence in the form 
of Mrs Hs bank statements from the months leading up to the increase to show what it might 
have seen if it had checked. Having reviewed these, it is clear that Mrs Hs essential expenditure was very close to  or exceeded  her income each month. So, I dont think Mrs 
H was in a position to sustainably repay any increase in her credit limit.
Shop Direct doesnt agree with this position. It points out that Mrs H wasnt using all of her 
credit limit and that Mrs H didnt get into financial difficulties until many years later. Both of 
these points are true, but its clear that when Mrs H did spend beyond her £850 credit limit 
(which she didnt do until a number of years later) that she began to get into difficulties. 
Shop Direct also says that the increase was modest at £100 and to find out about Mrs Hs 
circumstances for such a small increase would have been disproportionate. But Shop Direct 
needed to look holistically at the lending it was providing to Mrs H. Just because each 
incremental increase was relatively small, doesnt mean that it made it affordable when the 
whole of Mrs Hs circumstances were taken into account. Although Mrs H had seemingly 
managed her credit with Shop Direct well up to that point didnt mean it was affordable in the 
future or that she was managing all of her credit in a sustainable way.
Shop Direct has also said that it had recorded Mrs Hs income in 2019 as £17,500 and an 
income and expenditure assessment completed in 2021 provided a disposable income of 
£725. I havent seen how this was assessed, but I dont think its relevant to Mrs Hs 
circumstances in October 2012. Similarly, while Shop Direct says that Mrs Hs external data 
showed no derogatory information, it hasnt provided evidence of that data. And just because 
Mrs H wasnt in financial difficulty at that point doesnt mean that the credit was affordable in 
the long term. 
So, on balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Shop Direct did reasonable 
or proportionate checks when it increased Mrs Hs credit limit to £950 in October 2012 and 
so I think it acted unfairly and Mrs H lost out as a result.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs Hs circumstances changed significantly in the 
following years, so I am satisfied that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided her with the 
seven later increases, either.
Having said this, this outcome makes little or no material difference to the outcome that 
Shop Direct sought (to agree to uphold Mrs Hs complaint from July 2019) because Mrs H 
didnt spend above £850 (the limit which I have said was reasonable) or incur any late 
payment charges on balances over £850 until December 2019.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Mrs H as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from October 2012 onwards, therefore Shop Direct should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after October 2012 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, Shop Direct can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £850  this being the 
credit limit before October 2012.
Shop Direct should work out how much Mrs H would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs H made since October 2012 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs H 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.If after all adjustments have been made Mrs H no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from October 2012. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange and 
affordable payment plan with Mrs H for the outstanding amount. If any debt was sold 
to a third party, Shop Direct should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the third-
party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mrs H had cleared the 
balance, any adverse information as a result of the unfair lending should be removed 
from the credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs H a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part and direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading 
as Very, to pay compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman