DRN-1534681
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National at the time, mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002, Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in a meeting at a branch. The
policy covered them on a 75:25 basis for up to twelve months if they were unable to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs F but, having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs F say that the PPI was attached without their knowledge. Theyve also said that 
they felt pressurised into taking the policy and that they were told it had to be taken to get 
their mortgage.
This sale took place a long time ago. So, perhaps, its not that surprising that not all 
the documentation likely to have been completed at the time is still available. Businesses 
arent required to keep these sorts of records for such lengthy periods. In these 
circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the 
limited information available to me.
Although there isnt a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs PPI application form available, Im aware that 
one would need to have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And 
from seeing such application forms for other consumers from around this time, together with 
this Services knowledge of the normal sales process that Santander used, I think it would 
have been clear from this application that the PPI was optional and separate from their 
mortgage application. Mr and Mrs F would also have needed to complete a separate direct 
debit mandate for the insurer to be able to collect the monthly PPI premiums. These 
premiums would then have been shown on their banking statements.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application form and theres no mention of PPI being a 
requirement of the mortgage on this form. And Mr and Mrs F received a welcome letter 
shortly after the sale which also made it clear that the PPI cover was optional. I think Mr and Mrs F would have queried why theyd been sent this if they hadnt previously agreed 
to take PPI.
Mr and Mrs Fs PPI policy covered them on a 75:25 basis. And this also suggests to me 
that PPI was discussed with them and that they decided that this split of benefits from the 
policy best suited their circumstances at the time.
Whilst I accept that its possible that the Santander representative they spoke to did unduly 
pressurise and mislead Mr and Mrs F in the way they have said, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to conclude this is what is most likely to have happened, based only on what they say 
they remember about the sale now. From what Ive seen, I think its most likely that 
Mr and Mrs F actively decided to take the PPI knowing they could choose not to. But I can 
understand why they may not be able to recall this now, as this sale took place a long time 
ago.
Santander says that this was an advised PPI sale to Mr and Mrs F. And Ive taken this to be 
the case because this means that Santander had to ensure that it was suitable for them. I 
cant now know all the steps Santander took to ensure that the policy was suitable. But from 
what I know of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it 
wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs F appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions and limitations. 
 
Mr and Mrs F say that they had other means of making their mortgage repayments if 
one of them couldnt work. These included an entitlement to generous sick pay and 
access to their savings. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other 
means. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones home is 
potentially at risk if the loan repayments cant be met. So I still think that they would 
have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs F enough information for them to decide if 
they wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave them 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I still think theyd have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at 
an affordable cost. Mr and Mrs F say that Santander didnt tell them that they could go to 
another provider to obtain PPI cover, potentially at a lower cost. But Santander wasnt 
obliged to inform Mr and Mrs F about other providers of this insurance.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs F have lost out by anything that Santander may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs F have said about paying for the PPI in responding to 
the adjudicators view. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint. 
And Ive noted that Mr and Mrs F have made two significant claims on the policy whilst it was in force. So it appears that they were able to obtain some benefit from the cover it gave 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman