DRN-3834446
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt deal fairly with his chargeback request, and 
provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr P booked a return flight with a third party, that I will call T. However, he cancelled it, as 
his trip was no longer going ahead. He asked T for a refund, but after not hearing back for 14 
days, he raised a chargeback request with his bank, Monzo. 
However, Mr P has explained that Monzo repeatedly said it couldnt proceed, because Mr P 
hadnt sent proof that T had agreed to refund him. It was asking for this, because on the 
dispute form hed completed, Mr P had ticked the box regarding not receiving an agreed 
refund. Hes said he did this because there wasnt an option to select the merchant has not 
responded to you within 14 days. Although he explained this to Monzo, it still didnt proceed 
with the chargeback request. It requested evidence that T had agreed to a refund/evidence 
that Mr P was entitled to one (in the form of Ts terms and conditions).
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought Monzo had been entitled to ask for more 
information, to maximise the likelihood of the chargeback being successful.
As Mr P disagreed, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
It does appear that there was some confusion surrounding why Mr P was raising a 
chargeback request  which led to a request for evidence that T had agreed to a refund. And 
I can see that Mr P understandably found this frustrating. Monzo has apologised for this, 
which I think is reasonable. However, I can also see that Monzo requested that Mr P provide 
T's terms and conditions. These would have shown whether a refund was due in the event of 
a cancellation. But I have no evidence that Mr P provided these. 
I think its reasonable, in these circumstances, for Monzo not to have proceeded with the 
chargeback request, until it had further information. This is because there would have been 
very little chance of the request succeeding, without supporting information.
I understand that Mr P has now received a refund, after taking court action against T. I 
appreciate this would have been frustrating for him. But I do not consider that Monzo is 
responsible for this, because, as explained, Im satisfied it acted reasonably.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman