DRN-3855554
The complaint
Mr D complains that CPN Investment Management LLP requested the withdrawal of cash 
from his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) despite being aware that the value of the 
SIPP had fallen. Mr D considers that CPNs adviser had a duty of care to check whether Mr 
D still wanted to go ahead with the withdrawal before proceeding with it. He believes CPNs 
actions have caused him to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr D met with CPNs adviser. During the meeting, Mr D explained that he 
had some credit card debt that he wanted to pay-off. He wanted to withdraw cash from his 
existing SIPP, which held around £25,000, in a tax-efficient way. CPNs adviser recorded 
that Mr D would draw down £10,000 in the 2020/21 tax year and the remaining balance 
when the new tax year began in April 2021.
£10,000 was drawn down as planned in March 2020. The adviser subsequently sent a
further request to the SIPP provider for a withdrawal of the second amount of £10,000 in the
new tax year. This was drawn down in May 2020. However, Mr D only received around
£7,000, rather than the £10,000 hed been expecting. Thats because the value of Mr Ds
SIPP fund fell during the period of market volatility caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr D was unhappy with CPNs actions. He initially complained that the adviser agreed to
move all of Mr Ds SIPP funds to cash immediately after the February 2020 meeting, in order
to protect the fund value. Mr D also felt that before proceeding with the second withdrawal, 
the adviser ought to have checked that Mr D was still happy to go ahead. He asked us to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator considered the available evidence from the time of the advisers meeting
with Mr D and the initial income drawdown form which had been sent to the SIPP provider.
He didnt think the evidence indicated that the adviser recommended selling the underlying
SIPP investments and holding the fund as cash. He was persuaded that Mr D and the
adviser agreed to make withdrawals of £10,000 over different tax years. And he didnt think 
CPN could be held responsible for the value of Mr Ds fund dropping between February and
May 2020.
Mr D disagreed. He acknowledged that he agreed to withdraw the SIPP funds over separate 
tax years. However, he provided an email from the SIPP provider. This showed that 
following the submission of the second income drawdown form, which requested a further 
withdrawal of £10,000, the SIPP provider contacted the adviser. It let CPN know that there 
were insufficient funds in Mr Ds wrapper to facilitate an income payment of £10,000. CPNs
adviser responded to the SIPP provider to say that Mr D wanted to withdraw the remaining
value of his fund and to proceed on that basis.
But the adviser hadnt checked with Mr D whether he wanted to go ahead despite the lower
fund value. And Mr D maintained that if the adviser had done so, he definitely would have
decided against proceeding with the second draw down. He said he had access to other
savings, so he hadnt needed the money. And while he acknowledged the value of the fund
couldve fallen, it conversely couldve risen too.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter. He felt that given the email from the SIPP provider,
CPN ought to have let Mr D know that he wouldnt be receiving the £10,000 cash he was
expecting. But he still wasnt persuaded that it was most likely Mr D wouldve decided
against the second withdrawal if hed been aware of the funds fall in value. So he didnt
think Mr D had shown hed suffered a financial loss as a result of this failure on CPNs part.
But he did think that CPN had caused Mr D to suffer a loss of expectation and he thought it
would be reasonable for CPN to compensate him for the upset that caused him. He
therefore recommended that CPN should pay Mr D compensation of £250.
CPN accepted the investigators recommendation without prejudice to its position.
Mr D disagreed and stated again that he definitely wouldnt have gone ahead with the May
2020 drawdown had CPN told him that his fund had fallen in value.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2022. In it, I explained the reasons why I 
thought the fair outcome to this complaint was for CPN to pay Mr D £250 compensation. I 
said:
Mr D initially complained to CPN and to us that CPNs adviser told him, in February 2020,
that following the meeting, they would sell the investments held in Mr Ds SIPP with the
proceeds to be held in cash. Ill consider this first.
Currently, I think the contemporaneous evidence from around the time of the meeting does
indicate that its more likely than not that CPN and Mr D agreed to sell £10,000 worth of
SIPP assets each tax year. Ill explore this further.
Its unfortunate that CPN doesnt have a copy of the fact-find it carried out with Mr D, or a
letter explaining his recommendations. The available contemporaneous evidence of the
meeting and follow-up is the advisers meeting notes and the amend income drawdown form
Mr D signed in March 2020.
Ive looked carefully at the advisers notes from the meeting which say:
After discussing various ways of implementing the withdrawal, we agreed to sell down
£10,000.00 in the 2020/2021 tax year and then the remaining balanced (sic) when the new
tax year commenced in April 2021.
The advisers notes state that the adviser and Mr D agreed that this was the most tax-
efficient way to withdraw the funds from Mr Ds SIPP. And the notes also state that the
adviser:
Would organise for the first tranche of £10,000.00 to be sold to cash and withdrawn and that
the balance would be moved and withdrawn in the new tax year.
CPN says its standard process of withdrawal of funds across tax years was as follows:
Sell enough assets to cover the costs of the initial withdrawal;
Process the withdrawal;
Wait until the new tax year;
Sell enough assets to cover the costs of the second withdrawal.
I note that the amend income drawdown form which was sent to the SIPP provider statesthat Mr D wanted to make an ad-hoc withdrawal of £10,000. This form was signed by Mr D
and dated 9 March 2020.
Based on the advisers notes of the meeting and the withdrawal request which was made a
short time later, I find its more likely than not that Mr D and the adviser did agree that
£10,000 of investments would be sold in each tax year and drawn down as cash. On
balance, I think the evidence indicates that CPN acted in line with the actions Mr D and the
adviser had agreed. I havent seen enough evidence to demonstrate that its more likely than
not that the adviser and Mr D agreed that CPN would sell all of Mr Ds investments
immediately after the meeting and hold them in a cash account.
Ive also considered whether CPN treated Mr D in a fair and reasonable way when it knew
that his fund value had dropped so significantly.
Theres no dispute that the first transfer, in the 2020/21 tax year, completed as Mr D had
expected. However, after the adviser submitted the second amend income drawdown form
to the SIPP provider for a further draw down of £10,000, the provider got in touch with CPNs
adviser on 24 April 2020 to let them know that Mr Ds SIPP didnt hold enough funds to carry
out such a payment. Mr D indicated to the adviser, only two and half months before, that he
thought his pension fund held around £25,000. Clearly then, there was a fairly significant
shortfall between what Mr D was expecting to receive and what he actually was going to
receive. So I think it wouldve been reasonable for the adviser to call Mr D to explain the
situation to him and give him an opportunity to decide whether or not he wanted to go ahead
with the second withdrawal. Especially given the prevailing market conditions at that time.
However, this didnt happen. Instead, CPNs adviser told the SIPP provider to proceed with a
drawdown for the remaining fund value. On balance, I dont think that this was a fair or
reasonable way for CPN to have approached this. The change in fund value was sufficiently
significant that CPN ought to have considered that it had a bearing on the earlier agreement
with Mr D. So should have verified with Mr D prior to proceeding that he wanted to go ahead
with the drawdown.
So Ive gone on to think about whether CPNs failure to call Mr D at this point caused
him a financial loss. In considering this, Ive thought, amongst other things, about the
relevant regulators Principles for Business. In particular, Ive considered Principle 2, which
requires financial businesses to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence.
And Principle 6, which requires firms to pay due regard to the interests of their customers
and to treat them fairly. Ive considered too the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook
which provides at 2.1.1.1 that a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Mr D says that had the adviser called him, he definitely wouldnt have withdrawn the rest of
the fund. He says he didnt need the money, as he had access to other savings and there
was the possibility that the fund values could increase.
Ive thought about this very carefully. As the investigator said, theres no way of knowing for
certain what Mr D wouldve done had CPNs adviser let him know that thered been a clear
drop in his fund value. Its possible, given the impact that Covid-19 had on the investment
markets around that time, that Mr D mightve wished to withdraw his remaining funds to
protect them from any further fall in value. Alternatively, as Mr D says, he might have
decided against taking funds he didnt need and waited for the market to recover. So I have
to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
CPN sent us copies of emails between Mr D and its adviser in late May 2020, following the
second withdrawal. On 28 May 2020, the adviser said:Just to confirm if you want the funds to go back in to the pension we can do that at no cost
to youand this will in effect put you back where you were before the withdrawal.
There was obviously a breakdown in communication over the second withdrawal but my
understanding was that you wanted the funds as soon as possible into the new tax year. I
appreciate now that in hindsight you would have liked a phone call and obviously if I could
wind the clock back I would have made that call. That said we can get you back into pretty
much the same position as you were in by reinvesting the funds back into the pension
schemes as detailed in my email of last week. The sooner we can do this the sooner the
funds will be back in the market.
It seems to me then that the adviser offered Mr D the option to reinvest the £7,000 hed
drawn down from the SIPP at no cost, which he said would effectively put Mr D in the
position he wouldve been before the withdrawal. In my view, this wouldve given Mr D the
chance to reinvest the funds which had been in the SIPP prior to the second withdrawal and
wait for the market to recover from its volatility. However, theres no evidence that Mr D
chose to take up this course of action, which wouldve effectively unwound the second
withdrawal and allowed him to wait and see whether the fund value increased. Instead, it
appears that he chose to keep the funds hed withdrawn rather than reinvest them.
Given that Mr D decided against the opportunity to reverse the payment so soon after it had
been made, I dont think I can reasonably or safely conclude that Mr D wouldve taken a
different course of action if hed been told in advance of the fall in the fund value. And so I
dont plan to direct CPN to pay Mr D any difference between his fund value in February 2020
and the date it was disinvested.
I went on to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for CPN to pay Mr D an award for 
distress and inconvenience. I felt the impact of the shock of learning about the fall in the 
value of Mr Ds fund could have been reduced had the adviser told him in advance about the 
reduction in the fund value and checked whether he wished to proceed with the drawdown. 
This wouldve given Mr D time to consider his options. And he wouldnt have been put to the 
trouble and inconvenience of needing to contact the adviser to query why he hadnt been 
informed in advance about what had happened. So I concluded it was right that CPN 
compensated Mr D for the impact of the additional trouble and inconvenience its failure to 
contact him ahead of the drawdown caused him.
Having considered everything, I found that the £250 compensation which CPN had
agreed to pay was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And so I intended to direct
CPN to pay that amount to Mr D.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
CPN didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr D disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response:
He was perplexed by CPNs offer of £250 compensation, as he didnt think this 
reflected his inconvenience nor its mismanagement of his financial affairs;
It appeared that the adviser had misled him both in his communications but had also 
failed to apply the advice he had charged fees for. Thats because the adviser had 
charged ongoing fees, but had placed the responsibility of making drawdown and 
investment decisions at Mr Ds door;There is a reasonable expectation that the adviser should have contacted him about 
the portfolio given the Covid-19 pandemic;
The adviser had said the reduction in payment value was due to a tax miscalculation 
by the SIPP provider, but at that point, he would already have given the instruction to 
exhaust the portfolio. CPN hadnt disputed this and I hadnt commented on it. So he 
wanted to know what actions would be taken against the adviser and CPN in regard 
to its conduct;
The meeting in February 2020 set an expectation that he would receive two 
payments of £10,000 across two tax years and the balance across the third. But even 
before the first drawdown, there had been fluctuations in the stock market. So the 
adviser shouldve been aware of this before the first drawdown and the potential 
impact on the investment strategy;
He was under the assumption all of the investments would be liquidated in cash, so 
he questioned why he would have realised that theyd dropped in value as a result of 
stock market falls;
Neither the adviser nor CPN had been in contact with him to discuss the impact of or 
make any adjustment for Covid-19;
He felt that the adviser should have discussed the implications of withdrawing the 
second tranche of cash with him. But instead, the adviser had chosen to lie;
At the time of the second drawdown, Mr D hadnt needed the money. So he 
questioned why hed have accepted the payment and crystallised losses of between 
20 and 25%;
CPN hadnt acted with due care and attention. Given the adviser had taken the view 
that Mr Ds pension fund could further decrease if not encashed at the time of the 
second drawdown, this approach shouldve been applied in February 2020;
He expected to be paid the difference between what hed expected to receive and 
what he had been paid; a refund of advice charges and a higher award of 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I still think CPNs offer to pay him £250 
compensation is a fair offer to resolve this complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr D that while Ive summarised his detailed response to my 
provisional decision, Ive carefully considered all hes said. In this decision though, I havent 
commented on each point hes made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
Second, Mr D has questioned what actions will be taken against CPN and its adviser in 
relation to their conduct. Were not the industry regulator and we have no power to fine or 
punish the businesses we cover. Our role, in essence, is to consider individual complaints 
brought by consumers to decide whether a financial business has done something wrong 
and if so, whether it needs to take any action to put things right. In assessing complaints, we 
consider, amongst other things, the regulators rules and guidance. As Ive explained, Ive 
taken these considerations into account when deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Moreover, Mr D has now raised further concerns which do not appear to have previously 
been raised with CPN, such as its handling of his investment portfolio ahead of the first 
drawdown. Hes referred to the fluctuation in stock market values before the impact of Covid-
19 was felt by the market. And he now complains about CPNs failure to contact him ahead of the first drawdown to discuss whether he wished to maintain his original investment and 
drawdown strategy. Under our rules, a financial business must be given a chance to 
investigate and respond to a complaint before we can look into it. So Mr D will need to raise 
a separate complaint with CPN about this particular issue before we can potentially help with 
it. 
It's clear Mr D still considers that the adviser had agreed to move all of his pension funds to 
cash immediately, rather than only encashing the funds which were due to be drawn down 
during the first tax year. But I still think the contemporaneous evidence from the time of the 
meeting shows its most likely that Mr D and the adviser agreed to sell £10,000 of assets in 
each tax year, so that cash could be drawn down. This is in line with CPNs best execution 
process. And Ive still seen no persuasive evidence that the adviser told Mr D that hed 
liquidate all of Mr Ds assets in February 2020 and hold the total as cash. So it remains the 
case that I dont think the adviser had any responsibility to sell all of Mr Ds assets at the 
outset.
Ive explained above why I think it wouldve been reasonable for CPNs adviser to call Mr D 
once he learned from the SIPP provider that Mr Ds SIPP didnt hold enough funds to 
complete the full second drawdown. I havent changed my view on this point. I appreciate Mr 
D says CPNs adviser gave him a different explanation for the shortfall amount, but I dont 
think this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint overall. Thats because while 
Mr D may have been frustrated by potential misinformation, ultimately, his fund was worth 
less than hed expected  irrespective of the reason. And its still the case that I think the 
adviser ought to have called Mr D to check that he wanted to go ahead with the second 
drawdown given the fall in his fund value, regardless of a potential tax miscalculation or fall 
in fund value. But its common ground that this didnt happen.
Mr D feels strongly that fair compensation for this failing should be for CPN to pay the 
difference between what he expected to receive and what he actually received. I disagree. 
Mr D was only entitled to draw down the cash value of the assets he held at the time they 
were sold. Unfortunately, there had been a significant fall in asset value in the weeks 
between the initial agreement and the second drawdown. So even if the adviser had called 
Mr D at this point, the fact remains that hed have had to choose whether or not to go ahead 
with the withdrawal at the lower value or to allow the funds to remain invested in his SIPP.
And as Ive set out, I can see that on 26 May 2020, the adviser did give Mr D the choice to 
reinvest the money taken in the second drawdown into the same pension schemes itd been 
in previously. The adviser said this would put Mr D back into pretty much the same position 
as hed been in before. At this point, Mr D had the choice to reinvest his drawn-down funds 
into the same funds and place him in a broadly similar financial position as hed been in prior 
to the second draw-down. This wouldve mitigated Mr Ds position and the funds wouldve 
had the potential to recover their value, thereby mitigating the losses.
But it still appears that Mr D didnt choose to take up this option and instead chose to keep 
the funds disinvested. I accept Mr D may have had access to other funds at the time and 
didnt need to access his SIPP. But based on Mr Ds decision to keep the drawdown monies 
disinvested, Im still not persuaded that Mr D wouldve taken a different course of action 
even if the adviser had called him in advance.
I appreciate Mr D says he isnt a sophisticated investor. But I do think the adviser gave Mr D 
a clear option to reinvest the money in an understandable way. I dont think he was placing 
all of the responsibility on Mr D to make investment decisions  I think he was simply giving 
Mr D a reasonable option to try and recover the value of the funds if he wished to do so.
Overall, I dont find it would be fair or reasonable to require CPN to refund Mr Ds fees as a result of its failing here. And I remain satisfied that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation 
to reflect the trouble and upset I think Mr D was likely caused by CPNs failure to contact him 
ahead of the second drawdown. So it follows that Im directing CPN to pay this amount to Mr 
D. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold Mr Ds complaint.
I direct CPN Investment Management LLP to pay Mr D £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman