DRN-3754949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim theyve 
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
Fairmead outsources a separate business to handle and administer claims on Mr and Mrs 
Js legal expenses insurance policy. Where I refer to Fairmead within this decision, this 
includes this representative acting on its behalf. 
While the policy is held jointly, almost all of the contact with Fairmead has been from Mr J. 
Where I refer in my decision to Mr J, this should be taken to include Mrs J where relevant.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J hold a legal expenses insurance policy with Fairmead. Since 2018, theyve 
been in a dispute with a neighbour over a boundary and alleged trespass. They made a 
claim on the policy seeking to take legal action against the neighbour.
Fairmead agreed cover for the claim and solicitors were appointed to act on Mr and Mrs Js 
behalf. Since 2018, Mr and Mrs J have made a number of complaints to both our service and 
the solicitors (who Ill refer to as Firm D) about the conduct of the claim and the solicitors.
Our service previously issued a final decision (which wasnt accepted by Mr and Mrs J) 
which said in part that it would only consider the conduct of Fairmead up to October 2021. 
Any matters after that date would be subject of a further complaint. Mr and Mrs J made a 
new complaint to Fairmead, and then our service. 
Mr and Mrs J complained that their request to change solicitors hadnt been agreed by 
Fairmead. Our investigator thought Fairmeads actions in response to this request were 
reasonable but that there had been a lack of communication and delays to the request. She 
said Fairmead should pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs J.
Fairmead didnt accept this. It referred to our previous decision which said it had handled the 
claim appropriately and Mr and Mrs J had received the benefit of the insurance policy during 
the time when their request was being considered and reviewed. 
Mr and Mrs J also disagreed with our investigator. They said the poor handling of the claim 
had had a very significant impact on them, including their daughter being unable to attend 
her first choice of school.
As neither party agreed with our investigator, Mr and Mrs Js complaint has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to clarify is the extent of this decision. Im going to decide whether 
Fairmead handled the claim appropriately between October 2021 (when the previous 
complaint was referred to our service) and June 2022 (when Fairmead issued its final 
response to Mr and Mrs Js most recent complaint). This means I wont be looking at the 
claim in its entirety from 2018 onwards, or making an assessment of Fairmeads actions 
before October 2021.  
I also wont be commenting on how Firm D has acted. They are solicitors, acting on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs J, with their costs paid by Fairmead. Our service doesnt have jurisdiction over 
Firm D. Mr and Mrs J have made complaints to Firm D and Im aware theyve been directed 
to the Legal Ombudsman if theyre unhappy with the responses to those complaints.
An ombudsman at our service made a previous final decision which addressed both of those 
points. He explicitly referred to a subsequent complaint which had been made, but not 
responded to, at the time of his decision. Thats the complaint Im considering here. I cannot, 
and will not, be addressing points previously looked into again in this decision. 
In October 2021, I can see from notes of contact between Fairmead and Mr J that he was 
deeply unhappy with the way Firm D had handled the claim and wanted to appoint 
alternative solicitors. In March 2022, Fairmead agreed it would appoint different solicitors, 
subject to a report being received from Firm D confirming that Mr and Mrs Js claim enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. In May 2022 that report was received but the conclusion of 
Firm D was that the claim no longer enjoyed such prospects.
Fairmead has said it will obtain a counsels opinion into whether Mr and Mrs Js claim enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success, and provide counsel with the evidence which has been 
obtained to date and has been relied on by Firm D in its assessment. If that assessment is 
positive, it will agree to the appointment of new solicitors to take on the claim. 
Im satisfied thats a reasonable response. Theres no benefit in appointing, and Fairmead 
covering the costs of, new solicitors if the claim doesnt have a reasonable chance of being 
successful. Its a condition of the policy that the claim has such prospects for cover to be in 
place on an ongoing basis. The claim had previously been assessed as having such 
prospects, but on the basis of recent evidence obtained, Firm D concluded it no longer did. 
It's reasonable for an insurer to withdraw cover (and cease funding legal proceedings) in the 
event that the prospects of success reduce to less than 51%. I think Fairmeads position that 
it will seek a counsels opinion on the prospects of success is fair. It isnt withdrawing cover 
but offering for an independent review of the prospects of success, as its well known to both 
parties that Mr and Mrs J dont believe theyd get fair treatment from Firm D. 
From October 2021 onwards, Fairmead was in contact with Firm D about the progress of the 
claim and the current situation with the dispute between Mr and Mrs J and their neighbour. 
There were several occasions on which Fairmead chased Firm D for updates and 
information.
These continued from March 2022 when Fairmead had agreed, in principle, to appoint 
alternative solicitors. To do so, it said it needed a claims management report (CMR) from 
Firm D, detailing the prospects of success and other information. That information was 
chased on multiple occasions until it was received in May 2022. That resulted in the 
prospects assessment and actions Ive previously outlined.
I do acknowledge that Fairmead chased Firm D a number of times before requested 
information was received. I also note from correspondence between Firm D and Mr J that 
during that time, Firm D was continuing to act on the case and obtain evidence relating to 
the dispute, so Mr and Mrs J were receiving the benefit of the policy (as Fairmead covered the costs related to those actions) at a time when it now appears the prospects of success 
had reduced (and so cover for those costs wouldnt ordinarily have been in place). The CMR 
which was eventually completed placed a great deal of weight on a report which was in Firm 
Ds possession in October 2021. So it seems that the knowledge of the diminished prospects 
of success could have been known about in, or shortly after, October 2021. Mr and Mrs J 
continued to receive the benefit of the insurance policy (by having Firm Ds costs paid) well 
beyond that date.
Fairmead cant dispute it knew Mr and Mrs J were greatly dissatisfied with the way Firm D 
was handling the case, and also Fairmeads general handling of the claim. Despite this, it 
seems that contact was only made with Firm D to chase updates, information or the CMR 
were only made after Mr J contacted Fairmead to ask for an update or express his 
dissatisfaction. It seems that dates when Firm D said it would update Fairmead, or provide 
information, would pass but thered be no action taken by Fairmead to chase what was 
required. 
Ive noted a number of occasions on which Mr J was told hed receive an update by a certain 
date, but this date would pass without any update coming from Fairmead (or being received 
by Fairmead from Firm D) and no contact would be made with Mr J until he next contacted it 
to chase an update. The handling of the claim seems to have been reactive, rather than pro-
active. There was little managing of Mr and Mrs Js expectations, and when their 
expectations werent met, no pro-active update or explanation was offered by Fairmead. 
I dont seek to diminish or under-estimate the distress felt by Mr and Mrs J. Theyve detailed 
the impact its had on them, and their daughters education in particular. It seems to me 
however that this arises in the main because the boundary dispute and alleged trespass 
remains unresolved, and their unhappiness with the way Firm D handled their case. Its also 
clear that their dissatisfaction and the impact these things have had on them covers the 
period before October 2021.
Nevertheless, I think Fairmead, in the period between October 2021 and June 2022 could 
have done better. They have a duty to handle claims promptly and effectively. As Ive said, 
the contacting and chasing of Firm D doesnt appear to have happened pro-actively. Mr J 
was therefore inconvenienced by needing to chase updates after deadlines hed been given 
had passed without any contact, and they were upset by being unsure what Fairmead was 
doing to progress the claim.
In order to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor handling of the 
claim between October 2021 and June 2022, I think Fairmead should pay £250 
compensation to Mr and Mrs J. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount for the impact on Mr 
and Mrs J during that period caused by the delays and lack of communication.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Fairmead 
Insurance Limited must pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs J. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and 
Mrs J accept our decision. If it does not, it must simple interest on this amount at a rate of 
8% from that date until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 Ben Williams
Ombudsman