DRN-1514621
 
The complaint
Miss G says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss G says the lending was unaffordable and the repayments caused her to 
have to borrow further which led her into a cycle of debt.              
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Sunny provided to Miss G between October 
and December 2015. Miss Gs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 27/10/2015 13/11/2015 6 £200.00
2 28/10/2015 05/11/2015 6 £150.00
3 02/11/2015 19/04/2016 6 £400.00
4 05/11/2015 13/11/2015 6 £250.00
5 16/11/2015 19/04/2016 6 £350.00
6 21/11/2015 01/12/2015 6 £200.00
7 02/12/2015 12/01/2016 6 £250.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Gs complaint and thought loans six and seven should 
have been given as it looked as though Miss G was struggling to re-pay her loans and was 
becoming persistently reliant upon short-term credit. 
Sunny disagreed. It said the loan repayments were a low proportion of Miss Gs income, 
there was no outstanding balance and Miss G had repaid some of her borrowing early which 
would contradict the adjudicators opinion that Miss G was struggling. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss G didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to five shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss G had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Like the adjudicator, I think that by loan six, because of her borrowing behaviour, there was 
an indication that Miss G was having problems managing her money. I say this because 
Miss G had concurrent borrowing, early repayment of loans and quite uptake of further 
borrowing. At loan three, Miss G borrowed the highest amount of money so far and loans one and two 
were still running. Sunny has told us that its short-term credit product allows its customers 
the flexibility to take up to four loans at any one time, and that this allows customers to 
manage their money. But I note that three days after loan three was taken loan two was 
repaid and then loan one repaid just over a week later. This could suggest Miss G was 
taking further borrowing to keep up with repayments or pay off current lending.
And I also note that Miss G was repaying some of her loans well before the agreed term 
date. Sunny has said this is an indication of someone managing their money. But I think it 
can equally be a sign that someone is juggling their finances in order to make ends meet 
which is what Miss G has told us she was doing. 
This continued - at loan five Miss G applied for more credit three days after loan four was 
repaid and it was for a larger amount. And by the time Miss G applied for loan six I think 
there was enough of a pattern of borrowing for Sunny to have seen she wasnt managing her 
finances and it wasnt fair to carry on lending to her. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss G was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss G had taken out seven loans within two months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss G was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Gs first loan was for £200 and loan seven was for £250, so there had been no 
reduction in the amount being borrowed.  At this point Sunny ought to have known 
that Miss G was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but 
to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan seven 
was taken out in less than two months after Miss Gs first. And it was for a larger 
amount. Miss G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Miss G lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing at loan seven 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Miss G borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans six and seven and 
Sunny should put things right.
Putting things rightrefund all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan six from Miss Gs credit file;
the number of loans taken at loan seven means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So, all entries about loan seven should be removed from Miss Gs credit 
file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Gs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman