DRN-4499779
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) is holding her liable for a fixed sum loan that was used to buy a 
phone she says she didnt receive. 
What happened
Mrs M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in November 2022 to buy a new 
phone from a supplier Ill call S. The phone cost around £1,200 and was due to be paid 
back over two years. Mrs M says the phone wasnt inside the package she collected. 
In summary, S said:
The phone was delivered to a drop off point on 15 December 2022. 
Mrs M contacted it the same day to say it wasnt at the drop off point. 
Mrs M called back the same day to say shed picked it up. 
The phone had a clean path showing no signs of damage to the box. 
Checks were carried out at the warehouse. It stands over all warehouse checks. 
Mrs M took the package home and said the box was empty. 
It asked for photos and a police report. 
It waited two weeks and Mrs M didnt supply the necessary information, so the 
investigation was closed. 
Mrs M supplied photos of the packaging in February 2023 and didnt report signs of 
tampering. 
The pickup behaviour was strange, and that Mrs M didnt let it know about not being 
able to collect the package initially. If she had done it could have checked the CCTV. 
Mrs M said:
She received a notification the order was ready to collect from a pickup point. When 
she went to collect it she was told it hadnt been delivered. She spoke to S the same 
day and it told her the order had been delivered so she went back to pick it up on 15 
December 2022. 
She reported the issue to the police on 16 December 2022 and sent requested 
photos to S the same day. 
She got the crime report stamped by the police as per Ss request and sent this to S. 
She asked for a replacement phone. 
She supplied supporting information to BPF in January and February 2023. 
Shes sent the supporting information to S three times. 
Mrs M put in a claim and a complaint with BPF. In summary, BPF said:
The claim wasnt upheld based on S having carried out a review and saying Mrs M 
wasnt eligible for a replacement or refund. 
Details of Ss investigation are restricted so it couldnt supply any further information. 
It would forward Mrs Ms concerns to S. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with the rejection of the claim or how her complaint was dealt with, so 
she asked the Financial Ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
Our investigator said, in summary:
Hes looked at how BPF handled a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. 
Its difficult to prove whether an item has been received or not. 
Mrs M had said the outer packaging didnt look like itd been tampered with so, on 
balance, she received it in the same condition it was in when it was posted from the 
warehouse. 
The weight of the package was 440g which seemed in line with what hed expect for 
a phone. 
He didnt think BPF acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary, she said our investigator hadnt considered that the courier 
could have taken the device. She reiterated she was initially told at the pickup point the 
parcel wasnt there which wasnt true. As things werent resolved, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
I reviewed the file and felt like more information would be helpful. I arranged for our 
investigator to contact BPF to say, in summary:
Was there any evidence that S could supply to determine exactly when Mrs M was 
notified the order was ready; when she contacted S to say it wasnt there; and when 
it was collected. 
I noted Ss timeline didnt match up to what wed seen from Mrs M. Mrs M was very 
responsive and supplied S information it asked for promptly. Whereas S said she 
took two weeks to respond which is why it closed its investigation. This wasnt right 
so I asked for further comments on this. 
Had there been any other instances of customers alleging goods werent received 
through this drop off point, or this courier? 
Did S contact the courier as part of its investigation?
Could S explain what a clean path showing no signs of damage meant?
Could S explain a bit more about what checks were carried out at the warehouse?
Could S share information about what happened to the phone? And was there any 
evidence Mrs M still had it?
Could S or BPF give us any more details about having Mrs M as a customer? Was 
this the first phone shed bought in this way for example.
Was there any evidence Mrs M said the package hadnt been tampered with?
BPF responded to say it contacted S who told it the case was over a year old and it was 
closed from its perspective. The decision was final, so thered be no further response. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mrs M and BPF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this.
Mrs M bought the phone using a regulated fixed sum loan agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes BPF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
There are implied terms under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) that unless agreed 
otherwise the contract included a term that the trader must deliver the goods to the 
consumer. And that, unless the consumer arranges their own carrier, the goods remain at 
the traders risk until they come into the physical possession of the consumer or someone 
identified by the consumer to take possession. Consumers can treat contracts at an end if 
goods arent delivered. 
Based on the evidence submitted, Im never going to know exactly what happened to the 
phone. So where the evidence is incomplete, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. 
I think Mrs Ms account of what happened seems consistent and credible. She acted in the 
way Id have expected someone to act when finding out an expensive item wasnt in the 
package. She contacted S straight away. She went to the police to get a crime report. She 
returned to the police to get her report stamped on Ss request. She sent photos to S 
promptly. And shes been responsive to requests from all parties from what Ive seen. 
BPF also acted fairly by speaking to S. Im of course mindful that BPF isnt the supplier here, 
and that its reliant on Ss willingness to share information with it. 
The problem in this case, from what I can see is that some of Ss responses dont quite tally 
up with what Mrs M has shown us. Whats key is that S seems to say Mrs M was slow 
providing evidence and that it closed its investigation as a result of that, but thats not backed 
up from what Ive seen. It looks like she was very quick to respond, and she didnt take two 
weeks as S has said. Mrs M said she sent the same information to S several times. S also 
said if shed called in time it could have checked the pickup point CCTV. Based on what Ive 
seen I think it had the opportunity to do that. It hasnt shown us Mrs M didnt contact it when 
she first thought the parcel wasnt there. It hasnt explained whether its received any other 
complaints of a similar nature. Its not shared any history of Mrs M as a customer, nor where 
its said she gave it details of the condition of the packaging, or where it asked her for that 
information. Its also decided not to share any information about what actually happened to 
the phone.  
As already mentioned, Im not looking at a complaint against S, Im considering how BPF 
handled the claim. But I think there were a few inconsistencies that BPF could have looked 
into with S. Its not inconceivable to think the phone could have been removed, if not at the 
warehouse, then at some point during the delivery process. Ive not been supplied 
supporting evidence of why thats not possible. If there was further evidence, it may have 
shown something that either supported Mrs Ms claims, or ultimately found inconsistencies in 
what she said. I also think it would have been prudent to have retained supporting 
information given there was a dispute raised. So I think theres been an opportunity missed.
All things considered, based on the evidence Ive been supplied, Im intending to reach the 
conclusion that, on balance, Mrs M didnt receive the phone. So I think its fair the contract is 
treated as at an end, and shes reimbursed anything paid for under the agreement. 
Im not intending to award any compensation on top of this. Ultimately the main cause of the 
issue here is the alleged thief.  BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mrs M responded to say she was happy 
with the decision and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. Seeing as though neither party had anything further to 
add I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To resolve the complaint Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Refund Mrs M anything paid towards the agreement before the claim was declined 
with 8% simple annual interest added from the date BPF declined the claim to the 
date of settlement. For any payments made after the claim outcome, these should be 
refunded with 8% simple annual interest added from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement*. 
Remove the agreement and any associated entries from Mrs Ms credit file.
*If BPF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman