DRN-1483900
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited has rejected a claim he made against 
his motor insurance policy, after he told them his car had been stolen.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr K said the day after he returned from a family holiday he found his car had 
been stolen. He reported the theft to his insurer and made a crime report to the police.
He said Admiral didnt keep him updated about his claim. And he was left without a car, for 
several months as Admiral didnt supply him with a courtesy car. And that this was 
problematic as his wife didnt drive, and he had a young family. Mr K also said there was 
unnecessary delay caused by Admiral saying they didnt get the police report.
Admiral said the key data information showed a different version of events than those 
reported by Mr K about his car. So, they hadnt accepted his car had been stolen.
Mr K wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Admiral had showed the cars key, that had remained in Mr Ks 
possession had been used. And the car had been driven with this key at a time that Mr K 
said the car was no longer with him as it had been stolen. She said that Admirals policy was 
clear that a courtesy car wouldnt be provided if the claim was about a stolen car. But she did 
think there had been a delay in Admiral telling Mr K the outcome of his claim. For the trouble 
this had caused she said Admiral should pay Mr K £50.  
Mr K didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
When there are different versions of whats happened, as in this case, I need to make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
When Mr K reported his car missing to Admiral, they asked him to provide details of what 
had happened. And to send them the keys he had for his car. Mr K sent the two keys he 
had, which he kept on the same keyring. Ill call these Key A and Key B.
Mr K said he last drove his car on 12 April 2019 between 8.00 and 9.00 pm, when he went to 
get a takeaway. Ive seen the data for Key B, this shows the key was last used on 12 April 
2019 at 9.45pm. So, Im satisfied this is the key Mr K used when he drove his car on 12 April 
2019. Mr K said he went on holiday the next day, returning 21 April 2019. He didnt check on his 
car on his return. And said he only discovered the car wasnt where he had left it parked until 
22 April 2019, at around 7.30pm when he went to get a takeaway.
 The data for Key A, shows the key was used on 22 April 2019 at 5.45pm. Mr K has also 
said he has been asked to pay a parking ticket, which was applied to the car on 22 April 
2019, at 10am.
The mileage shown when Key B was last used was 8663 miles. And for when Key A was 
last used, 8706. This means that the car had been driven a distance of 43 miles.
Mr K has said that he thinks he has been a victim of relay theft. This works on cars where 
you can start and enter a car without the use of a key. The thiefs use equipment to capture 
the keys signal and the car is tricked into thinking the wireless remote is next to it. But Mr K 
said he hadnt parked his car outside his house but in a nearby street. And the scope of this 
equipment is limited to the proximity of the keys wireless connection. And given the distance 
from where Mr K parked his car to his home address, I think its less likely that this 
happened. 
Mr Ks keys were left in his home while he was away on holiday. And remained in his 
possession after his return from holiday. Mr K said hed wanted to use his car at 7.30pm the 
day after he returned. This was the same day Key A shows the car being used at 5.45pm. I 
think its unlikely that a thief would use a key to drive a car away only to return the key to its 
owner a short time later.
And with both Key A and Key B still being in Mr Ks possession I dont think Admiral have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching the conclusion they have.
Mr K was unhappy he wasnt provided with a courtesy car while his claim was being 
investigated. But his motor insurance policy says a courtesy car would only be provided 
when the car is being repaired. And is clear one isnt supplied when the claim is for a stolen 
car.
Mr K made his claim in April 2019 but wasnt told the outcome until August 2019. Admiral 
said they requested the police report in May 2019 but didnt get it until September 2019. But 
I can see they told Mr K his claim was rejected in August 2019. As this was based on the 
information they had from the key data, and they had this information in April 2019. I agree 
with our investigator that there was some delay in informing Mr K. And Admiral should pay 
him £50 for the trouble and upset this caused.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr 
K £50 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman