DRN-4352468
The complaint
Mr D and Mr L complain about the way Chubb European Group SE handled a claim under 
their purchase protection insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr D and Mr L purchased a wedding ring on each of their accounts, which benefited 
from purchase protection insurance. After leaving the store, the rings were stolen from Mr Ls 
backpack. They made a claim under their insurance.
Chubb instructed an investigation service  who Ill refer to as C  to conduct interviews 
with Mr D and Mr L.
Following these interviews, Mr D and Mr L raised a complaint over the treatment Mr L 
received from the interviewer which they believed was racist, homophobic, and sexist. They 
were also concerned about the delays in progressing their claim.  
Chubb said there had been no delays. And that the professionalism of the interviewer was 
not within its remit but that it had passed these concerns to C to respond. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr D and Mr L brought the following complaint points to our service:
There were delays in progressing the claim.
Chubb failed to log the complaint about C and respond accordingly.
The interviewers treatment of Mr L was discriminatory. 
Mr L was excluded from the claims process, despite him being the main victim of the 
theft.
Our Investigator didnt think theyd been any delays in handling the claim, but she did think 
Chubb had failed to log the complaint about Cs conduct and investigate the concerns 
raised. She recommended it pay Mr D and Mr L compensation of £150 to put things right 
which both sides accepted. 
She asked Chubb to investigate the concerns about C and it issued a final response saying 
it didnt uphold the complaint. But on further discussions with us, Chubb subsequently made 
an offer of £150 compensation which our Investigator felt was fair in the circumstances.
Mr D and Mr L didnt agree. They say this has caused them a great deal of distress which 
has exacerbated Mr Ls depression. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. To 
be clear, Im looking solely at the complaint points in relation to the treatment of Mr L, as the 
other complaint points have been responded to separately and compensation accepted.
Having done so, I thought Chubb needed to do more to put things right and I issued the 
following provisional decision.
Provisional decision
Firstly, I must clarify that this service is unable to make a finding on whether The Equality Act 
2010 has been breached. This is because this service is an informal alternative to the courts, 
and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the 
Act. 
However, I can consider whether Chubb has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to 
do that I will take several things, including relevant law, into consideration. And in this case, 
that includes the Equality Act 2010.
Ive been provided with video footage of the interviews conducted with both Mr D and Mr L. 
Having reviewed this evidence, Im inclined to agree that the behaviour of Mr Ls interviewer 
was, at times, unfair and unreasonable. Ill explain why.
When the interview starts, the interviewer is surprised by Mr Ls gender. He says he was 
expecting a young lady and queries whether Mr L is engaged to Mr D  which Mr L confirms 
is correct. The interviewer responds, I do apologise, thats just my stereotyping there and 
what with the name.
Chubb says that Cs paperwork said Miss L which was an error their end. I havent seen 
any evidence to demonstrate this, but Mr Ds interviewer also referred to Mr L as she, so 
theres clearly been some misunderstanding here  whether a typing error or an incorrect 
assumption. Regardless, the interviewers comment about Mr Ls name comes across as if 
hes implying its a feminine name  a name he goes on to mispronounce and makes no 
attempt to correct when Mr L tells him hes saying it wrong.
The interviewer asks Mr L where hes originally from and proceeds to share a story about a 
previous partner he had who spoke Mandarin, which he refers to as an alien language.
I appreciate there may not have been an intention to offend here. But intent is irrelevant, its 
the outcome of these words and actions that matter. Its worth noting that this all takes place 
within the first five to ten minutes of the interview, and Im sure this wouldnt have put Mr L at 
ease.
Later in the call when Mr L is describing the situation outside the store, he says there was a 
protest going on for either lockdown or Black Lives Matter (BLM). On hearing BLM, the 
interviewer says, no comment. The manner and context in which this was said was 
extremely unprofessional and completely unnecessary. I think this micro aggression shows a 
clear bias. 
Mr D and Mr L say the tone of the interview was concerning. And I agree. Whilst I appreciate 
the line of questioning was reasonable given the circumstances of the claim, there is a stark 
contrast between the way in which Mr D was interviewed compared to Mr L. The interview 
with Mr D was more professional, establishing the facts of the case and Mr D was clearly at 
ease. Whereas Mr Ls interview came across more like an interrogation, with the same 
questions repeated multiple times as if to catch Mr L out. It was clear Mr L was struggling 
with some of his answers as a result of English not being his first language and overall, there 
were times when it was uncomfortable to watch.
Unfortunately, the footage I have of Mr Ls interview cuts out ten minutes before the end 
around the time where Mr L is being asked about the condition of his backpack. I note Mr D 
and Mr Ls complaint says the interviewer made comments about what is and isnt normal 
behaviour when it comes to the values of items theyd wear / keep on them  insinuating 
they arent normal. I didnt hear this on the interview, but that may be on the part I cant access. In light of the interview as a whole, Im inclined to believe what Mr D and Mr L have 
told me. But if Chubb disagree, it will need to provide me with the remaining footage.
Mr D and Mr L say that Mr L was subsequently left out of the whole process with all 
correspondence being addressed to Mr D after the interview took place. I can see that both 
final response letters have been addressed to Mr D only. I understand that these claims are 
under two separate policies so it may be that the complaint has only been logged against Mr 
Ds case as he was the one who raised it. But given it involves both policyholders, I wouldve 
expected Chubb to have acted more inclusively here.
Overall, I can understand why Mr D and Mr L felt it necessary to raise a complaint. Whilst I 
cant make a finding of discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 as explained above, Im 
not persuaded Mr L was treated in a fair and reasonable manner. And Im not persuaded 
that £150 goes far enough to put things right given the impact this wouldve had. I can 
understand why Mr L felt singled out because of his race and sexuality, given some of the 
things said and Ive no doubt this wouldve been very upsetting for both of them. 
So I intend to uphold this complaint against Chubb, who are responsible for the actions of its 
agents, and direct it to pay compensation of £450 to Mr D and Mr L. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D and Mr L have responded to my provisional decision with further points, which Ive 
summarised below:
Chubb initially refused to take responsibility for this complaint until this service 
directed it to. Chubbs focus was solely to distance itself from C.
 
When the complaint was addressed, Chubbs focus was on what litigation 
proceedings Mr D and Mr L intended to bring, rather than trying to take any steps 
(monetary or otherwise) to put things right.
Whilst theyve been able to raise this complaint and persevere for several years to 
get to this point, many customers may not have the means to do so.
Chubb didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Chubb failed to take responsibility for this complaint initially. This point was 
addressed in the initial complaint that this service dealt with separately. Mr D and Mr L were 
compensated for that, and we directed Chubb to investigate and respond to the concerns 
about C. So Im satisfied this part of the complaint has already been addressed.
I also agree that Chubb didnt do enough to put things right for Mr D and Mr L when it did 
address this complaint  which is why Ive upheld it. Ive considered the impact this has had 
on Mr D and Mr L, and made an award based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Whilst I understand Mr D and Mr Ls concerns for other customers in similar circumstances, 
our service is looking solely at the individual complaint brought to us. And the award Im 
making is to put things right for them.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Chubb European Group 
SE to pay Mr D and Mr L compensation of £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman