DRN-1681116
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in August 2005. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the 
type of application that would have been completed at a branch. So I think Mr C applied for 
the credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit card application signed by Mr C in 2005. It is a 
poor copy and difficult to read. But I can see that Mr C has signed the application form twice 
and a box has been marked with a tick. From experience I am aware that in August 2005 
Mr C would have been required to sign separately and tick a box to add PPI to his account. 
So the fact a box has been ticked and he has signed the application twice makes me think 
it is most likely he agreed to PPI being added to his account.
In addition Halifax has shown us a copy of a letter addressed to Mr C in August 2005 
confirming he had taken PPI and containing a policy schedule. And the PPI premiums 
would have appeared on Mr Cs monthly statements as purchases, so if Mr C had not 
wanted or requested PPI Id expect him to have questioned the premiums at an early stage.
Overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so many years.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. He didnt 
have any existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. And he seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Mr C could not recall if he would have been entitled to sick pay from his employer. It is 
likely he would have been entitled to some sick pay. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C couldnt work which is likely to have been longer than 
Mr C would receive full sick pay. And the benefit would be paid in addition to any sick 
pay. So I still think Mr C would find the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly if he 
was unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr C had lost his job meaning he could 
have used any redundancy pay for other living costs. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr 
C off taking out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Mr C back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman