DRN-3697916
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wrongly restricted its 
bank account and that meant that an important credit wasnt received.
What happened
D says it was contacted by RBS about the need to update its business profile. It says it 
completed this on 27 October 2021 and didnt hear anything further. But its account was 
restricted on 17 January 2022. And other methods than sending a letter ought to have been 
taken to warn it this was going to happen. A payment from a client for over £25,000 that had 
been sent after the account was restricted wasnt received and it was having difficulty tracing 
the payment and getting the money paid again.
RBS said it hadnt made any mistake. It was required to ensure it keep information about all 
its customers up to date to meet legal and regulatory requirements. And it said that letters 
were sent about this to D setting out the consequences of not responding. RBS appreciated 
that staff at D were working at home due to the COVID 19 restrictions but stated that it still 
needed to maintain its process and that options from D to deal with post would be 
reasonable. RBS added that its review team had tried to call D but hadnt got any answer 
and didnt have the correct number or email details. Ds relationship manager did contact D 
when the account was restricted as she had contact details. It said that it had no record of D 
registering its profile online until 24 January 2022 and that the restrictions were removed the 
next day. It apologised for the experience D had when contacting its business line team. 
That team wasnt involved in the review but could have passed the query on. It refunded 
unpaid fees of £48 during the period. When it submitted its busines file it said that the credit 
was sent back, and the sender should be able to reconcile this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that RBS had 
provided copies of its letters of 15 October and 15 November 2021 and 13 January 2022 
about this review. D had clearly seen the first letter as it said it had taken action about it. But 
this online information it said it provided hadnt been registered based on what RBS had 
recorded. She thought that RBS had made a reasonable attempt to contact D about this and 
wasnt required to do so by phone or email. She said that businesses were returning to the 
workplace at this time. The account restrictions were removed around 24 hours after the 
information had been received on 24 January 2022. It had since tried to assist D in tracing 
the credit.
D didnt agree. The director representing it said that he thought RBS had lied about not 
having the contact details but that we still insisted it acted correctly. As a result, he 
questioned whether RBS had sent the further letters as D had no record of them. There had 
been an instruction to work from home. He said that D hadnt received fair and reasonable 
treatment and that wed been misguided by RBS. He was concerned that we hadnt seen all 
the attachments to emails hed sent to this service and which included further information 
about the missing payment. There had also been a concern that wed not allowed D 
sufficient time to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that D now has had sufficient opportunity to respond and provide any further 
comments or evidence since our investigator issued a view about this complaint.
I first want to observe that I understand that requirements and guidelines around the 
pandemic were varying over this period. In any event as the director of D says that staff were 
working at home in the relevant period then Ive no reason to go behind that.
D accepts that the first letter about this requirement was received and Ive also no reason to 
doubt that the further letters Ive seen copies of were sent by RBS. I also note that RBS has 
provided this service with a screen shot showing the contact details available to the review 
team. There was no email address on there and from what I can see the only number was 
the landline for D that its provided to this service. But in addition, I dont have any specific 
record of that team calling D on any date. It is clear that the business relationship manager 
for D had mobile phone numbers for the directors of D and an email address. And was in 
contact with D when the account had been restricted but wasnt involved in the review. While 
it would have been helpful if the review team had all the contact details for D I agree that 
there wasnt a requirement for it to contact D in other ways. And that even when the staff of 
D were working at home then the period from the date of the letters to the date of the 
potential account restriction could reasonably be thought sufficient for D to make 
arrangements to access post.
D was as I say aware of the requirement and I dont doubt tried to fulfil it. There is no 
evidence that anything was received by RBS in October 2021. It would have been very 
helpful if D had become aware of that. Because when it did it took steps that day for the 
profile to be uploaded. And so, the restrictions were taken off and D says it could access the 
account from 26 January 2022.
Im afraid I agree that it was a matter for RBS to decide how to meet regulatory and legal 
requirements and take action to restrict an account if these werent met. So, I cant say it 
was wrong then that a credit from a client seemed to have been rejected. And I cant, 
reasonably consider RBS responsible for the impact of this for D that its described.
I can see from Ds account statement that this payment related to a regular client who made 
successful payments to the account both before and after the restriction. RBS told D that the 
payment would have been returned and to contact that client and D had provided evidence it 
did so. I consider that any subsequent problems and complaint points D has had with the 
process of following this up with RBS and the result ought fairly to be considered as part of a 
new complaint when that matter is resolved if D wants to pursue it. Thats because RBS 
should have the opportunity to issue a complaint response including about what its back 
office and payments staff were doing.
As far as this complaint is concerned for the reasons Ive given I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require RBS to do anything more. I can appreciate that there was good reason to 
think that this account restriction ought to have been preventable. Unfortunately, it wasnt 
prevented, and I dont consider I can hold RBS responsible for that and the consequences 
here as Ive explained. I know the director of D will remain dissatisfied with this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman