DRN-2317225
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc, trading as Swiftcover, (AXA) didnt pay him the 
market value of his car after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy AXA told him he couldnt keep his car
What happened
Mr M was involved in a no-fault accident in August 2019. AXA decided it was uneconomical 
to repair his car and wrote it off as a category N. AXAs engineer said the car had a market 
value of £3,000, and AXA said they would deduct 20% from this value because the car had 
been written-off previously, in 2014. 
AXA told Mr M he couldnt keep the car after they had written it off.
Mr M says he bought the car in the summer of 2018 for about £3,000 and didnt know it had 
been previously written off. He says he asked the seller if it had been written off and the 
seller said it hadnt.
When AXA provided a final response to Mr Ms complaints, they acknowledged they had 
incorrectly told him that he couldnt keep the car after the decision to write it off. They paid 
£500 to Mr M to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused him. However, AXA didnt 
uphold his complaint that the valuation was too low.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response from AXA, so he brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator considered the evidence provided and came to the following view.
1. The £500 AXA paid Mr M for incorrectly telling him he couldnt keep the written off 
car was fair and reasonable. 
2. AXA shouldnt deduct 20% from the valuation. This is because, when Mr M bought 
the car, he says he didnt know it had been written off previously. 
3. The valuation should be based on a bespoke valuation from CAP of £3,275. This was 
because we were unable to obtain valuations from four recognised motor-trade 
guides. 
Overall, the investigator recommended AXA pay Mr M an additional £875 and honour a £50 
payment theyd agreed to make for the time it took to deal with Mr Ms complaint.
AXA didnt agree. They say that it is reasonable to deduct 20% from the market value of the 
car as Mr M didnt take reasonable care to establish whether the car had been previously 
written-off.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 October 2020 explaining why I thought Mr Ms
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said:
"In this case, there are two key issues  AXAs failure to tell Mr M he could keep the 
car and the valuation of his car when it was written off. Ive addressed these in turn 
below.
AXAs failure to tell Mr M he could keep the car 
AXA accepts they didnt tell Mr M he could keep his car. So, the only issue I have to 
decide is whether the amount of compensation they offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that AXA should compensate Mr M for the loss of expectation and 
inconvenience caused when they gave him the wrong information. However, AXA 
has apologised for this and paid Mr M £500. I also think its important to note that it is 
likely there would have been a significant outlay required to repair the car as AXA 
had estimated the repair work would be in the region of £8,500. Whilst it is possible 
Mr M could have repaired the car for less if he kept it, I think its likely this still 
wouldve been greater than, or at least very similar to the £1,700 amount he told AXA 
he paid to bring his replacement car up to scratch. 
So, taking everything into account, I think the £500 AXA has paid Mr M and the 
apology they gave is a fair and reasonable resolution to this issue in Mr Ms 
complaint.
Valuation 
Under the terms of the policy, AXA is required to pay the market value of the car 
immediately before the accident. After discussions with Mr M and viewing adverts for 
similar cars, AXA determined this to be £3,000. Ordinarily, wed look to the trade 
guides to decide if a settlement offer is fair. However, none of the usual trade guides 
we use produce a value for Mr Ms car. As a result, our investigator obtained a 
bespoke valuation. This shows the value as £3,275.
I think the valuation obtained by this service is persuasive. Whilst its close to the 
offer AXA has already made, it is a bespoke valuation based on the specifications of 
the car and actual mileage.
Based on this, I dont think AXA valued Mr Ms car correctly. The valuation should 
therefore increase from £3,000 to £3,275.
AXA then deducted 20% off the valuation because Mr Ms car had previously been 
written off. We generally agree its fair and reasonable for a business to make a 
deduction for previously written off cars unless the buyer unknowingly bought and 
insured a previously written off car having taken reasonable care to check this 
beforehand. In this case, AXA says Mr M failed to take reasonable care to check that 
it hadnt previously been written off. 
Having taken everything into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to 
deduct 20% from the valuation. I say this because I havent seen any evidence which 
allows me to fairly say Mr M had taken reasonable care to check if it had been 
previously written off. 
Mr M says he asked the seller about this and checked the log book, MOT certificates 
and V5C. But I dont think this went far enough. Mr Ms car at the time it was bought 
has been valued at more than £4,000 using the bespoke valuation method 
mentioned above. This would mean that, even if he paid £3,000 for it, this was 
around 25% less than its market value at the time. In the face of a significant 
discount like this, I think a buyer taking reasonable care wouldve checked the car 
using one of the independent tools available. AXA has shown that if Mr M had carried 
out an independent check this would have revealed the car had previously been 
written-off.In these circumstances, I dont think I could fairly say Mr M took reasonable care to 
establish the car hadnt been previously written-off. AXA is therefore entitled to make 
deduction to the total loss value, and I consider the 20% reduction they applied is a 
reasonable one.
Taking everything into account, AXA should pay Mr M a further £220. This is the 
difference between 80% of the bespoke valuation of £3,275 (£2,620) and the £2,400 
they have already paid him for his car. AXA should also pay simple interest at 8% a 
year on the £220 from the date they paid Mr M the amount of £2,400.
Finally, I note that AXA has already offered Mr M a further £50 for the delay in 
dealing with his complaint and I think it is reasonable that AXA honour this payment.
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached a final decision.
AXA has responded to accept the provisional decision. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision regarding the valuation and accepted my proposal in 
this respect. However, Mr M asked me to consider that after he asked to keep the car, AXA 
refused for no good reason.
The matter has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same response. 
I have reviewed the final response letter AXA sent in respect of this complaint, dated 16 
December 2019. AXA acknowledged they told Mr M he couldnt keep his car after it was 
deemed a total loss and they accepted Mr M shouldnt have been told this. Im sorry if Mr M 
feels my explanation couldve been clearer here, but his comments dont change my view 
that AXA accepted what they had told him was wrong.
Mr M has reaffirmed this was his main complaint against AXA, but he feels it has been 
overlooked. I dont believe this complaint has been overlooked, but I can understand that 
because AXA agreed they got this wrong Mr M may have felt I hadnt considered it. 
However, my provisional decision did consider the impact of this on Mr M and whether the 
amount of compensation they offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr M says he accepts the repairs to his car were £7,000 (£8,500 inclusive of VAT) but says 
that all the repair work related to the electric roof operation for his convertible car, and that 
he couldve kept the car without operating the roof. He also added that the only damage the 
accident caused was a crack to the bumper. I dont agree with this view as the full 
breakdown of the works needed to repair the car doesnt support this is the case. The report 
AXA received did include a breakdown for the cost of repairing the folding roof and I can see 
this would have been significant. However, I think AXA was entitled to rely on the report of 
the engineer that the roof needed to be repaired, along with other damage caused by the 
accident when making their decision whether to declare Mr Ms car a total loss.The terms and conditions of the policy say that AXA may choose to repair the car or pay an 
amount equal to the market value of the car at the date of loss. In this case, AXA chose to 
pay an amount equal to the amount of the market value as they considered the cost of 
repairing the car was uneconomical. Having seen the engineers report, I consider that this 
was a fair and reasonable decision in all the circumstances.
I have some empathy with Mr M and his view that AXAs refusal to allow him to keep his car 
meant he could have kept the damaged car and received a payment of £1,800. However, as 
I explained in my provisional decision, although Mr M couldve repaired some of the damage 
to the car for less if he kept it, I think its likely this still wouldve been greater than, or at least 
very similar to the £1,700 amount he told AXA he paid to bring his replacement car up to 
scratch. And it still wouldnt have fixed all the damage, for example, the electric roof which 
he says he would have chosen not to fix. So, I dont agree that AXA caused Mr M a financial 
loss in this regard above and beyond what AXA has been asked to do to put things right.
Even so, I remain satisfied that the apology and the £500 AXA has already paid Mr M for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused when they told him he couldnt keep the car is a fair 
and reasonable way to put things right in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc, trading as 
Swiftcover, needs to do the following to put things right in additional to what it has already 
done:
1. pay Mr M £220 to reflect the additional sum they should pay based on the market 
value of the car.  
2. pay Mr M simple interest at 8% a year on the £220 from the date they paid Mr M 
£2,400 until the date of settlement. *
3. pay £50 compensation for the delays in this claim already offered to Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA Insurance UK Plc, trading as Swiftcover, to take off 
tax from this interest. It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman