DRN-3968077
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) blocked payments made on his debit 
card and withdrew an offer of compensation.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M attempted several card transactions on his account which were 
blocked. He contacted to BOI, and he was offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. But Mr M didnt accept the offer as he didnt think it was enough. So, BOI completed 
a full review of his complaint.  
Having done so, BOI didnt think there had been a bank error. It said the transactions 
blocked on Mr Ms account had been picked up via its fraud alert system and that it had sent 
messages to Mr M so he could verify if they were genuine payments before they were 
processed. It added that Mr Ms card hadnt been blocked as other transactions Mr M made 
around the same time had been processed successfully. As a result, the £100 compensation 
Mr M was originally offered was withdrawn.
Unhappy that the £100 compensation had been withdrawn, Mr M referred his complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into. He didnt think BOI had acted unfairly in 
relation to the transactions that had been blocked. But he felt that as BOI had offered Mr M 
£100 compensation, the payment should be honoured.
Mr M accepted this, but BOI didnt. It said that the compensation had been offered verbally 
over the phone without any formal investigation being carried out. And Mr M had declined 
the offer. It added that when the complaint was formally reviewed it was found that no bank 
error had been made. So, it didnt think that compensation was due.    
The complaint was then reviewed by another investigator and, ultimately, he didnt think     
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said that BOI had blocked transactions on Mr Ms 
account in line with the account terms and conditions but Mr Ms debit card hadnt been 
blocked. He acknowledged that initially BOI had offered £100 compensation, but he was 
satisfied this was done prior to Mr Ms complaint being fully investigated. And, because Mr M 
had declined the offer, he didnt think BOI had done anything wrong when it reviewed the 
complaint in full. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said BOI had mis-led him about the compensation offer and that BOI 
blocked the payments despite it previously saying that future transactions would be 
successful. He added that the payment verification messages were often sent late.
The investigator didnt think this altered the outcome he had reached. He didnt agree that 
BOI had mis-led Mr M about the offer of compensation. He said if Mr M had accepted the 
offer, he thought it wouldve been paid. But as Mr M didnt accept the offer, he didnt think 
BOI had done anything wrong when it escalated the complaint for a full review as Mr M was 
dissatisfied with the service he had received. He added that he hadnt seen anything to 
suggest that verification messages had been delayed. 
Mr M disagreed. He reiterated that hed been offered compensation and he expected the 
offer to be honoured. As agreement wasnt reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to 
me to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed as I can see how strongly he feels about this 
matter. So, Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms complaint is two-fold. Firstly, it relates to genuine payments that BOIs fraud systems 
blocked pending verification. And secondly, that an offer of compensation was withdrawn.
Blocked transactions 
I can understand how frustrating it is when transactions are blocked. But fraud prevention 
systems are used by businesses to protect customer accounts from potential unauthorised 
access, and this is in line the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. 
While I appreciate in this case Mr Ms transactions were genuine, Im satisfied that blocking 
the transactions wasnt a deliberate or malicious act in any way. The blocked transactions 
were for the same amount, to the same beneficiary and made in quick succession, so Im 
persuaded that this is the type of situation fraud prevention systems are likely to pick up on. 
So, Im satisfied that BOI didnt act unfairly when these transactions were blocked. 
What this service would expect is that BOI should have processes in place to enable it to 
quickly verify transactions - blocked by its fraud alert system, with their customer. And here 
BOI sent messages to Mr M so he could verify the transactions. And when transactions were 
verified, they were subsequently processed. I note Mr M says some verification messages 
were sent late, but I havent seen anything to suggest that there were any unreasonable 
delays in this respect. And as fraud prevention systems are an automated, I dont consider it 
unusual that other similar payments made by Mr M would be blocked pending verification.   
   
Mr M has suggested that it wasnt just the transactions that were blocked but his card was 
blocked too. But Ive seen other transactions - made around the same time as the blocked 
transactions, were successful. So, Im satisfied that Mr M had access to his account and 
card. Overall, I dont think BOI did anything wrong when payments were blocked due to BOIs 
fraud alert system.
Compensation 
From what Ive seen, the main thrust of Mr Ms complaint is that BOI withdrew an offer of 
compensation. But as explained by the investigator. Mr M declined the offer that was made 
to him during the initial phone calls. And, like the investigator, I have no reason to doubt that 
the compensation would have been paid to Mr M had he accepted it at the time. 
BOI went on to investigate Mr Ms complaint in full which is what I would expect it to do given 
Mr M had raised dissatisfaction with the service he had received and had declined an initial 
offer to resolve it. But BOIs investigation concluded that a bank error had not been made so 
it no longer made the compensation offer available to Mr M. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen and the conclusion I reached above, I cant fairly tell the bank to honour its earlier offer. Whilst this complaint has been with us, I note Mr M has told us that BOI has closed his 
account. If Mr Ms wishes to complain about BOIs decision to close his account, he will need 
to raise this with BOI in the first instance. I make no finding on this in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman