DRN-4040486
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that the transfer value quoted by Rothesay Life plc (Rothesay) was much 
less than hed been expecting. 
What happened
Mr W has a pension annuity policy with Rothesay arising out of his membership of a former 
employers pension scheme. Mr W was an active member of his employers final salary 
pension scheme from 1 March 1998 to 23 December 2005 when his service ceased and he 
became a deferred member. Some years later the employers scheme was wound up and 
members benefits were bought out with Rothesay. So the benefits Mr W had in the 
employers scheme have been replaced by the annuity policy he holds with Rothesay. 
Various documents were issued to Mr W in connection with the winding up which started in 
2020 and concluded in 2022, including a letter dated 20 May 2020 sent to Mr W from the 
administrators of the employers scheme. It enclosed a guaranteed transfer value of 
£179,860.90. Further information sent to Mr W in September 2020 included a guaranteed 
transfer value of £215,067.50. 
The employer paid for members, including Mr W, to have advice about their options. Mr W 
had a telephone appointment in October 2020 with a financial adviser. Mr W opted for the 
annuity policy with Rothesay.
 
In November 2022 Mr W requested a transfer value from Rothesay. It was £123,858.72, so 
much lower than the transfer values hed had previously. Mr W queried the reduction with 
Rothesay. Amongst other things he was told, by the actuarial team, that market conditions 
werent as favourable as they had been.  
Mr W complained to Rothesay about the reduction. It didnt uphold his complaint. In its final 
response to the complaint Rothesay explained that Mr Ws pension was guaranteed and the 
transfer value represented the cash amount needed to provide equivalent benefits. The 
transfer value was based on various assumptions. UK interest rates and inflation had been 
volatile which had resulted in a reduction to the transfer value needed to achieve a similar 
pension on the open market. Rothesay said it undertakes thousands of these calculations 
each year. Each follows the same methodology and there was a robust checking procedure.
 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us. He said, having requested a 
transfer value in November 2022, he was shocked and distressed to see it was £123,858.72, 
a reduction of £91,208.78. His plan had been, when hed discussed things with the adviser, 
to take 25% of the transfer value as a tax free cash lump sum and have a flexible drawdown 
arrangement for the rest. Mr W said, when hed queried the reduction with Rothesay, it had 
been suggested the way in which the transfer value had been calculated may have been 
different to previously. And he was told that a large number of complaints had been received 
by former members of the employers scheme. 
Mr W pointed out that in its final response Rothesay had said the transfer value had reduced 
from £179,860.90 to £123,858.72.  But during the advice process Mr W had been told the 
transfer value was £215,067.50. Mr W said it was difficult to trust a business that had used in 
error a figure that was over £35,000 less than hed been told hed get. He suggested, having 
received the value of his (and others) transfers, Rothesay had then offered lower transfer 
values to maximise profits. Mr W also mentioned another pension policy he had with a 
different company which was worth some £80,000 in 2020. Its value had then dropped to the 
low £70,000s but had since recovered to around £91,000. Mr W wanted Rothesay to revisit 
the transfer value calculation and make good the value.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. In summary he said 
Rothesays explanation as to why the transfer value had reduced was reasonable and in line 
with current trends. As we arent an actuarial service, we couldnt review Rothesays 
calculation. But Rothesay would have a specialist team and there was no reason to doubt 
the calculations had been done correctly and in line with guidance from the regulator.
 
Mr W was very disappointed with the investigators view. Mr W reiterated his understanding 
was that Rothesay had calculated the transfer value differently and had admitted having had 
lots of complaints from former members about significant reductions in transfer values. He 
still didnt understand why his transfer value had dropped by about 45% when the value of 
his other pension had recovered and despite ongoing adverse market conditions.
The investigator was sympathetic to Mr Ws concerns but he maintained that Rothesay 
hadnt done anything wrong. There were further exchanges, including about exactly what 
information Mr W had received and from whom. Mr W maintained that something had gone 
wrong.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at Mr Ws complaint about Rothesay. Hes also made a complaint about the 
financial adviser. Some of what Mr W has said relates more to that complaint. Were dealing 
with that complaint separately so I havent addressed any of Mr Ws comments about the 
advice he received. 
Mr W has explained the effect this matter has had on him, the worry its caused and how he 
feels hes had poor advice and service and that he feels hes let his family down. Im sorry 
this matter has caused Mr W so much anxiety and upset. I do understand why hes worried 
that hes lost out. But, from what Ive seen, I dont think he has. 
If Mr W chooses to stay with Rothesay then the transfer value isnt relevant  Mr W will get 
the benefits he was always going to get and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
The transfer value is what Mr W would get if, instead of taking his pension with Rothesay, he 
decides to transfer to a different provider. Mr W has said thats what he was planning to do  
so he could take tax free cash and access his remaining fund flexibly. Taking tax free cash in 
return for a lower pension may be an option if Mr W remains with Rothesay. But flexible 
drawdown wont be  Mr Ws annuity will be a fixed amount, subject to increases for inflation 
(if any) and wont vary from year to year or dependent on Mr Ws income needs.
 
If Mr W does transfer, the transfer value Rothesay will have to pay represents the amount of 
money that is needed to provide equivalent benefits  that is how much it would cost the new 
provider to provide the pension that Mr W would be giving up by moving away from Rothesay. The transfer value has fallen because economic conditions mean it will cost the 
new provider less to provide equivalent benefits. The investigator said it would cost more to 
achieve the same level of benefits as are guaranteed with Mr Ws Rothesay policy. But I 
think the reverse is more the position. Rising interest rates generally mean improved returns 
on the underlying assets held by Rothesay to fund Mr Ws and others policies and so less 
money is needed to pay for the pensions Rothesay is contractually bound to provide. And, 
perhaps more significantly, annuity rates have increased and it now costs less to buy a 
pension income. 
   
If Mr W had transferred out in November 2022 the amount hed have got to put into his new 
pension arrangement wouldve been significantly less than hed have got before. But if he then 
used some or all of that money to buy an annuity (ignoring the fact that he was then too young 
to have done that) hed have paid less than he wouldve done earlier. A very quick look at 
historic and current annuity rates shows theyve increased very substantially during the period 
in question. For example, in 2020 a single male aged 55 mightve secured a rate of 3.3% 
whereas the current rate is 5.7%. In money terms that means a fund of £100,000 would buy an 
income of £3,300 pa in 2020 but £5,700 today, so an increase of almost 58%. Thats about the 
same as the percentage reduction in the transfer value (from £215,067 to £123,858).   
Effectively the reduction in the transfer value is balanced by the fact that the purchasing power 
of the transfer value is higher. I understand Mr Ws position is that the cash sum has fallen. But 
thats really only part of the story. The fact that hed get more for his money has to be taken 
into account. The transfer value aims to preserve Mr Ws position by paying an amount that 
fairly represents the value of the benefits hed be giving up by transferring his Rothesay policy. 
Rothesay has said anything issued prior to June 2022 didnt come from them. The figure of 
£215,067.50 wasnt provided by Rothesay but by the employers scheme. The same is true 
of the earlier transfer value of £179,860.90. If theres any error in how those figures were 
calculated I dont think it would be Rothesays fault. And I think it helps explain why, in its 
final response letter, Rothesay only referred to the lower value  Rothesay perhaps not 
having seen everything that had been issued by the employers scheme. But Ive used the 
higher figure for comparative purposes in looking at if theres anything to suggest the later 
and lower figure of £123,858, which Rothesay did calculate and which triggered Mr Ws 
complaint, might be wrong. 
I dont think comparisons with Mr Ws other pension plan are helpful. Although I havent seen 
details, I assume its a straightforward defined contribution plan which means the benefits 
the policy eventually provides will be dependent on how the underlying investments have 
performed. As Mr W has noted, theres been some investment volatility recently.
Mr Ws annuity with Rothesay operates very differently. Mr Ws benefits were essentially 
fixed when the employers scheme wound up, largely based on his accrued service and 
final pensionable salary. Those benefits have been replicated in the annuity policy with 
Rothesay and are guaranteed and not dependent on how the investments held by Rothesay 
perform. Regardless of how well or otherwise the investments held by Rothesay do, 
Rothesay has to pay out the same benefits. 
I dont know what Mr W will decide to do. His benefits in his policy with Rothesay are 
safeguarded benefits worth over £30,000. Before he can transfer hell need to take 
appropriate financial advice. That would be different advice from the advice his former 
employer paid for. I dont know what that advice will be (although its probably fair to say 
that, for many people, transferring and giving up safeguarded benefits, which are usually 
viewed as very valuable, wont be recommended). So I dont know if Mr W will ultimately 
decide to transfer and, if he does, what the actual transfer value then will be and if it will be 
closer to what Mr W thought hed be getting. I know Mr W will be disappointed. But I hope Ive explained why I havent seen anything 
which makes me think that Rothesays transfer valuation of £123,858 may be wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman