DRN-3841740
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way TSB Bank plc has handled her accounts with it. 
What happened
Miss G has several accounts with TSB including current accounts, a loan and a credit card. 
In the last 18 months or so, there have been a number of problems.
Loan account
In June 2021, Miss G took a loan with TSB. The direct debit for the loan was set up to be 
collected from the wrong account. A new direct debit mandate was sent out to Miss G to 
correct that, but it wasnt returned. The direct debit continued to be taken from the same 
account for a year or so. It led in part to the paying account becoming overdrawn and, in 
June 2022, there was insufficient funds in the account to meet the loan repayment on time. 
Although Miss G made arrangements to pay the instalment a few days later, a late payment 
marker was placed on her credit file. The paying account remained overdrawn. 
Standing order problem
Miss G had a monthly standing order to transfer £50 between two accounts. The payment 
went through correctly on 26 July and 26 August 2022 but failed on 26 September 2022. 
There was sufficient money in the paying account to meet it. 
Credit Card Limit
After speaking to a credit reference agency regarding her credit score, Miss G was informed 
that a higher credit limit would improve her score. So Miss G applied to TSB for an increase 
to her £1,000 limit. TSB reviewed her account and refused the increase, instead reducing 
her limit to £500.
Miss G complained to TSB about the above issues. She said they were having a detrimental 
effect on her mental and physical health as well as her finances. TSB looked into each 
complaint. 
Loan account
In July 2022, a new direct debit mandate was completed, and the loan payments are now 
being made from the correct account. 
In October 2022, TSB said it would amend Miss Gs credit file to remove the late payment 
marker and any subsequent arrears. It explained this would be included in its update to the 
credit reference agencies scheduled for November. 
TSB paid £600 to the account Miss G had been making the loan payments from. This had 
the effect of repaying the overdrawn balance on the account. 
Standing order problem
TSB has been unable to explain why the standing order didnt go through. It apologised to 
Miss G and paid her £100 compensation.
Credit Card Limit
TSB said following a review of her application it felt a £500 limit was more appropriate for 
Miss Gs circumstances. It said the terms and conditions of the account allowed TSB to 
increase or decrease credit limits, so it hadnt done anything wrong. Ultimately however, it 
took the decision to reinstate Miss Gs credit limit to £1,000. 
After considering the three complaints Miss G had raised together, TSB offered to refund 
£44.97 representing three months worth of subscriptions shed paid to a credit reference 
agency. 
As Miss G was unhappy with TSBs responses, she referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said it hadnt been wrong for TSB to record the late payment 
marker it did as the payment was made late. But he noted the bank had agreed to remove 
the marker anyway and had paid £600 to clear the overdraft on the paying account as an 
apology. 
Our investigator acknowledged there appeared to be no explanation for the problem with the 
standing order, and said he felt the apology and £100 offered for that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And he said TSB was entitled to decide what level of credit it was prepared 
to extend to its customers but noted that the bank had reinstated Miss Gs credit limit when 
she complained. Overall, he acknowledged the impact the banks errors had had on Miss G 
but felt the total compensation of £744.97 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss G didnt accept what our investigator said. She said he hadnt considered that following 
a phone call with her representative, TSB wrote to her saying it had offered a further £300 
compensation during the call, but the representative had declined this. Miss G said her 
representative had told her the offer made was a further £400, but that it was refused 
anyway. Miss G felt the bank and this service hadnt properly considered the impact these 
problems had on her health.
As there was no agreement, Miss Gs complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues leading to this complaint are now resolved, in that Miss Gs credit file has been 
updated, her credit limit reinstated and an apology for the standing order not being 
processed has been given. So there is no need for me to comment further on those points. 
What I need to decide is what a reasonable resolution would be for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss G by the actions of TSB.  
Money is a blunt instrument when it comes to putting right distress and inconvenience  no 
amount of money can truly ever make up for distress caused when things go wrong. But an 
award of money is the only tangible thing I can deliver for Miss G. I do understand the 
distress caused to her when she discovered a late payment marker had been registered on 
her credit file, and the other problems that occurred after that. Unfortunately mistakes happen, but what is important is that when they do, businesses 
acknowledge them and put things right for the consumer as quickly as possible. When 
assessing an award for compensation, we take into account whether a mistake or mistakes 
were made, the impact of them on the consumer and how quickly they are put right once the 
mistake is brought to the attention of the business. To put things right, as a first step, Id 
expect a business to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had the 
mistake not been made.
In this instance, there were some mistakes made in that the direct debit for Miss Gs loan 
was set up on the wrong account and a standing order between two of her accounts with 
TSB wasnt paid. But I agree with our investigator that TSB didnt make a mistake in 
recording the late payment on Miss Gs credit file (the payment was made late after all) and I 
cant reasonably say the bank was wrong to reduce her credit limit  its entitled to make that 
decision.
Miss G was aware the direct debit was being taken from the wrong account  she was 
making transfers to cover it for almost a year. She could have arranged for it to be amended 
at any time in that period. Once a new, completed mandate was provided to TSB, I can see 
it switched the direct debit within a few days as Id expect.
TSB cant explain what went wrong with the standing order, but quickly apologised when 
Miss G complained about it and offered her compensation. Again, Id expect that.
If these mistakes hadnt been made, I dont think Miss Gs position will have been greatly 
different from that in which she finds herself now. Its possible the loan payment might not 
have been missed so shed not have suffered the distress and inconvenience of trying to get 
that marker removed. But the bank did agree to remove it and did so in a reasonable time 
after the problem was brought to its attention. Ive seen no evidence that shes financially 
worse off in anyway following the events outlined.
I have listened to the phone call Miss G has referred to in which she says her representative 
was offered a further £400. The call lasted around an hour, and I think the advisor listened 
patiently to the representative but was given little opportunity to speak. Towards the end of 
the call, the advisor offered to round the total compensation paid up to £1,000. There was no 
mention of a figure of £400 in the conversation. As TSB had offered £700 in compensation 
(plus a reimbursement of £44.97), I think the figure of £300 given in the follow up letter was 
correct.
TSB has paid off Miss Gs overdraft of £600, paid £100 in compensation and £44.97 for her 
credit file subscription. And it offered a further £300 during the call with the representative, 
which brings the total package of payments to £1,044.97. This is more than I would normally 
award in similar circumstances, but as TSB has been prepared to make the offer, I think its 
a fair and reasonable way to resolve things.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as TSB Bank plc has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman