DRN-1307623
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim under 
her car insurance policy.   
What happened
In November 2018, Miss Bs car was vandalised, and her window was smashed. A window 
repair firm attended, but they said they couldnt repair the glass because the damage 
extended to the electrics. So Miss B made a claim on her car insurance policy. 
UKI arranged for the window to be repaired by an approved garage. But after the car had 
been returned, Miss B said the window didnt open or close. The garage has said they didnt 
repair the electrics as these werent damaged as part of the vandalism.
Miss B raised a complaint. So UKI arranged for an independent inspection of the electrics. 
The engineer said the wires were worn and the insulation had broken up. As such, it was 
considered to be damage caused by wear and tear. On this basis, UKI declined to cover the 
cost of the repair. But it offered £50 compensation as it acknowledges it couldve better 
managed Miss Bs expectations.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said UKI were entitled to rely on 
independent expert advice. And without an expert report saying otherwise, he was 
persuaded the damage to the electrics was wear and tear. As the policy doesnt cover wear 
and tear or general maintenance, he said he couldnt fairly ask UKI to pay the claim. 
Miss B disagrees. She says she was led to believe the electrics would be covered and it took 
several months to be told otherwise. So she thinks UKI should pay for the repair as part of 
her claim. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs car insurance policy covers damage caused by vandalism. But it specifically 
excludes loss or damage caused by wear and tear. UKI arent mechanics. And neither are 
we. So Id expect to see a report from an expert on the damage before a decision is made. 
I can see that the initial garage didnt repair the electrics as they were of the professional 
opinion the electrics hadnt been damaged as part of the vandalism. And following the 
complaint, an independent engineers report was obtained which says the wires were worn 
and the insulation broken up. So Im satisfied UKI had sufficient expert advice that the 
damage to the electrics wouldnt fall under the policy terms.I appreciate Miss B feels that her expectations werent managed. But as Ive explained, UKI 
arent mechanics. So I dont think it was able to say what parts of the damage would be 
covered and what would be considered wear and tear until the garage had assessed it. 
The garage said they explained this to Miss B. But she says she wasnt told until several 
months later that this damage wasnt covered. Whilst I can appreciate how frustrating that 
wouldve been, I dont think that means UKI should pay for damage that isnt covered under 
Miss Bs policy. I think its reasonable that some compensation is paid, as UKI didnt manage 
Miss Bs expectations and Im satisfied £50 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman