DRN-3619675
The complaint
Mr T complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he was tricked into 
transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
A friend introduced Mr T to an online scheme which involved carrying out tasks to earn 
money. 
He made a number of investments into this scheme, using his Wise account, between 7 and 
12 February 2022. In total he invested £11,600, of which £2,000 was recovered by Wise and 
returned to him.
After the online scheme became inaccessible to Mr T, he reported the matter to Wise.
It said that as hed carried out the transactions himself he was responsible for them.
Mr T, through a representative, referred the matter to our service. He argued that the 
transactions which took place were so out of character and unusual that Wise ought to have 
intervened before allowing them to proceed.
The matter was referred to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They didnt think the disputed activity was remarkable enough for Wise to have 
questioned the payments. They also questioned whether any intervention would have made 
a difference to Mr Ts decision to proceed with the transactions.
Mr Ts representatives disagreed. They pointed to the fact that most of the payments were 
twice as large as any others which had recently taken place on Mr Ts account, there were 
multiple payments totalling over £10,000 and that, in their view, the activity matched a known 
pattern of fraud.
They also argued that, had there been an intervention, Wise ought to have found the fact 
that Mr T was paying to take part in the scheme very suspicious.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr T authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ts Wise statements for a period of six months before the scam took place. 
I can see that Mr T regularly receives payments and tops up the account, either to fund his 
everyday spending or, seemingly, to make specific payments. 
For example, in January 2022, Mr T received a £1,000 payment from one of the accounts 
that was used to fund the fraudulent transactions and he immediately paid out the same 
amount to a third party. Two days later he received another £1,000 into the account, paid out 
half of that money to a third party and kept the rest for general spending. It also appears that 
Mr T often makes payments to new or occasional payees. So, the disputed payments 
followed largely the same pattern as previous transactions with each payment funded by a 
credit to the account.
While I accept that the amounts of the payments are higher than had previously been made, 
I need to take into account the difficult balance that Wise needs to achieve between 
protecting customers from financial harm and not unduly hindering genuine transactions. 
Taking that into account, I dont think the size of the payments was sufficient to cause Wise 
concern. 
Ive also considered the fact that, by the time Mr T came to make three payments totalling 
£5,600 on 12 February 2022, he was paying an existing (albeit recently created) payee. 
While this activity was, perhaps, developing into a concerning pattern, I dont think it had 
reached the point where Wise ought to have asked further questions.
Overall, I dont think that the disputed activity that takes place in February 2022 is sufficiently 
different from other activity on the account that Wise ought to have been concerned about it 
and taken further action before allowing the payments to proceed..
Ive also looked at Wises attempts to recover Mr Ts funds. I requested further information 
from Wise and it has informed me that, in addition to the £2,000 already recovered, a further 
£7,213 has now been recovered from a third-party firm and returned to Mr T. Im satisfied 
that Wise made reasonable efforts to recover his money and Im pleased that this amount 
has now been returned, though I recognise that it will still be disappointing for Mr T not to 
have his full funds returned. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman