DRN-3828652
The complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited, trading as AXA Self Investor 
(Elevate) caused delays in the transfer of his ISA to another provider. He says when he 
called Elevate it had no record of a transfer, even though it had been requested. He said 
hes been caused considerable distress and spent time trying to find out what was 
happening.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr S decided to transfer his ISA to a new provider, who Ill refer to as A. 
He instructed A and by 19 October a transfer request had been sent to Elevate. He says A 
kept him informed of progress but, on 2 November, it told him Elevate hadnt provided 
confirmation of the transfer and that Mr S should contact Elevate. When he phoned he says 
he was told there was no record of a transfer request. It was only after he asked for the 
matter to be escalated that Elevate confirmed they had received contact from A.
Elevate said it provided a valuation to A on 6 October and, again, on 18 October but it didnt 
receive As acceptance of the transfer so it couldnt proceed. It explained there was a 
problem with the electronic transfer request, and it was agreed A would request the transfer 
by post. When Elevate sent its response to Mr Ss complaint on 25 November, it was still 
waiting to receive signed transfer forms.
When Mr S referred his complaint to us, the transfer hadnt been completed. He continued to 
chase Elevate and A to try to progress matters. He received confirmation that the transfer 
had been completed on 23 February 2022, but one of his funds was showing in his ISA with 
A, as well as in his ISA with Elevate. This was resolved on 2 March 2022  around five 
months after Mr S had originally given instructions.
Our investigator concluded that Elevate had everything it needed to proceed with the 
transfer by 1 December. And he noted that the government website says that ISA transfers 
should take no longer than 30 calendar days. The investigator acknowledged the delays 
werent entirely due to Elevate and that there were some complexities involved in the 
transfer. But he concluded Elevate could have done more to ensure the transfer was 
completed in January and that the delay caused Mr S unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience. He thought Elevate should pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Elevate didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The delay was caused by A and the various fund managers.
It couldnt proceed with the transfer until it received instructions for one of the funds 
which was not common share class. It didnt receive sale instructions until 24 December, 
and this is when the clock should start ticking, not 1 December.
For the last fund to be transferred, the fund manager gave it wrong information. The fund 
manager had all that was needed to transfer the fund on 11 February, but it wrongly said 
it didnt have a stock transfer form. It was only on 23 February that the fund manager 
said it had all it needed and had already processed the re-registration of the units. 
The governments 30-day timescale is unrealistic for complex transfers and doesnt take 
account of matters outside of Elevates control.
Taking into account bank holidays, the transfer was completed in 35 working days which 
was reasonable
It explained to Mr S why there was some complexity in the transfer process, and the 
reason for the delays.
It didnt cause the delays so it shouldnt be required to compensate Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
The wording on the government website about ISA transfers says that transfer should take 
no longer than 30 calendar days. I accept there will be some circumstances where this may 
not be possible. And I also accept that during a transfer there are actions required by other 
parties, which may cause delays, and which are largely out of the businesss control.
In the particular circumstances here, Ive taken into account that there were some 
complexities with the transfer. And that there were some actions taken by A and the fund 
managers which were out of Elevates direct control.
But I need to decide whether Elevate treated Mr S fairly and reasonably and, in particular, if 
it reasonably did enough to progress the transfer of Mr Ss ISA to A. Im not going to repeat 
the detailed timeline of what happened, but I think there were some stages in that timeline 
when Elevate could have done more to progress the transfer more quickly. And some 
occasions when it could have provided better service to Mr S. For example:
When Mr S phoned Elevate on 2 November to ask about the progress of the transfer, he 
was told it didnt have a record of a transfer request. Whilst Elevate has explained why 
this wasnt showing in its records, this obviously caused Mr S some concern. I find its 
reasonable that Elevate should have been in a position to tell Mr S that it was in 
communication with A, and what the current position was, rather than Mr S having to wait 
until the following day to find out.
During December, Elevate was waiting for instructions on one of the funds which couldnt 
be transferred. Mr S told Elevate on 13 December that he had given instructions to A to 
sell the fund. Elevate hadnt received these instructions. Whilst it was As responsibility to 
send the instructions to Elevate, Elevate knew Mr S was anxious about the time being 
taken to complete the transfer. But Elevate didnt contact A to ask about these 
instructions until 22 December. I find it couldve reasonably contacted A on, or very shortly after 13 December, which would have prevented a delay of around nine calendar 
days.
Elevate says further checks were completed on 30 December, but then nothing seems to 
have happened, other than some emails between departments, until 11 January when 
seven funds were transferred.  and that seems to be in response to Mr S getting in 
touch again. Whilst this was partly over the festive period, I think the funds most likely 
could have been transferred earlier than 11 January. And its disappointing that it 
seemed to require Mr S to make contact before this happened.
From around 15 January to 28 January, further funds were transferred. Whilst Elevate 
was reliant on the individual fund managers to re-register the funds, I can see that 
internally staff in Elevate were asking the transfer team for urgent updates. I think the 
transfer team could reasonably have been in more regular contact with the remaining 
fund managers to ensure the transfers took place as quickly as possible, bearing in mind 
the delays that had already occurred. I can see more regular contact was made with the 
last remaining fund manager during February.
For these reasons I think there were opportunities where Elevate could have reasonably 
acted more quickly which would most likely have reduced some of the delay. Taking 
everything into account, I agree with the investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate this may be less 
than Mr S was hoping for. But I cant see that he made a financial loss because of the delay 
and, as I set out above, Elevate was reliant on the actions of others and it wasnt responsible 
for everything that happened here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited, trading as AXA Self Investor, 
should pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman