DRN-4118565
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was unable to access her HSBC UK Bank Plc online banking for 
nearly a month and she received poor customer service from them.
What happened
Mrs R says that she was unable to access her online banking from 10 August-5 September 
2022. As she was having problems with her secure key and she needed a larger key 
anyway, she ordered a new larger key, which arrived on 17 August. She then received the 
activation code on 19 August, but this didnt work. Mrs R tried to visit a local branch of 
HSBC, but it was closed down without her knowledge, so she had to travel 45 minutes to 
another branch, who sent her another activation code, but when she received this the code 
had expired. Mrs R says she received an email with a direct telephone line so she tried to 
get the issue resolved. It was only on 5 September 2022 that she was able to register online 
with the secure key. Mrs R made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Mrs Rs complaint. They said they told Mrs R that her existing device 
would be cancelled and once the battery had run out, there was no way of activating this 
again, and she would receive the larger device in seven working days. HSBC said that they 
informed Mrs R that she could collect a new device, which would have been quicker, and 
they were able to assist with her banking needs via the phone in the interim period or in one 
of their branches. HSBC said as part of their fraud prevention measures, they can't add a 
telephone number and immediately send out a new code, as their system will not allow it. 
They said her mobile number was added on 22 August, therefore they couldnt send out the 
new code for five working days. HSBC credited Mrs Rs account with £50 to recognise her 
spending a lot of time on the phone and for her having to travel to a branch to try and resolve 
the issue. Mrs R brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen any clear evidence as to whether the cause of Mrs Rs 
issues were due to an error by HSBC, or an error by Mrs R when activating the physical 
secure key. He said while Mrs R was unable to log into the online banking service for several 
weeks, there were other methods available to manage her account such as contacting their 
customer service team or using a HSBC branch. He said Mrs R spent quite some time on 
the phone with HSBC discussing her issues, which was more than a day to day 
inconvenience for her and £50 was a fair outcome.
Mrs R asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said the biggest issue was not being able to contact the internal banking staff 
of HSBC and it was only when she was given a different telephone number that she was 
able to progress the situation. She said she made several phone calls over a number of 
days, made two visits to a branch, of which one of them had been closed without her being 
notified of this. She highlighted another occasion where HSBC had a range of issues where 
some customers could not access their online banking for days and they were compensated 
with £50, so as she was without internet banking for weeks, then she should receive more 
compensation.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has mentioned the compensation that has been paid to other customers regarding 
issues with HSBC previously. But here, I can only look at what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint she has brought to us. Ive considered what Mrs R has said 
about the first branch she visited being closed down and she hadnt been informed of this. I 
asked HSBC about this. They told me that they would only directly notify a customer of a 
branch closure if they had used the branch a certain number of times within the previous 12 
months, so Mrs R wouldnt have met that threshold if she wasnt notified. They said they 
advertised in the branch windows and online that the branch would be closing. So I cant 
evidence that HSBC have done anything wrong here.
Ive listened to a number of calls which Mrs R had with HSBC about her online banking 
issues. On the first call she had with them on 9 August 2022, Mrs R explains she has had 
the key for a number of years and it is now finished. Mrs R asked for a larger version of the 
security key to be sent to her. The call handler explains it would take seven working days 
and she wouldnt be able to use internet banking during this time. And two security keys 
couldnt be active at the same time. So as Mrs R had said that her security key was finished, 
which would indicate that it didnt work, she would have always been without the internet 
access until she received the new key. While this would be frustrating, having to wait for a 
new key, the call handler offered an alternative to waiting for Mrs R to use her mobile phone. 
So Im not persuaded that HSBC did anything wrong by deactivating the security key when 
she indicated it wasnt working.
Mrs R has problems with her activation code on 22 August and has several calls with HSBC. 
None of the call handlers were able to resolve her issues. On a call at 16:36pm, the call 
handler updates her mobile number on the system. He tries to guide Mrs R through the 
process but hes unsuccessful. He says let me see if I can deactivate that physical secure 
key and what were going to do is, were gonna cancel the secure key registration. Mrs Rs 
physical key then audibly says goodbye. The call handler says hes going to cancel it and 
Mrs R says then she wont have a secure serial number and the call handler says yeah  ah 
right. It appears the call handler had changed something on the system as he said now 
thats deactivated, erm, Ive deactivated it on my side, now we just need to enter it again, 
Mrs R says Ive just been logged out.
The call handler tries to reset the physical secure key, but then he says what Im going to do 
is, Im going to be ordering you a new, a new physical secure key to your address and Mrs 
R says it takes 10 days doesnt it?, to which the call handler says ah yeah, it can take up 
to seven days. Mrs R asks the call handler if he has the capability to book her an 
appointment at a HSBC branch and she is told she doesnt need to make an appointment for 
small issues and they will be able to assist her. She asks are you sure? and the call 
handler says yes. 
Mrs R asks will they be able (to help me) because youre not able to help me and I cant see 
that unless its an IT person, they wont really know either what to do, would they? and the 
call handler says when you go down there, they can give you a new security key straight 
away. Mrs R asks if the branch give her a new secure key, would her activation code be 
compatible with the new key, and he says yes, it should be. Mrs R asks the call handler if 
he can put things right regarding what the call handler said about cancelling certain things 
on the system. The call handler says yeah yeah, Ill do that, I wont do anything, erm, so 
they will be able to, you know, do what they, you know, are meant to do, so dont worry, I 
wont mess anything up, and I wont do anything in regards to your system and Mrs R asks him to reverse things to before they had their conversation. The call handler says I didnt do 
anything on the system, so dont worry about anything. 
Im persuaded that the call handler inconvenienced Mrs R here. I say this because although 
Mrs R had suggested going to the branch, she only wanted to go to the branch if they were 
going to resolve her issue. The call handler told her that she could pick up a new security 
key straight away. But the branch didnt stock the larger physical security key, so if the issue 
was with needing a new key, then she could not resolve this by visiting the branch, and as 
such, she had not been given the correct information to resolve her problem. 
The call handler also confirmed he didnt do anything on the system/wouldnt do anything on 
the system, but the evidence shows he generated a new secure key activation code on the 
phone just seven minutes into the call (which would likely render her existing code inactive), 
but she wasnt informed of any ramifications of this even when she asked if things could go 
back to how they were prior to her having the conversation with him. And it is not clear why 
the HSBC system shows that a new secure key was ordered at 17:10pm  which wouldve 
been after the call where she was assured the call handler was doing nothing on the system, 
as this was processed against her wishes. So Im satisfied that Mrs R shouldnt have been 
told the branch could assist her in light of the actions the call handler took. 
When Mrs R rang from the branch on 23 August 2022, she asks to speak to the call handlers 
supervisor. The supervisor says he would need to send a code to her phone. He tries to get 
a new code generated via a text message, but when Mrs Rs husband tries this on her 
behalf, the system says they cannot generate a code via this method, and to try a different 
method. The supervisor then realises that a code cant be generated because the mobile 
number was only updated the previous day. He explains that due to this a code cant be sent 
out until 27 August at the earliest  although this was incorrect as it takes five working days.
I asked HSBC if they had the call recording that Mrs R had with HSBCs online banking team 
on 30 August 2022 - as she said it was this call which resolved her issue. I wanted to hear 
what they discussed with her which was different to the multiple previous call handlers had 
discussed with her. But HSBC could not locate a call recording on this day. Im persuaded 
that the reason this call was successful is due to her mobile number being entered onto the 
system a week prior to this call. As it takes five working days to fully update the system with 
the mobile number, then this is why the new code worked here. I know Mrs R believes that it 
is only due to a different number being given to her that the issue was resolved. But Im not 
persuaded by this. The separate telephone number is displayed on HSBCs website for 
online banking, so the telephone number was public. 
Its not clear why the original activation code didnt work. It could be because there was no 
existing mobile number on HSBCs system or a function with the security key itself which 
needed resetting. But I dont believe it is down to Mrs R doing anything wrong such as 
entering an incorrect username or password as its been suggested. I say this because it 
would be unlikely for her to be able to log into her account with no problems prior to 
requesting a new key, then to only have problems logging into her account once the 
activation code was issued to her, to then being able to log into her account again with no 
problems once a new activation code had been issued to her. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. I do think that on occasion, 
HSBC has let Mrs R down. I say this because one of the call handlers confirmed that the 
branch would be able to help Mrs R get a new security key straight away. But they dont 
stock the larger security keys which Mrs R needed. And he told her wrong information about 
not doing things on the system when he did, which could have also added to the issues Mrs 
R faced. At the very least she was reassured he did nothing on the system when he had 
taken actions on the system.Im satisfied that either the secure key or the activation code was not working as it should 
have been and the issue wasnt on Mrs Rs side. HSBC have acknowledged that Any 
activation code sent out should work, however I appreciate that sometimes things go wrong 
and the evidence suggests this happened here, otherwise one of the multiple call handlers 
that Mrs R spoke to would have been able to resolve the issue for her. So this 
inconvenienced Mrs R who spoke with multiple call handlers and her visiting a branch  
which they would never be able to give her the key she required. The branch staff were 
unable to help her, which led to the branch ringing through for her and then the call handler 
being unable to help her also. But as its not HSBCs process to get IT staff to speak to Mrs 
R then I cant say theyve done anything wrong by not having IT ring her about this issue.  
HSBC have already credited Mrs Rs account with £50 for what happened. But Im 
persuaded that an extra £100 to total £150, would be a fairer reflection of the impact this 
whole situation had on Mrs R. She had spent a lot of time trying to resolve the issue with 
multiple call handlers with no success. When she wanted to raise a complaint about this, the 
complaint wasnt raised initially, with the call handlers trying again to fix this despite Mrs R 
saying shes already went through this with multiple other handlers, which inconvenienced 
her further when the call handler couldnt fix the issue. If the complaint was raised when she 
asked, then she wouldnt have had the conversation about going to a branch either. On 
occasion she was told incorrect information which would have been distressing and Im 
satisfied that although she had suggested originally going to a branch, after all else had 
failed, she shouldve been told that they didnt stock the larger key, and to wait for the mobile 
number to be activated, which is what appears to have finally resolved her issue. So it 
follows I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mrs R.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC said that they didnt agree with everything in my provisional decision, but as 
a gesture of goodwill they would accept the provisional decision. Mrs R accepted the 
provisional decision, but she said she wasnt able to find the magic (telephone) number on 
their website and that HSBCs email address is not secure whereas other companies use 
secure email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R has been unable to locate the telephone number which resolved her issues on 
HSBCs website, I will ask our investigator to send her the link for this webpage. Once she 
clicks on the link, there is a section titled Get help with your Secure Key. Underneath this it 
says Online banking helpdesk. By clicking on the downward arrow to the right of the online 
banking helpdesk wording, it displays the telephone number which helped resolve Mrs Rs 
problems.
Ive considered what Mrs R has said about HSBC not having a secure email address and 
other companies do. But this would be a business decision for HSBC to make with how they 
allow customers to contact them, and not something our service can interfere with  even if 
other companies may provide this service. 
In summary, Mrs Rs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mrs R is disappointed with this, I hope 
she understands my reasons. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask HSBC 
to pay Mrs R a further £100 to total £150 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied 
this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs R a further £100 to total £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman