DRN-3327289
The complaint
Mr S complains that DSG Retail Limited trading as Currys PC World misrepresented a BNPL 
finance agreement.
What happened
Mr S purchased a television in store on a BNPL agreement. He says he was told that the 
agreement was a 0% interest free offer which came with a gift voucher. Mr S says he wasnt 
told that the interest free period was 6 months, or that interest would accrue after 6 months.
Mr S says he wasnt given any paperwork in relation to the agreement, nor did he receive 
the gift voucher. He says it wasnt until the following year when he received an email 
prompting him to log into a portal that he realised that the television hadnt been paid and 
that interest was accruing.
Mr S feels that the terms of the offer were misrepresented to him. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that decision, I explained that I didnt 
think there had been a misrepresentation because the terms of the agreement made it clear 
that if payment wasnt made within 6 months, interest would be charged from the date of 
purchase. I said I was satisfied that Mr S had been given the opportunity to read the 
agreement before he e-signed it and was aware  or ought to have been aware - of the 
terms of the offer.
When I issued my provisional decision, I wasnt satisfied that Mr S had received the gift 
voucher he was expecting. I said that DSG should pay compensation of £50 to Mr S to 
reflect the fact that he didnt receive the voucher.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to put 
forward.
DSG responded and provided information to show that it had sent a gift card to the value of 
£43.05 to Mr Ss email address on 6 January 2020 timed at 16.13pm. it explained that the 
gift card was for £43.05 and not the £50 referred to by Mr S because the terms of the offer 
were for 5% cashback by way of gift card and the total price of the television, soundbar and 
cables was £860.99.
Mr S responded and said he didnt think I had taken on board his comments that the 
salesperson didnt inform him at the point of supply that he would be charged interest.  He 
said the credit agreement wasnt explained to him. He said the gift card had never been 
viewed by him which backed up his comments that he had never received the gift card.
Mr S said he didnt think £50 compensation was fair because hed had to pay extra money 
for the television by way of accrued interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the additional evidence provided by DSG. Ive also taken account of 
what Mr S has said. Having done so, my decision about the agreement hasnt changed. I 
dont think theres enough evidence to say that theres been a misrepresentation here. I 
remain of the view that the terms of the agreement  including the six months interest free 
deal  are clearly set out and that Mr S had the opportunity to read these in store.
Having reviewed the information from DSG, I have changed my view about the voucher. Im 
satisfied that this was sent to Mr S by DSG. DSG has said that Mr S hasnt opened the 
attachment. This is consistent with what Mr S has said  insofar as he never viewed the gift 
card. On balance, Im satisfied that the gift card has been sent to Mr S by email. Im 
therefore not awarding any compensation.
For the avoidance of doubt, I think the £50 previously offered and sent by cheque by DSG to 
Mr S was a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman