DRN-3904057
Complaint
Mrs J has complained that Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo), amongst other things, unfairly continued 
adding interest, fees and charges to her loan after she lost her job and went into a debt 
management plan.
Background
Oplo provided Mrs J with a loan for £10,000.00 in May 2017. The loan had an APR of 
23.16% and a 60 month term. This meant that the total to be repaid of £16,240.20, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £6,240.20, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £270.67.
Mrs J made the payments on her loan up until August 2017. However, Mrs J didnt have 
sufficient funds, in her account, when Oplo attempted to collect her September 2017 
payment. Mrs J fell into arrears and she was never able to bring her account back up to 
date. She eventually started making reduced payments from a debt management plan from 
November 2017 onwards. Oplo accepted payments until August 2019 until it eventually sold 
the balance on to a third-party debt-purchaser.
In April 2022, Mrs J noticed that she still owed almost as much as the amount she was 
initially lent despite having made payments  albeit at just under half of the contractual 
monthly amount  for five years. Mrs J believed that her outstanding balance should have 
been lower than what she was being told. And as a result she made a complaint arguing that 
the outstanding balance on her loan was too high. Mrs J also complained that she shouldnt 
have been provided with the loan in the first place either as it was unaffordable.
Oplo didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint and as she remained unhappy she exercised her right 
to refer her complaint to our service. Mrs Js complaint was then looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. She didnt think that Oplo had irresponsibly lent to Mrs J. However, she didnt 
think that Oplo had treated Mrs J fairly and reasonably when she began having difficulty 
making her payments  in particular, she was concerned that Oplo expected all of the 
interest due on the loan to repaid even when Mrs J went into a debt management plan. 
Mrs J didnt disagree with our adjudicators view. But Oplo did. It said that all of the interest 
was added to the loan at the outset. So it didnt add any extra interest when Mrs J went into 
a debt management plan and it therefore didnt agree that it acted unfairly. As a result, the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
As the parties are in agreement that the loan wasnt provided to Mrs J irresponsibly, Im only 
looking at whether Oplo acted fairly and reasonably when Mrs J started missing payments 
on her loan. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about financial difficulties on our website. And 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Js complaint. 
The industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it considers 
to be a list of indicators which could indicate that a customer is in financial difficulty in 
Section 1.3 of Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). This section of CONC is entitled 
Guidance on financial difficulties and amongst this list of indicators  which is set out in 
CONC 1.3.1G - is where a customer is unable to meet their repayments out of disposable 
income, or at all, for example where there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills.  
It isnt in dispute that Mrs J contacted Oplo in September 2017 to explain that she was 
struggling to make her payments as she lost her job in July and she had only been able to 
find temporary work after this. Oplos notes also suggest that Mrs J also explained that she 
was behind on her priority bills. 
Once a lender is told, or it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we 
would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. 
The rules and guidance in relation to these matters is set out in section 7 of the CONC. This 
section is entitled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossessions). 
Some of the provisions in this section of CONC have been amended in the period since         
Mrs J contacted Oplo in September 2017. But in the sections below I refer to the rules and 
guidance that were in place at the time.
CONC 7.3.2G states:
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG] 
Principle 6, which is set out in the PRIN section of the handbook at PRIN 2.1.1R, states:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.  
CONC 7.3.4R states:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.5G contains examples of forbearance and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
1. considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges 
(for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be 
applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
2. allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to  
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
3. accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates that 
meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet 
the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to a 
mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
CONC 7.3.7AG provides further guidance and states:
1. If a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, the firm should, where appropriate:
(a)inform the customer that free and impartial debt advice is available from not-for-
profit debt advice bodies; and
(b)refer the customer to a not-for-profit debt advice body.
CONC 7.3.8G states:
An example of where a firm is likely to contravene Principle 6 and CONC 7.3.4 R is where 
the firm does not allow for alternative, affordable payment amounts to repay the debt due in 
full, where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the customer makes a 
reasonable proposal for repaying the debt or a debt counsellor or another person acting on 
the customer's behalf makes such a proposal.
[Note: paragraphs 7.16 of ILG and 3.7j of DCG]
Finally CONC 7.3.11R states:
A firm must suspend the active pursuit of recovery of a debt from a customer for a 
reasonable period where the customer informs the firm that a debt counsellor or 
another person acting on the customer's behalf or the customer is developing a repayment 
plan.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 3.7m of DCG]
Ive kept all of the above in mind when considering Oplos actions in response to its 
conversation with Mrs J in September 2017.
Oplos notes suggest that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs J at 
this stage. The income and expenditure assessment showed that Mrs J committed 
expenditure exceeded her income by well over £600. Mrs J told Oplo that she was having 
difficulty getting an appointment with the Citizens Advice Bureau. In response to this Oplo 
placed a 30 day hold on Mrs Js account and referred her to a debt charity that might have been able to help. Im satisfied that this was a reasonable first step to what Mrs J had said 
about her circumstances in September 2017.   
Mrs J then got in contact with Oplo in October 2017, before the 30 day hold on her account 
was due to end. At this point she notified Oplo that the debt charity she was referred to was 
in the process of putting together a debt management plan for her and provided the 
reference shed been given. Its worth noting that evidence of discussions with a charity with 
a view to entering a debt management plan is also on the list of indicators of financial 
difficulty in CONC 1.3.1G.
In any event, Oplo confirmed that it would await the paperwork from the debt management 
charity. And Ive not seen anything to indicate that it attempted to collect payment from Mrs J 
in October 2017. In November 2017, the debt charity contacted Oplo to offer a repayment of 
£128.47 and Oplo accepted this offer. Im satisfied that this was also a fair and reasonable 
response to the debt management charitys contact and offer of repayments on Mrs Js 
behalf.
That said, while Oplo might have acted fairly and reasonably by placing an initial hold on  
Mrs Js account and then accepting her offer of reduced payments, Im not persuaded that 
its actions in relation to Mrs Js ongoing balance were fair and reasonable. I say this 
because it took no steps to make any sort of interest refund or adjustment to account for the 
fact that Mrs J would be making substantially reduced payments going forwards as a result 
of her financial difficulty. 
Oplo argues that it added all of the interest that was due to be paid on Mrs Js loan at the 
outset. And as no interest was added after it agreed to accept reduced payments, through 
the debt charity, from Mrs J, there was no further interest for it to consider suspending, 
reducing, waiving or cancelling in accordance with CONC 7.3.5G. 
Ive considered what Oplo has said and its arguments in relation to this matter.
In the first instance, I want to be clear in saying that how a lender chooses to structure a loan 
and whether it adds all of the interest at the start or on a daily basis, is a matter for the 
lender itself to decide. And Im satisfied that Oplo was entitled to structure its loan in the way 
that it did. However, just because a lender adds all of the interest at the start of the loan it 
doesnt automatically follow that all of this interest is immediately due and payable.
I say this because there is a difference between what a consumer owes or may owe should 
a loan run to its full term and any interest that is actually due to a lender. The amount of 
interest that is actually due to a lender will depend on the capital amount outstanding at a 
particular time and how long the customer has had a loan balance with a lender. And just 
because Oplo decided to add all of the interest due on Mrs Js loan at the outset this doesnt 
mean that all of this interest was already due and payable at this time - the interest added 
was calculated on the basis that Oplo would be owed at least a portion of the amount 
advanced (depending on the amortisation schedule) for five years. 
Indeed, if I take Oplos argument that there was no interest to consider suspending, 
reducing, waiving or cancelling here because it had already been added to the balance to its 
logical conclusion, this would effectively mean that, on a loan where all of the interest was 
added at the outset, a customer would have to pay five years worth of interest even if they 
decided to repay the loan after a few months. And it would be plainly absurd to suggest that 
a customer in this position would have to pay, or even should pay, all of the interest due over 
the five-year term in these circumstances.Furthermore, Oplos arguments here also suggest that it is only customers whose loans 
have interest added to the outstanding balance as it accrues (whether on a daily or monthly 
basis) are entitled to a lenders consideration of suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling 
interest, as a forbearance measure, in the event that they fall into difficulty making 
repayments on a loan. 
Given a customer would have no control over whether all of the interest due over the term is 
added at the start or as and when it accrues, I cant see how it is fair and reasonable to 
distinguish between loans in this way when considering forbearance measures. After all, a 
lender has the ability to reduce the outstanding balance to reflect a waiving or cancelling of 
the unpaid interest. 
And I dont think that a lender automatically failing to consider such a reduction to the 
balance, in circumstances where it has concluded the monthly repayments are unaffordable 
and it is accepting a significantly reduced payment under a repayment plan, would be 
meeting its overarching obligation to pay due regard to the interests of its customer and treat 
them fairly in accordance with Principle 6. This is especially as it would mean some 
customers not being entitled to any interest relief, in the event of financial difficulty, simply 
because of the lenders decision to add all of the interest due on a loan at the outset, rather 
than as it accrues.
Equally, even if I were to agree with Oplos interpretation of CONC 7.3.5G (for the avoidance 
of doubt, I wish to make it clear that for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont), I think 
that the effect of adding interest in the way that it did and the impact it would have should 
forbearance become necessary, was a feature of Mrs Js agreement which would (if she fell 
into difficulty) have a significant adverse effect on her in a way which she was unlikely to 
foresee. 
And, in these circumstances, the implications of adding interest in this way ought to have 
been adequately explained to Mrs J so that she was in a position to assess whether her 
agreement was adapted to her needs and financial situation  as per CONC 4.5.2R and 
make an informed decision whether to proceed. Having looked through the information Oplo 
has provided, I cant see that it even explained that all the interest would be added at the 
outset let alone the potential implications of this.        
Oplos actions here effectively saw the arrears, which were continuing to accrue as a result 
of the reduced payments, being deferred. Yet if Mrs J continued making repayments at the 
£129 a month or so initially agreed under the debt management plan, it would take 120 
months to clear the £15,429.19 balance when the repayment plan started. Given this was 
double the length of the original term, Im satisfied that this made the term for Mrs Js 
repayments unreasonably excessive.    
So Im satisfied that there are a number of reasons why Oplos failure to consider a refund or 
reduction in the unpaid interest, given what it knew about Mrs Js circumstances by the time 
it started accepting reduced payments through her debt management plan, wasnt in 
accordance with the rules and guidance set out in CONC 7 and its overarching PRIN 6 
obligations.  
To be clear, Im not making a finding that a lender doesnt have the right to charge any 
interest as part of any forbearance measure. My finding here is that I would expect a lender 
to take into account the borrowers particular circumstances at the time it agrees to accept 
reduced payments from a customer - such as Oplo did with Mrs J here  when determining 
how much of the unpaid interest, if any, on a loan should be paid. I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable for Oplo to adopt a blanket approach of not applying a reduction, simply because 
all the interest was added at the start and before it had accrued. In my view, Oplos failure to consider a balance reduction (reflecting a refund of some of the 
unpaid interest) in circumstances where Mrs J was only able to make reduced payments, of 
less than half the contractual monthly repayment, meaning it would take ten years to clear 
the balance, wasnt fair and reasonable. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Oplo failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs J. 
And as this led to Mrs J paying interest and charges, which I think she shouldnt have had to 
pay at a time when she was making reduced payments because she was experiencing 
difficulty, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of Oplo failing to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. So Oplo needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Oplo needs to do to put things right for Mrs J
Ive given careful thought to what Oplo should do to put things right for Mrs J. As Ive 
explained earlier in this decision, there isnt an automatic requirement for a lender to waive 
all unpaid interest as part of any forbearance measure it puts in place. Nonetheless, I think 
that it was unfair for Oplo not to reduce the balance at all in 2017 and as it is now a number 
of years since then I have to decide how much of the unpaid interest should have been 
credited back to Mrs Js balance.
Mrs Js statement of account shows what proportion of her payments were going towards 
interest and what proportion of the payments were going towards reducing the principal 
balance. Our adjudicator thought that it was fair and reasonable for Oplo to retain the total 
amount of the payments that were going towards interest from the payments Mrs J actually 
made. 
She also thought it was fair and reasonable for Oplo to retain the amount of the payments 
that would have gone towards interest had Mrs J made her payments from September 2017 
to December 2017, because this was the earliest Oplo would have been able to default       
Mrs Js account. She thought all of the remaining unpaid interest  i.e. the interest already 
added but only due to be paid with a proportion of the repayments from January 2018 
onwards should be refunded and used to reduce Mrs Js outstanding balance. 
Given Mrs Js circumstances and weighing this against the challenge of trying to come up 
with a fair and reasonable interest reduction a number years later and in circumstances 
where this isnt an exact science, I think that the solution put forward is fair and reasonable. 
In my view, it strikes a reasonable balance between allowing Oplo to keep the interest that 
was paid as well as some of the unpaid interest, while also reflecting Mrs Js change of 
circumstances and Oplos obligation to have exercised forbearance when she entered a debt 
management plan as a result. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Oplo should put things right for Mrs J in the way I set 
out below.    
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Js complaint for Oplo to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Js balance so that the total amount of the monthly payments that 
would have gone towards interest from January 2018 onwards, according to the 
original amortisation schedule, if these payments had been made, are removed.   
ANDBackdating any default it has recorded or may wish to record on Mrs Js credit file 
to January 2018.
I understand that Oplo sold the outstanding balance on Mrs Js account to a third-party debt 
purchaser. So it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party concerned and 
make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mrs J an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction. It is for Oplo to decide which of these options to take.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mrs Js complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman