DRN-3194050
The complaint
Mr K has complained Metro Bank PLC has ignored issues around ID theft that have taken 
place on his accounts. He has disputed a large number of transactions going back to 2012.
What happened
Mr K opened accounts with Metro Bank in 2012. Over the period Mr K held these accounts, 
he held numerous different debit cards relating to these accounts. These were variously 
reported as lost or stolen. 
In July 2019 Metro Bank wrote to tell Mr K they were closing his accounts in line with their 
terms and conditions. The accounts were all closed 60 days later in September 2019.
In October 2020 Mr K brought a range of different complaints to our service relating to ID 
fraud and disputed transactions on a number of different accounts with different banks.
After Metro Bank had completed their investigation, they wrote to Mr K and confirmed they 
believed hed brought his complaint too late for them to consider. Their final response is 
dated 20 January 2021.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and the rules which govern what complaints our 
service can consider. She confirmed to Mr K that we had no power to consider his complaint 
about transactions he disputed more than six years before Metro Bank knew about his 
complaint. She also agreed with Metro Banks interpretation that the Payments Services 
Regulations 2017 and their own terms and conditions meant they didnt need to consider 
disputed transactions raised more than 13 months after the transactions themselves. All of 
the remaining disputed transactions fell into this category. She therefore wasnt going to ask 
Metro Bank to do anything further.
As Mr K didnt agree with this assessment, his complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator we cant look at part of this complaint. Our powers are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook on Dispute Resolution: Complaints. These say 
there are time limits for people to bring complaints to us. I am not able to look at a complaint 
if its brought to us more than six years after the event took place or three years after a 
customer would have known they had cause to complain.
This complaint is about transactions Mr K disputes. In emails to this service in October to 
December 2020 he confirmed those transactions were from 2012 until his accounts were 
closed in 2019.
Theres no doubt that transactions until end-October 2014 took place more than six years 
before Mr K first complained to our service. Our service advised Metro Bank on 29 October 
2020 that Mr K was complaining about transactions over and above those hed raised in a 
separate complaint.
The other test is whether more than three years has passed since Mr K knew he had cause 
to complain. When considering this I need to think whether Mr K knew there were disputed 
transactions on his account. 
Mr K provided 219 pages of disputed transactions to Metro Bank. Metro Bank has also been 
able to confirm to us that Mr K accessed his bank statements online and theres also 
evidence of regular contact between Mr K and Metro Bank from the time Mr K opened his 
accounts. Specifically he was reporting debit cards lost and stolen on an extremely regular 
basis. So for example in 2015 alone I can see Mr K contacted Metro Bank on 10 separate 
dates about cards for his accounts. I think its more than likely that if he was doing that, hed 
also have been aware of the number of transactions he subsequently disputed.
Overall I believe Mr K would have noticed within three years if he felt he had cause to 
complain. His statements would have shown whether there were any transactions he didnt 
believe hed made.
Im able to consider any exceptional circumstances which I believe stopped Mr K from 
bringing a complaint any earlier than he now has. Mr K hasnt mentioned anything to us. So 
Ive not seen anything which would meet that test.
Im therefore not able to look at the merits of any complaint about transactions that Mr K 
disputes up to end-October 2014. After that date subsequent transactions come into our 
jurisdiction under our rules.
Metro Bank has highlighted provisions within the Payments Services Regulations and their 
terms and conditions which mean they dont need to consider disputed transactions raised 
more than 13 months after they occurred. These provisions are laid out in full in our 
investigators view of 23 September 2021. I dont believe I need to repeat these as both Mr K 
and Metro Bank are aware of these.
Ive gone on to consider this aspect. Mr Ks accounts were closed without any further 
transactions in September 2019. Metro Bank was advised of Mr Ks complaint as I stated 
above on 29 October 2020. 
I believe all the evidence shows that the transactions Mr K disputes predate 23 September 
2019. I refer both to his 219-page list of disputed transactions and the emails he shared with 
us at the start of this complaint. This included an 8-page email dated 1 December 2020 
listing disputed transactions April to September 2019. The last disputed transaction in this 
list is a £10 cash withdrawal on 23 September 2019.
I am satisfied all the disputed transactions were raised with us (and subsequently Metro 
Bank) more than 13 months after they took place. I see no reason why Metro Bank cant rely 
on their terms and conditions, and the relevant legislation in this case.
I have used slightly amended dates in my decision compared to our investigators view of 23 
September 2021. This is not a substantive change and the overall outcome remains the 
same. Im satisfied this will come as no surprise to Mr K.
Overall I am not going to ask Metro Bank to do anything further. This final decision brings to 
the end our services involvement in Mr Ks complaint against Metro Bank.My final decision
My decision is that:
this service has no power to consider Mr Ks complaint about disputed payments 
processed by Metro Bank PLC up to the end-October 2014; and
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Metro Bank PLC and disputed transactions 
from November 2014 to September 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman