DRN-2979885
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a Premier Life Account (PLA) in May 2011 by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K had a fee free account with Barclays for several months before he opened the PLA, so 
he knew these were available.
Barclays has also provided a copy of the acknowledgement form Mr K signed at the time of 
sale to say that he understood the product and had received key information about it, and he 
was aware that there were other accounts including fee free ones available.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr K knew he had a choice whether to buy the PLA or 
not and he chose to take it out.
Mr K says that he only took the PLA out because Barclays told him it was the only type of 
account for someone that just came to the country and had no credit history.
While I dont doubt his honest recollections, I think his memory is mistaken. I say this 
because hed already had a fee free account prior to the PLA, and there is no mention in any 
of the information he received that having the PLA would create or improve a credit history. 
So, if this was the only reason he took out the PLA, I think its more likely than not that he 
would have queried this after receiving the information about the product and closed it once 
hed clarified the situation.
Shortly after opening the PLA, Mr K made multiple use of the benefits as described to him by 
our adjudicator. And he kept the account open for several years when he could have closed 
it at any time. So, in my view, I could not say the PLA was unsuitable for him or that he didnt 
receive enough information about the PLA when he bought it.
So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman