DRN-2313674
The complaint
Miss P complained about how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) handled a claim on her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P had an accident in her car in June 2019 when she reversed into a road and hit 
another drivers car. 
Covea paid for repairs to both cars as Miss P was held to be liable for the accident. 
Miss P was unhappy about Coveas handling of her claim because she felt that the other 
driver was speeding. And she thought Covea had left the claim open for too long, affecting 
her ability to obtain new car insurance.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Covea to accept that Miss P was liable for the 
accident because she was reversing into the road and the onus was on her to make sure it 
was safe. He thought it would be very hard for Covea to prove that the other driver was 
speeding.
The claim was left open because someone in the other drivers car said they might make a 
claim for personal injury. Six months later this claim hadnt been made so Covea closed the 
claim in February 2020
Our investigator understood that this wait was frustrating and inconvenient for Miss P but he 
thought it was fair for Covea to keep the claim open so that they could defend Miss P if the 
personal injury claim was made.
Miss P disagreed with the investigator and her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Miss P will be disappointed by my decision I find that Covea have 
handled the claim in a way that fulfils their agreement with her and fairly and reasonably. Ill 
briefly explain the key points, although my reasoning is the same as our investigator already 
explained.
We dont decide who was responsible for an accident, as this is the role of the courts. 
Instead we look at whether the insurer acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions when it decided to settle the claim. 
If an insurer has assessed the evidence of a claim to conclude that it doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of success in court and so doesnt think it had a strong enough case to 
defend, it may take over its defence and settle it. Covea has a term in Miss Ps policy that 
allows it to take over and settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need the agreement or 
consent of Miss P to do this. We think insurers can rely on this term as long as its fair and 
reasonable to do so in the circumstances. 
Miss P believes that the other driver was speeding when the accident happened. I think that 
would be very difficult for Covea to prove so they could defend the claim in court if needed. 
Miss P says that she reversed her car into the road and hit the other car. Because of this, I 
think it was reasonable for Covea to decide that she was at fault and to accept liability for the 
accident. So I wont be asking them to change the way the claim has been recorded.
Covea took about six months to close the claim after the cars were repaired, so about eight 
months in total after the accident. During this time, they were waiting to see if the personal 
injury part of the claim was going to be made. Although its possible Covea could have sped 
up the claim by chasing the other driver, I think this might have encouraged the claim to be 
made which in turn would have affected Miss Ps policy even more. I dont think its unfair 
that Covea kept the claim open for six months to be able to handle a personal injury claim if 
it was taken any further even though I understand it was frustrating and inconvenient for 
Miss P.
Because I think that Covea has treated Miss P fairly in the handling of the claim, I won't ask 
Covea to make any offer or do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman