DRN-2291299
The complaint
Mr F on behalf of business H complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) 
have unfairly voided his commercial policy and didnt accept a claim. 
What happened
Mr F is a director of business H and in June 2020 he applied online for a combined 
insurance policy for H to cover a restaurant. Later that month he made a claim under the 
policy for theft and malicious damage.
AIG looked into the circumstances around the claim and say they identified that Mr F hadnt 
disclosed a county court judgement (CCJ) when he applied for the policy. They say that had 
they known he had a recent CCJ they wouldnt have offered to insure H. AIG said there had 
been a misrepresentation and voided the policy from inception, refunding the premium.
Mr F says he didnt know he had a CCJ, and when he became aware of the debt he repaid it 
within 28 days. And the judgement has since been removed. He adds that the judgement 
was for less than £100 and the reason he didnt know about the debt was that 
correspondence had gone to the registered office rather than the business premises. He 
feels it is unfair to void the policy as hed repaid the debt before he applied to AIG for 
insurance for H.
In its final response AIG say that when Mr F applied online for insurance for H in early June 
2020 he was asked if he agreed or disagreed with a number of statements, one being You 
havent received a court judgement regarding debt (either as an individual or in connection 
with a business). It says Mr F agreed with this statement. 
AIG say enquiries at the time the claim was made in June 2020 established that a CCJ had 
been made against Mr F on 6 February 2020. It says had Mr F answered that he disagreed 
with the statement and disclosed the CCJ it wouldnt have provided a quote to cover H. It 
concluded that this was a careless misrepresentation, so they voided the policy from 
inception. And havent settled the claim.
Mr F was unhappy with AIGs decision and brought his case to this service. 
Our investigator felt that Mr F had given an incorrect answer when asked about court 
judgements regarding debt and had misrepresented the risk. And that AIG had acted fairly in 
voiding the policy and returning the premium.
Mr F has asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the claim are not in dispute so I will not detail them here. The issue I 
have to decide is whether AIG acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and relevant legislation in avoiding the policy. The relevant legislation here is the 
Insurance Act 2015 which sets out what is expected of commercial customers. It says 
commercial customers must give a fair presentation of the risk to insurers. This means the 
onus is on the customer to give clear information about the risk being insured.
Ive looked at the information Mr F provided on behalf of H when applying for insurance for 
the restaurant. He has answered that he agreed with the following statement:-
 You havent received a court judgement regarding debt (either as an individual or in 
connection with a business)
I find the question clear, and it is repeated along with the answer provided by Mr F in the 
policy schedule. The policy schedule sets out that it includes information you or anyone 
acting on your behalf provided before we agreed to insure you. Please remember that your 
cover is based on the information that you've given us.
Ive also seen that Mr F didnt agree with every statement on the application form. For 
example, he disagreed with a statement about there not being a deep fat fryer on the 
premises. And he was asked a supplementary question, and AIG accepted the response. So 
Im satisfied that Mr F considered the answers to the statements.
Ive considered what Mr F says about not being aware he had a CCJ as correspondence 
went to the registered address of one of his businesses, and that he settled the debt within 
28 days of receiving a call from the company he owed the debt to. Whilst I have no reason to 
doubt what Mr F says, the issue is whether Mr F had a court judgement, and he had. By 
agreeing that he (as an individual or in connection with a business) hadnt received a court 
judgement Mr F didnt give a fair presentation of risk when he applied for insurance on behalf 
of H. 
When there has been a misrepresentation the insurer is able to act as it would have done 
had it known all the correct information. Ive seen evidence that AIG wouldnt have provided 
cover in June had they known Mr F had a court judgement in February 2020. So its not 
unreasonable of them to void the policy from inception. 
If an insurer believes a misrepresentation to be careless rather than reckless or deliberate, 
then they are required to refund the premium. If an insurer believes a misrepresentation is 
reckless or deliberate, then they are not required to refund the premium. In this case AIG 
concluded the misrepresentation was careless, not reckless or deliberate and have refunded 
the premium. So, Ive not given consideration to whether or not I find the misrepresentation 
to be reckless or deliberate.  
In his response to the investigators view Mr F says AIG shouldve completed a credit check 
to determine if they would accept his proposal to insure H. It is for each insurer to decide its 
business processes, not this service. And its not unreasonable for AIG to rely on the 
information provided on the application form. Mr F has also mentioned he is considering 
legal action. This isnt something I can comment on but if Mr F doesnt accept my decision 
he is free to consider other options. I would encourage Mr F to seek legal advice before 
taking any court action. 
Taking account of all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that there hasnt been a fair 
presentation of risk. And had AIG known all the information about the court judgement it 
wouldnt have provided insurance. So, I find its fair and reasonable for it to avoid the policy 
since inception. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman