DRN-2072388
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society Limited (the business) 
closed his savings plans without paying out the full value. 
What happened
Mr H had three savings plans with the business, namely a guaranteed savings plan and two 
tax-exempt savings plans. 
The guaranteed savings plan was taken out in August 2015. The last contribution was made 
in January 2016, when Mr H cleared (by cheque) some of his missed contributions. 
Thereafter Mr H failed to keep his account up to date. 
I understand that in due course the plan lapsed, after the business was unable to collect 
payment through direct debit. I also note that Mr H was sent several reminder letters asking 
for payment. 
According to its terms and conditions February 2017 was the last date by which the plan 
couldve been reinstated but Mr H failed to bring the plan up to date.   
The first tax-exempt savings plan was taken out in June 2015, with a 10-year term. The plan 
was surrendered just over a year later, after the plan was made paid up for lack of payment 
of premiums.  
The second tax-exempt plan was taken out in April 2019. The plan lapsed due to non-
payment of premiums  despite Mr H being sent reminder letters. 
It seems Mr H asked the business to surrender all (three) plans after the business refused to 
reinstate the two plans  namely the guaranteed savings plan and the 2019 tax-exempt 
savings plan  that lapsed due to non-payment. 
Mr H is unhappy that he didnt receive the surrender payments on two of the products and a 
reduced value on a third. He thinks hes lost out around £900 paid in contributions.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The terms and conditions in relation to the guaranteed savings plan made clear that 
plans with arrears can be re-instated if all arrears are received in 13 months of the 
due date of the first unpaid contribution. It also made clear that after this it will not be 
possible to resume paying contributions.
Because Mr H didnt clear his arrears within the deadline, the plan couldnt be 
reinstated. In the circumstances the business hasnt done anything wrong by refusing 
to re-instate his plan. 
Because the first tax-exempt savings plan  taken out with a 10-year term  was 
surrendered after the first year, Mr H received less than what he paid in. 
The terms and conditions made clear that the plan was unsuitable as a short-term 
investment and that if Mr H didnt pay his contributions throughout his chosen term, 
he could lose some (or all) of the contributions paid.
In the circumstances the business did nothing wrong by paying Mr H less than what 
he paid in. 
The Key Features Document (KFD) in relation to this policy also made clear that Mr 
H would be paid at a reduced level if the plan was surrendered early. 
The second tax-exempt savings plan lapsed because Mr H stopped making 
contributions after two payments which meant the plan had no value. 
The terms and conditions in relation to that plan made clear that the plan will cease 
without value if less than 12 monthly contributions have been received. If more than 
12 monthly contributions have been received the plan will be made paid-up. 
In the circumstances the latter applied, and the business did nothing wrong by 
allowing the plan to lapse and refusing to refund the premiums paid because the plan 
ceased without value.  
Overall, according to the plans terms and conditions, Mr H isnt entitled to a refund of 
contributions, and the business has done nothing wrong by refusing to refund the 
contributions made by Mr H. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In response, he said:
Thank you for your email and for looking into my complaint. As much as I appreciate terms 
and conditions for the policy, it hardly seems fair if with my position NatWest had only issued 
me with a basic account and not with a cheque facility. My payday dates at the time of taking 
out the policies fluctuated due to being paid every two weeks. Im sure you can therefore 
imagine juggling when funds are available to honour their direct debit at times was 
challenging. In hindsight I probably should not have taken out the policy, however this was 
savings for my future. I would therefore appreciate if this could now be escalated.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the business has behaved 
unreasonably. 
It seems to me that the business did what it was entitled to do under its terms and 
conditions, in terms of allowing two of the plans to lapse and the other to be made paid-up, 
because it was unable to collect payment via direct debit, and Mr H failed to clear the arrears 
in time despite being reminded to do so in writing on number of occasions. I dont think 
theres any need for me to list the various reminder letters Mr H was sent in respect of the 
plans. The terms and conditions for each of the plans made clear what would happen if the 
contributions werent paid or if the arrears werent cleared in full within a certain period, so in 
the circumstances I dont think the business behaved unreasonably by refusing to provide a 
refund of all payments made. 
Unlike a traditional deposit account, the contributions were invested and there are also 
charges that applied, so Mr H wouldnt simply be entitled to a refund of the money that hes 
paid in. 
I appreciate the difficulties experienced by Mr H with regards to his payday, but it was still his 
responsibility to ensure that he had enough money in his bank account so that his direct 
debit commitments could be honoured. 
I note he says its not his fault that his bank issued him with a basic account and not a 
cheque account  so he couldnt pay his arrears by cheque  but I cant hold the business 
responsible for this. Besides I think Mr H had sufficient time and opportunity to get his bank 
account in order. 
In any case, Mr Hs issues with making payment  that led to the closure of his savings plans 
 doesnt mean that the business should now refund all premiums paid and it doesnt mean 
the business has done anything wrong by refusing to do so.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H would be guaranteed to receive a refund of all 
contributions if he stopped paying into the plans early. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman