DRN-3659596
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined attempted payments.
What happened
Mr B says in around May 2022 he attempted to make payments to two businesses which 
were declined. He says he could see the five transactions as pending but they were not 
processed. Mr B says he would like an apology for what took place and an explanation. He 
says the problem must have been on Halifaxs side as he was able to make the purchases 
using other methods.
Halifax says it authorised the transactions and didnt decline them. It says the issue must 
have been with the merchants. It also says it would have a record of blocking a transaction 
but does not here. Halifax says if a block was applied then the transactions would not show 
as pending.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifaxs records showed the transactions had been authorised and thought the 
merchants hadnt processed them. The investigator didnt think Halifax had made a mistake.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says that view is not credible that two 
separate merchants would not process the transactions. He says those merchants havent 
provided any evidence they were at fault and questions why they would not have tried to 
process the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place. I also accept there will be unanswered questions, as we do not have 
nor can we request the merchants records about these transactions.
I am sure Mr B appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and that they must have measures in place to protect their and their customers money. That 
means on occasions legitimate transactions can be blocked. Im satisfied that such blocked 
transactions generate a record and normally a code. A business would normally apply blocks 
to an account until a customer is spoken to in order to satisfy itself that the transaction is 
genuine. I make that clear as I cant see any such record of a blocked transaction on 
Halifaxs records, which I would have expected if it had applied a block to anyone of the 
attempted transactions.
I have also looked carefully at Halifaxs records of Mr Bs account and can see that the 
attempted transactions are recorded as pending. Im satisfied that for Halifax to record the 
payments as pending must mean they had been authorised by it. So, I cant see any 
evidence on those records that Halifax had blocked the payments and the evidence I have 
seen about them persuades me on balance that it authorised them. I cant be sure why the 
payments were not taken by the merchants as I have not seen their records. But I think on 
balance that for unknown reasons the problems here were caused by the merchants and not 
Halifax.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that Halifax was at fault for the payments not being processed. 
I think that if Halifax had applied account blocks then it unlikely that Mr B could have 
continued to use his account card until such blocks were removed. Im satisfied that Mr B 
was able to use his account without speaking to Halifax which I think means it didnt apply 
any account restrictions. I have made clear that I accept Mr B will have unanswered 
questions that this service cant answer or seek the answers to them. But this now brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman